Skip to main content Iowa State University Department of World Languages and Cultures Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home Admissions Admissions Future Students Visit Scholarships Apply Find out how you'll make it to ISU Academics Academics Programs We Offer Anthropology Graduate Program Forensics Graduate Certificate Languages and Cultures for Professions Program Advising Placement Exams+ Study Abroad Internships for Credit Language Studies Resource Center Course Offerings Discover the world, home and abroad. Info for… Info for... Students - Language Studies Resource Center (LSRC) Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Giving to WLC Hopefully we covered it all! About About Who We Are Strategic Plan (PDF) Directory News Contact Us (email) We think we're pretty neat- don't you? Find your Summer or Fall courses. Fall and Summer Classes Get just the right placement Find out what class you should take first Pair WLC with the Professions See if LCP is right for you Looking to explore? Check out all we have to offer Previous Next Home “&” isn’t just part of our name. A degree with us adds more to your future. We are the “&” that takes your life down paths you never even dreamed of. Engineering & Spanish bridges; History & German greats; Apparel design & Hong Kong haute couture; Global resource systems & Central American ecosystems. The possibilities are endless! See how we can help find your “&”. WLC resources abound Meet the LSRC Get great advice To advising! Study abroad Get me out of here! Welcome to ISU Meet WLC What skills can you gain from WLC coursework? Oral Communication Strong oral communication skills are key to the day-to-day interactions that you will have throughout your work life. Taking courses with us improves these in all languages, not just the one we teach you. Critical Thinking In our courses, students analyze complex global issues leading to improved critical thinking skills and a better & more just world. Cross-cultural Communication True and meaningful exchange requires much more than good grammar and solid syntax. We teach you how to navigate the cultural differences – which along with linguistic proficiency – will make you a true global citizen. Overall professor rating out of 5 by students Credit hours taught last year Disciplines housed in our department So you’ve made it to the bottom of our home page. That means you’re either looking to answer a specific question, or maybe you’re trying to get info to convince a certain potential student that WLC at ISU is the right fit for them. We want to convince them, too- check out this page for facts, figures and awesome graphics if that’s what you need! College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Department of World Languages and Cultures Department of World Languages and Cultures 505 Morrill Rd 3102 Pearson Hall Ames, IA 50011 Advising: 3220/3230 Pearson wlc@iastate.edu 515-294-4046 phone WLC Facebook WLC Twitter WLC Instagram WLC LinkedIn group Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...