Skip to main content Iowa State University Department of World Languages and Cultures Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home Admissions Admissions Future Students Visit Scholarships Apply Find out how you'll make it to ISU Academics Academics Programs We Offer Anthropology Graduate Program Forensics Graduate Certificate Languages and Cultures for Professions Program Advising Placement Exams+ Study Abroad Internships for Credit Language Studies Resource Center Course Offerings Discover the world, home and abroad. Info for… Info for... Students - Language Studies Resource Center (LSRC) Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Giving to WLC Hopefully we covered it all! About About Who We Are Strategic Plan (PDF) Directory News Contact Us (email) We think we're pretty neat- don't you? Spanish Spanish About Join a dynamic and caring faculty and study along with other motivated students. Map your future! Become a global citizen.See where your Spanish can take you! Courses Check out our full list of courses we offer on the ISU Course Catalog, and see this semester’s courses on the ISU Schedule of Classes. Spanish Catalog Schedule of Classes Outcomes The student learning outcomes linked below are based on the Standards for Foreign Language Learning in the 21st Century (National Standards in Foreign Language Education Project). This page outlines the standards of a collaborative effort of nine national foreign language organizations. These outcomes establish a context that defines the central role of foreign language in the learning of every student. The standards, as well as our program outcomes and individual course objectives, suggest a paradigm shift in foreign language education that focuses on students’ ability to use the language in authentic situations. Spanish Outcomes Degrees The Spanish program offers both majors and minors in our “classic” and “LCP” tracks. Our classic track spends more time on literature and media as well as civilization. Our Languages and Cultures for Professions (LCP) track highlights more current culture and business applications. LCP is only available as a second major or minor. Scroll for the Spanish Minor option when you get to the full listing! Spanish Major Spanish Minor LCP Options Study Abroad Get out of Iowa for awhile. The Spanish faculty offers or supports a variety of study abroad programs in Spanish-speaking countries across the globe. Whether you are interested in learning Spanish for the first time, perfecting your existing Spanish skills, taking innovative courses in English, interning abroad, or undertaking service learning projects, our faculty will work with you to find the best program to fit your needs. Biology lab work or fieldwork in Spain? Community service projects in Peru? Business and Engineering internships abroad? We can help you do that! And you can get Spanish credit! Students can select programs that are administered by ISU faculty and staff, or choose from programs provided by third-party providers. Valencia Cáceres Other Programs Valencia Head to the Mediterranean coast for our six-week program in the coastal city of Valencia! We offer coursework in Spanish, Management, Biology and even Engineering. Click below to see why nearly 100 students come on our program every year. To La Costa Blanca! Cáceres Take in the historic sites and beautiful culture during a semester in Western Spain. Cáceres is home to a beautiful old city and has connections throughout era after era of Spanish history. Get more information about our semester-long program below. On to the culture! Other programs While we don’t offer any programs through WLC to many Spanish-speaking countries at this time, we know there are lots of great programs out there! Head to the list of ISU-associated and -affiliated programs taught in Spanish below. ¡A viajar! Faculty Natalia Amorin Dawn Bratsch-Prince Celeste Chaves Xavier Dapena Julia Domínguez Chad M. Gasta Lindsay Giacomino Rachel Haywood Erik Ladner Marta Vessoni de Lence Megan Jeanette Myers Charlie Nagle Cristina Pardo Ballester Elisa Rizo Lucía M. Suárez Thomas Waldemer Julie Wilhelm About Courses Outcomes Degrees Study Abroad Faculty College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Department of World Languages and Cultures Department of World Languages and Cultures 505 Morrill Rd 3102 Pearson Hall Ames, IA 50011 Advising: 3220/3230 Pearson wlc@iastate.edu 515-294-4046 phone WLC Facebook WLC Twitter WLC Instagram WLC LinkedIn group Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...