Skip to main content Iowa State University Department of World Languages and Cultures Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home Admissions Admissions Future Students Visit Scholarships Apply Find out how you'll make it to ISU Academics Academics Programs We Offer Anthropology Graduate Program Forensics Graduate Certificate Languages and Cultures for Professions Program Advising Placement Exams+ Study Abroad Internships for Credit Language Studies Resource Center Course Offerings Discover the world, home and abroad. Info for… Info for... Students - Language Studies Resource Center (LSRC) Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Giving to WLC Hopefully we covered it all! About About Who We Are Strategic Plan (PDF) Directory News Contact Us (email) We think we're pretty neat- don't you? Classical Studies Classical Studies About Classical Studies engages you with the ancient Greeks and Romans and their influence on western and world civilizations past and present. Students pursuing either the Interdisciplinary Studies major or the minor in Classical Studies explore the myths, art, architecture, literature, history, religions and political cultures of the Greeks and Romans. You are also encouraged to participate in one of our summer study-abroad programs, Roman Italy: Building the Empire or The Archaeology of Greece to gain first-hand experience with Greek and Roman material culture. The major in Classical Studies fosters cultural literacy and assists in preparing you for a variety of business and professional schools—law and medicine are the two most commonly pursued by Classical Studies majors—or for any career requiring skills in communication, critical thinking, human relations, or problem solving. One year of Latin (two courses) is the foundation of the major and minor in Classical Studies and is also an excellent complement to students of modern Romance languages. Studying Latin at ISU builds linguistic awareness and skills with strong transfer value to English and other modern languages. The ability to use English well and to communicate effectively in a given language are the two primary skills that prepare students to compete successfully in the job market at home and abroad. For information about Latin placement or the Latin exam-for-credit, please consult the Classical Studies academic advisors in World Languages and Cultures- for more information on our advisors click below! Meet the Advisors Courses Check out our full list of courses we offer on the ISU Course Catalog, and see this semester’s courses on the ISU Schedule of Classes. Classics Catalog Schedule of Classes Latin Catalog Outcomes The student learning outcomes linked below are based on the Standards for Foreign Language Learning in the 21st Century (National Standards in Foreign Language Education Project). This page outlines the standards of a collaborative effort of nine national foreign language organizations. These outcomes establish a context that defines the central role of foreign language in the learning of every student. The standards, as well as our program outcomes and individual course objectives, suggest a paradigm shift in foreign language education that focuses on students’ ability to use the language in authentic situations. Classics and Latin Outcomes Degrees Courses in Classical Studies provide background for students whose major fields of study or career interests include Anthropology, English, World Languages and Cultures, History, Music, Philosophy, Women’s Studies, law, medicine, material culture, political science, the life sciences and related fields. Students who wish to pursue an interdisciplinary major in Classical Studies should consult the Program Chair, Margaret Mook. Classical Studies Major Classical Studies Minor Study Abroad We don’t have any active study abroad programs for this year, but we will be sending a group to Rome hopefully in 2019. Check in below for updated information! ISU: Roman Italy – Building the Empire NOTE: Study abroad is open to every student, regardless of field of study. Discuss your plans with your academic advisor as well as study abroad advisors on campus to plan your journey. Faculty Alexander Hall Rachel Meyers Margaret Mook Jessica Moore About Courses Outcomes Degrees Study Abroad Faculty College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Department of World Languages and Cultures Department of World Languages and Cultures 505 Morrill Rd 3102 Pearson Hall Ames, IA 50011 Advising: 3220/3230 Pearson wlc@iastate.edu 515-294-4046 phone WLC Facebook WLC Twitter WLC Instagram WLC LinkedIn group Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...