Skip to main content Iowa State University Department of World Languages and Cultures Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home Admissions Admissions Future Students Visit Scholarships Apply Find out how you'll make it to ISU Academics Academics Programs We Offer Anthropology Graduate Program Forensics Graduate Certificate Languages and Cultures for Professions Program Advising Placement Exams+ Study Abroad Internships for Credit Language Studies Resource Center Course Offerings Discover the world, home and abroad. Info for… Info for... Students - Language Studies Resource Center (LSRC) Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Giving to WLC Hopefully we covered it all! About About Who We Are Strategic Plan (PDF) Directory News Contact Us (email) We think we're pretty neat- don't you? French French About The French culture and economy are among the strongest and most prevalent in the world, and France is increasingly a leader in science, agriculture, industry, technological innovations, and academic thought and research. French is a critical global language and the language of the future. When you study French at ISU, you learn much more than just the language. You broaden your cultural horizons, strengthen your cultural intelligence, increase your marketability, and learn to see, understand, and relate to the world from a new perspective. The ISU French Program offers the possibility of either majoring solely in French or combining French with any other university majors through a cluster of courses that focus on the language, cultures, histories, civilizations, literatures, and cinemas of France and Francophone countries. Check out this showcase of a few great French students to see how French could work with your degree! Courses Check out our full list of courses we offer on the ISU Course Catalog, and see this semester’s courses on the ISU Schedule of Classes. French Catalog Schedule of Classes Outcomes The student learning outcomes linked below are based on the Standards for Foreign Language Learning in the 21st Century (National Standards in Foreign Language Education Project). This page outlines the standards of a collaborative effort of nine national foreign language organizations. These outcomes establish a context that defines the central role of foreign language in the learning of every student. The standards, as well as our program outcomes and individual course objectives, suggest a paradigm shift in foreign language education that focuses on students’ ability to use the language in authentic situations. French Outcomes Degrees The French program offers both majors and minors in our “classic” and “LCP” tracks. Our classic track spends more time on literature and media as well as civilization. Our Languages and Cultures for Professions (LCP) track highlights more current culture and business applications. LCP is only available as a second major or minor. French Major French Minor LCP Options Study Abroad There are many summer, semester, and academic year study abroad programs available to ISU students in several French-speaking locations, including Belgium, France, Québec, and Switzerland. Read through just some of the possibilities below and contact the appropriate representative. You can earn up to 18 credits! NOTE: Study abroad is open to every student, regardless of field of study. Discuss your plans with your academic advisor as well as study abroad advisors on campus to plan your journey. Please note that there are many more options for students of French to take French language courses and/or advanced content courses (literature, culture, etc.). For more information on these affiliate programs, students can reach out to LAS Study Abroad (lasstudyabroad@iastate.edu) or the Study Abroad Center (studyabroad@iastate.edu). You may search for programs here: isuabroad.iastate.edu & Click on ‘Programs’ to begin your search: search by country, city, or program name. France Belgium France Université Sorbonne Paris Nord: A 3-week summer program in Paris. Contact: Jean-Paul Taoutel Cathedrals of France: Religious Beliefs and Spirituality in Medieval France: A 3-week summer program in and around Paris.Contact: Jean-Paul Taoutel Students can contact the Study Abroad Center for additional programs in France. Grenoble Institute of Technology (INP): For students in the College of Engineering, the ISU Engineering International Programs Office coordinates a summer, 1 semester, or academic year exchange in Grenoble, France. Internship possibilities exist as well. Belgium Solvay Brussels School of Economics and Management in Brussels: A semester or year-long program. KU Leuven (College of Ag & Life Sciences) Exchange: A semester-long program for students in the College of Life Sciences and Agriculture. Faculty Melissa Deininger Neysa Goodman Guedeyi Hayatou Michèle A. Schaal Jean-Pierre Taoutel Stacey Weber-Fève About Courses Outcomes Degrees Study Abroad Faculty College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Department of World Languages and Cultures Department of World Languages and Cultures 505 Morrill Rd 3102 Pearson Hall Ames, IA 50011 Advising: 3220/3230 Pearson wlc@iastate.edu 515-294-4046 phone WLC Facebook WLC Twitter WLC Instagram WLC LinkedIn group Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...