Skip to main content Iowa State University Department of World Languages and Cultures Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home Admissions Admissions Future Students Visit Scholarships Apply Find out how you'll make it to ISU Academics Academics Programs We Offer Anthropology Graduate Program Forensics Graduate Certificate Languages and Cultures for Professions Program Advising Placement Exams+ Study Abroad Internships for Credit Language Studies Resource Center Course Offerings Discover the world, home and abroad. Info for… Info for... Students - Language Studies Resource Center (LSRC) Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Giving to WLC Hopefully we covered it all! About About Who We Are Strategic Plan (PDF) Directory News Contact Us (email) We think we're pretty neat- don't you? German German About The German program is designed to enrich the educational and professional qualifications of students interested in any field. A German major can stand alone as a field of study that enables students to participate – through language and in-depth study of texts, documents, and cultural objects – in both the contemporary life and the historical study of a major world culture. At the same time, the tools of linguistic and cultural understanding developed in a German major enrich students’ knowledge and professional prospects in any field, and the major is designed to be combined successfully across departments and colleges, from engineering and business to design and education. Courses Check out our full list of courses we offer on the ISU Course Catalog, and see this semester’s courses on the ISU Schedule of Classes. German Catalog Schedule of Classes Outcomes The student learning outcomes linked below are based on the Standards for Foreign Language Learning in the 21st Century (National Standards in Foreign Language Education Project). This page outlines the standards of a collaborative effort of nine national foreign language organizations. These outcomes establish a context that defines the central role of foreign language in the learning of every student. The standards, as well as our program outcomes and individual course objectives, suggest a paradigm shift in foreign language education that focuses on students’ ability to use the language in authentic situations. German Outcomes Degrees The German program offers both majors and minors in our “classic” and “LCP” tracks. Our classic track spends more time on literature and media as well as civilization. Our Languages and Cultures for Professions (LCP) track highlights more current culture and business applications. LCP is only available as a second major or minor. German Major German Minor LCP Options Study Abroad The ISU German program works individually with students to find study abroad programs that can best fit their academic, professional, and personal goals. Students have successfully undertaken a wide range of short-term and long-term study and internships in German-speaking countries hosted by a range of institutions. NOTE: Study abroad is open to every student, regardless of field of study. Discuss your plans with your academic advisor as well as study abroad advisors on campus to plan your journey. Affiliate Programs For exchange programs and affiliate programs in Austria, Germany or Switzerland, check out the search results on ISU Abroad for programs with German as the language of instruction below. On to the results! For more information on study abroad as part of the ISU German program, students may speak with any German instructor or the WLC Advisors . Faculty William Carter Beth Martin Bethany Morgan Nurettin Ucar About Courses Outcomes Degrees Study Abroad Faculty College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Department of World Languages and Cultures Department of World Languages and Cultures 505 Morrill Rd 3102 Pearson Hall Ames, IA 50011 Advising: 3220/3230 Pearson wlc@iastate.edu 515-294-4046 phone WLC Facebook WLC Twitter WLC Instagram WLC LinkedIn group Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...