Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Liberal Arts and Sciences Online Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Discover Flexibility DISCOVER FLEXIBILITY! Online courses are an opportunity for students, near or far to make the most of their schedules. Whether that that means fitting in Student Club activities, doing an internship, or working on your degree from home. Discover Summer Not on Campus? Not a Problem! Take a little bit of Iowa State with you this summer! Discover Flexibility All Year! Your time is precious, make the most of it! Incorporating online courses into your Fall and Spring semester can provide you the flexibility to make your schedule work for you. Discover Your Minor DISCOVER YOUR MINOR! The College of Liberal Arts and Sciences offers a wide range of online courses that could help you earn a minor to complement your degree program. Coursework for these programs are available online and on-campus. A wide variety of online courses are available to apply toward these programs. For more details on completing these programs, talk with your advisor. Sustainability Minor Leadership Studies Minor or Certificate Criminal Justice Studies Minor Political Science Minor Psychology Minor Women’s and Gender Studies Minor Sociology Minor Not finding something to fit your interests? Review the full range of LAS minors and LAS courses for additional options. Discover Your Degree DISCOVER YOUR DEGREE! Have some college credit? If you are close to finishing your degree, we can help! The College of Liberal Arts and Sciences offers a variety of online courses to complement coursework you have already completed to earn a Bachelor of Liberal Studies. Our courses are offered in a flexible, online format so you can work on your degree from anywhere. Contact an advisor today to see how close you are! Learn more about the Bachelor of Liberal Studies. “Taking online courses has allowed me to work more hours at my part-time job while also going to school full-time.” – Marissa Borgerding Supply Chain Management The Bachelor of Liberal Studies (BLS) is a general studies degree in the liberal arts. It provides the flexibility to choose courses based on interests and goals. This particular program is a degree completion program aimed at students who have some college coursework. Up to three-fourths of the degree requirements may be transferred from accredited institutions. Students Online Courses Sustainability Minor Sustainability is often defined as “meeting the needs of today without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.” The minor in sustainability at Iowa State University is available to any ISU student who wants to further learn about sustainability issues affecting humans today and in the future. The interdisciplinary minor in sustainability exposes students to ideas and issues related to a sustainable, balanced and ethical future for the planet and its inhabitants. The minor is at the interplay between environmental, social and economic factors in improving the quality of human life within the capacity of supporting ecosystems. Coursework for this program is available online and on-campus. Below are online courses available to apply toward this program. For more details on completing this program, visit the course program page and talk with your advisor. Minor Courses Online Core Courses SOC/ANTHR/ENV S/GLOBE/MAT E/M E 220 – Globalization and Sustainability ANTHR 230 – Globalization and the Human Condition Nine Credits of Electives from Approved List: MTEOR/ENSCI/AGRON 404 – Global Change JL MC 474 – Communication Technology and Social Change M E 433 – Alternative Energy ENV S/ENSCI/MTEOR/GEOL 324 – Energy and the Environment RUS 375 – Russia Today WLC/M E 484 – Technology, Globalization and Culture GEOL/ENV S 101 – Environmental Geology: Earth in Crisis *This list is limited to online courses offered by Liberal Arts and Science Online. Additional courses that apply to this minor may be offered online and/or on-campus by other colleges. Sustainability Minor Check out the complete details for the Sustainability Minor. Talk to your Advisor for how a Sustainability Minor might be an option for you! Liberal Arts and Sciences Online Liberal Arts and Sciences Online 1328 Howe Hall Iowa State University Ames, IA 50011-2273 elo@iastate.edu 515-294-7470 phone Facebook Twitter YouTube MyState Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...