Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Exec Ed Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Lauder Institute Menu About The Degree The Community Diversity at Lauder Leadership & Governance News Giving to Lauder Contact Us Admissions How to Apply MBA/MA Applicants JD/MA Applicants Applying to Lauder? Consider these tips. Language Testing Dates & Deadlines Tuition & Financial Aid Admissions Events Visit Contact Admissions FAQ Admissions Portal: Class of 2024 Academics Curriculum Languages Immersions Summer Timelines Lauder Intercultural Ventures Language Immersions Culture Quest Global Knowledge Lab Faculty Graduate Group in International Studies Students Lauder Student Profiles The Jacobson Global Venture Awards Award and Prize Winners Career Guidance Leadership Immersion Internships Alumni Lauder Institute Alumni Association Alumni Profiles Alumni and Student Referrals Lauder Alumni Data Use Agreement Resources Africa Futures Conference Global Business Insight Report The Lauder Podcast Career Advisor Think Tank Additional Resources & Publications Staff & Faculty Administration Faculty Job Opportunities Lauder Inside Welcome to the Lauder Institute of Management & International Studies Look Globally. Engage Locally. Act Responsibly. EXPLORE THE LAUDER MISSION Lauder is… A pioneering program for aspiring global business leaders. Lauder students earn two degrees in two years: a Wharton School MBA plus an International Studies MA from the University of Pennsylvania.* Our innovative curriculum integrates comprehensive professional training with interdisciplinary coursework in international politics, economics, history, culture, and language at an Ivy League institution. Learn More » The Lauder Difference Our students have a global mindset fostered through extended international immersions and exceptional opportunities for study, travel, and career development worldwide. Our close-knit community is supported by the dedicated resources of the Lauder Institute, the active involvement of the Lauder family, and a highly engaged global alumni network. International – Immersive – Intimate – Interdisciplinary – Inclusive – Innovative – Impactful Why Lauder Connect with us Learn more about Lauder from our Admissions Team. Admissions Events Working on your application? Here are the requirements, deadlines, and more. How to Apply Download your Lauder guide today. This guide covers everything you need to get started on your Lauder journey. Latest News Death of Stephen Kobrin Accepted Podcast: Admissions Q&A with Kara Keenan Sweeney Deborahl Wahl: 2022 Lauder Graduation Speaker Chad Payne wins Audience Choice Award for Penn Grad Talks 2022 Jacobson Venture Awards Winners Announced! On-campus Information Sessions Resume “The Lauder Institute is unique among global business programs through its integration of an MA in international studies with a top MBA.” Ronald Lauder, Co-Founder and Chairman of the Board, The Lauder Institute Stay Connected Support Lauder Giving to the Lauder Institute Campus Map Lauder Institute Alumni Association Lauder Institute Inside Class of 2024 Admit Portal The Joseph H. Lauder Institute 256 South 37th street 2nd Floor Philadelphia, PA 19104-6330 Twitter Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Instagram Additional Links Lauder Institute About Admissions Academics Students Alumni Resources Staff & Faculty Lauder Inside Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff ©2022 The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Lauder Institute | Privacy Policy | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help