Skip to main content University of Cincinnati magnifying glass Use the form to search UC's web site for pages, programs, directory profiles and more. College of Law Law right arrow down arrow Admissions & Aid right arrow down arrow Apply right arrow down arrow Application Advice Create Custom Viewbook Schedule Visit right arrow down arrow Visit FAQs JD Program right arrow down arrow Requirements & Policies Transfer & Visiting Students International JD Students Military & Veteran Students Online Status Checker FlexTime Program UC Stay a Bearcat 3+3 Programs Equity & Inclusion Admissions Events Meet Our Students Student Ambassadors LLM Program right arrow down arrow LLM Academics LLM Application LLM Scholarships Resources for LLM Students right arrow down arrow Staff and Resources FAQ Admitted LLM Students right arrow down arrow Getting Your Visa Finding Housing Scheduling Courses Meet Our Students LLM to JD Transfer Program Request Information Schedule LLM Virtual Visit Master of Legal Studies (MLS) Certificate Programs JD Class Profile Financial Aid right arrow down arrow Tuition & Cost of Attendance Scholarships Loans Residency Resources Filing the FAFSA Admitted JD Students right arrow down arrow Fellowships Registration Requirements Admitted Student Events Housing Meet the Admissions Team Videos Collection Academics right arrow down arrow Academic Programs right arrow down arrow JD Program right arrow down arrow Academic Success Degree Requirements Program Outcomes LLM in U.S. Law right arrow down arrow Business Law Concentration International Legal Studies Concentration MLS Program Joint Degree Programs right arrow down arrow JD/MBA JD/Master of Community Planning JD/MA Womens Gender & Sexuality Studies Graduate Certificate Programs Professional Pathways right arrow down arrow Business and Entrepreneurship Law Criminal Law Environmental and Energy Law General and Small Practice Health Law Innovation, Technology and Intellectual Property Law International Law Litigation and Alternative Dispute Resolution Public Interest Law Curricula Registrar right arrow down arrow Ranking Information right arrow down arrow Fall 2020 - Spring 2021 Library right arrow down arrow Library Faculty & Staff Archives & Rare Books right arrow down arrow Papers of William J. Butler The Papers of Judge Nathaniel R. Jones Cincinnati Law Library Association Collection Library Events & Announcements About the Law Library Academic Calendar Student Life right arrow down arrow Current Students Health and Wellness Student Experiences right arrow down arrow Journals right arrow down arrow Law Review Human Rights Quarterly Immigration and Human Rights Law Review Freedom Center Journal Intellectual Property and Computer Law Journal Student Organizations Trial Practice American Inn of Court Moot Court right arrow down arrow August A. Rendigs, Jr. National Products Liability Moot Court Competition Graduation Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion right arrow down arrow Accessibility Resources Action Items and Updates Bias-Related Incident Reporting Tool Curriculum Gender Equity & Inclusion LGBTQ+ Resources Outreach & Networking Scholarships Student Handbook Academic & Student Affairs Personnel Law Student Intranet Faculty & Research right arrow down arrow Faculty Directory right arrow down arrow Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Faculty Expertise Faculty Blogs Lectures & Visitors Resources for Faculty Real-World Learning right arrow down arrow Centers right arrow down arrow Center for Practice right arrow down arrow Center for Practice CLE Cincinnati Center for the Global Practice of Law right arrow down arrow Concentration in International Legal Studies Corporate Law Center right arrow down arrow Corporate Law Concentration Jones Center for Race, Gender, and Social Justice right arrow down arrow Hamilton County Domestic Violence Summit Social Justice Concentration Ohio Innocence Project right arrow down arrow Staff and Board of Advocates Meet Our Freed Clients and Exonerees Corporate and Law Firm Friends Educational Resources Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights right arrow down arrow Human Rights Quarterly & Other Publications Weaver Institute for Law and Psychiatry right arrow down arrow Weaver Symposium 2019 Clinics right arrow down arrow Domestic Violence and Civil Protection Order Clinic Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic right arrow down arrow For Students For Clients Pro-Bono Opportunities for Lawyers Indigent Defense Clinic Legal Access Clinic right arrow down arrow For Students Ohio Innocence Project Sixth Circuit Clinic Patent and Trademark Clinic Externships Pro Bono Opportunities Careers right arrow down arrow Center for Professional Development right arrow down arrow Staff Programs and Events right arrow down arrow Events Calendar Policies Reciprocity Employment Data Resources for Students right arrow down arrow The Complete Professional Bar Exam Information New York Bar Skills Competency Requirement Bar Exam Resources for 2Ls (Student Intranet) Resources for Employers Alumni & Giving right arrow down arrow Giving Get Involved Counselor Magazine Transcripts Contact Us About right arrow down arrow Administration Staff right arrow down arrow Resources for Staff News & Events New Building History Cincinnati & Region Dean's Advisory Board ABA Required Disclosures COVID-19 Resources COVID-19 Updates Law » Real-World Learning » Centers » Ohio Innocence Project Set Navigation title in component Centers Center for Practice Center for Practice CLE Cincinnati Center for the Global Practice of Law Concentration in International Legal Studies Corporate Law Center Corporate Law Concentration Jones Center for Race, Gender, and Social Justice Hamilton County Domestic Violence Summit Social Justice Concentration Ohio Innocence Project Staff and Board of Advocates Meet Our Freed Clients and Exonerees Corporate and Law Firm Friends Educational Resources Urban Morgan Institute for Human Rights Human Rights Quarterly & Other Publications Weaver Institute for Law and Psychiatry Weaver Symposium 2019 Clinics Domestic Violence and Civil Protection Order Clinic Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic For Students For Clients Pro-Bono Opportunities for Lawyers Indigent Defense Clinic Legal Access Clinic For Students Ohio Innocence Project Sixth Circuit Clinic Patent and Trademark Clinic Externships Pro Bono Opportunities Ohio Innocence Project at Cincinnati Law Mark Godsey, OIP co-founder & director (left), and Brian Howe, OIP staff attorney (right), stand with Rickey Jackson (middle) during exoneration proceedings. Jackson spent 39 years in prison for a crime he didn't commit. En Español Welcome to the Ohio Innocence Project at Cincinnati Law, where our goal is simple: we want to free every innocent person in Ohio who has been convicted of a crime they didn't commit. We’re proud to be a part of the University of Cincinnati, where we made our home in 2003. Since our inception, our work has led to the release of 34 wrongfully convicted Ohioans, who collectively served nearly 665 years behind bars. That makes us one of the top-performing members among the international Innocence Network. Our work includes helping develop and advocate for lasting criminal justice reform through legislation as well as launching Ohio Innocence Project University, an active network of student groups at colleges across the state. - Mark Godsey, Co-Founder & Director, Ohio Innocence Project Support Our Work Like us on Facebook Follow us on twitter Join the discussion How to donate to the Ohio Innocence Project right arrow down arrow All donations received by the Ohio Innocence Project are tax-deductible. OIP is held within the University of Cincinnati Foundation’s 501(c)(3) not-for-profit corporation status and has the Internal Revenue Service identification number 31-0896555. All donations received help pay for the costly work involved with the OIP’s mission. For example, it costs OIP $100 for a public record request or transcript; it costs $250 for three hours of private investigator time; and it costs $1,000 to conduct a DNA test on evidence. Donation by Credit Card: foundation.uc.edu/OIP Donation by Check Make your check out to the UC Foundation with Ohio Innocence Project in the memo line. Checks can be mailed to the following address: Attn: Mindy Roy UC College of Law PO Box 210040 Cincinnati, OH 45221 If you have questions about other ways to make a gift, please contact Mindy Roy at Mindy.Roy@uc.edu. We Owe Our Success To: the generosity of Lois and Richard Rosenthal, whose support created the Rosenthal Institute for Justice, our home within Cincinnati Law the ongoing support of Richard Rosenthal, whose $15 million gift in 2016 ranks as the highest in the school’s history hundreds of Cincinnati Law students, including Innocence Project Fellows and volunteers, who have invested thousands of hours of their energy and intellect in righting what are often decades-old wrongs our dedicated staff of Cincinnati Law-trained attorneys, who serve as daily leaders by example—they educate the wrongfully convicted, along with students and the public, in their relentless pursuit of justice Cincinnati Law, a social justice powerhouse house that attracts top talent at the University of Cincinnati, a top-tier urban research university students from across the state of Ohio, who offer support and enthusiasm through Ohio Innocence Project University chapters on their campuses our all-star volunteer Board of Advocates, a group of legal experts, community leaders and others that was formed in 2013 to support our mission, vision and work our corporate and law firm friends who regularly provide financial and legal support to our efforts the tireless dedication of the innocent and their champions, whose strength, courage and resilience inspire us daily. OIP Review Magazines right arrow down arrow The OIP Review is an annual magazine covering OIP's efforts to fulfill its mission. OIP Review Eigth Edition — Telling Their Stories OIP Review Seventh Edition — A Family Called Freedom OIP Review Sixth Edition — Convicting an Innocent Person Convicts a Family, Too OIP Review Fifth Edition — Adjusting to Prison with Art and Soul OIP Review Fourth Edition — Breaking the Chains: Exonerees Not Always as Free as Expected OIP Review Third Edition — OIP Stands Ready to Change the World Information for Students, Potential Clients and Volunteers Fellowships for Cincinnati Law Students right arrow down arrow Each year, the Ohio Innocence Project at Cincinnati Law, which ranks among the most successful projects in the Innocence Network, selects a team of 20 law students, the majority of whom are in their second year, to serve as Fellows. OIP Fellows and staff spend many hours reading and writing letters and having telephone conversations with inmates about their cases. Prior to actively taking on a case, if not before, the OIP staff and Fellows will meet the inmate in person to discuss the case, the plan for litigation and the expectations of the inmate and the OIP in the case. From May through August, the Fellows work 40 hours per week and receive a small stipend for their work. During the academic year, the Fellows work approximately 10 hours per week and receive class credit for their participation. To apply to be an OIP fellow you must be an admitted student to the College of Law or a current first-year student. Instructions to apply can be found on the admitted students fellowship page. Get involved right arrow down arrow At the Ohio Innocence Project, our attorneys and students work hard to help wrongfully convicted inmates get out of prison and get the justice they deserve. You can join our staff and students as an intern to help the wrongfully convicted. Internships To qualify for an internship with the OIP, you must meet the following criteria: enrolled in an academic program (currently or will be enrolled) access to reliable transportation ability to bring your own laptop is preferred self-motivated and able to work independently must be able to respect the confidential nature of the legal work conducted in our office (you will be required to sign a confidentiality agreement) Our internship program is unpaid. The time commitment is 10 hours per week. The program runs from semester to semester based on the University of Cincinnati’s academic calendar. Each semester, you must re-apply to be considered but we make no guarantees you will be able to participate in the program for longer than one semester. Some of the tasks our interns are responsible for include: picking up and dropping off the incoming and outgoing mail filing, scanning and copying organizing files answering the phones general administrative support assist with special projects as needed assist with events as needed To apply for an internship, please send the following to Stephanie King at kingsp@ucmail.uc.edu: resume cover letter explaining why you are interested in our program 2 references if you are trying to receive credit for a class for this internship, please include the requirements and your advisor or program coordinator’s name and contact information All applications will be reviewed and responded to by the manager of the internship program. If you qualify and we are interested in learning more about you, an interview at the OIP office will be scheduled. Help for People in Prison right arrow down arrow Need Help? An inmate requesting the assistance of the OIP should complete the Screening Application (pdf). The inmate must FULLY COMPLETE the form and submit it to the address on the form, otherwise it will be returned and no further action will be taken until returned complete. Print out a hard copy of the application, fill out in ink, and return it by mail if you would like the OIP to review your case. Annual Fundraisers right arrow down arrow Dear Bearcats Dash & Bash Supporters, After much consideration of current COVID-19 circumstances, we are sad to report that our Bearcats Dash & Bash is canceled for 2020. If you already have registered for this year's race, please see the policy below regarding refunds. We will see you on October 3, 2021 for an exciting start of our next Bearcats Dash & Bash! We are committed to a great comeback! Refund policy: Those who already registered for this year's race have three options. (1) You may count your registration fee as a donation to the two charities that sponsor the race (the Ohio Innocence Project and the UC Athletic Scholarship Fund); (2) you may defer your registration to next year's race on October 3, 2021; or (3) you may receive a refund. If you wish to defer or receive a refund, please email Katie Wood at woodkh@ucmail.uc.edu by the end of the day on October 4, 2020; otherwise, your fee will count as a donation. Thank you very much for your consideration and understanding. Please stay safe, healthy, and be well. Go Bearcats! WVXU: Ohio Innocence Project Works to Exonerate the Wrongfully... May 17, 2018 UC College of Law professor Jennifer Bergeron tells "Cincinnati Edition" how 26 defendants have been freed with help from UC students and faculty. Salon: Mark Godsey is an American Superhero: He Gets Innocent... September 24, 2017 Mark Godsey, the director and co-founder of the Ohio Innocence Project at the UC College of Law, is spotlighted in this story for his work in successfully freeing and exonerating more than two dozen wrongfully-convicted men and women and his new book, 'Blind Injustice: A Former Prosecutor Exposes the Psychology and Politics of Wrongful Convictions.' OIP helps free 28th defendant November 27, 2018 From prison to center stage March 6, 2019 UC OIP breakfast raises $140K-plus to help wrongly convicted April 15, 2019 Ohio man who served 45 years in prison finally free, thanks to... May 5, 2020 Isiah Andrews was wrongfully convicted in 1975 of murdering his wife of just three weeks. It would take more than 45 years and a team of attorneys and students from the Ohio Innocence Project at the University of Cincinnati College of Law to uncover evidence that led to his conviction being overturned. UC’s OIP helps free 29th defendant April 21, 2020 Christopher Smith served 12 years in prison for a crime he didn't commit and then even after a federal judge ordered his release when his conviction was overturned on constitutional violations, faced a COVID-19 scare when prison officials refused to release him. He's finally free, thanks to the Ohio Innocence Project at the University of Cincinnati College of Law. Query for this UC helps free 27th defendant Blind Injustice University of Cincinnati College of Law 2540 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6805 UC Tools Canopy & Canvas One Stop Email Catalyst Shuttle Tracker IT Help UC VPN Bearcats Landing About Us Maps & Directions Jobs News Diversity Governance & Policies Directory Events Calendar University of Cincinnati | 2600 Clifton Ave. | Cincinnati, OH 45221 | ph: 513-556-6000 Alerts | Clery and HEOA Notice | Notice of Non-Discrimination | eAccessibility Concern | Privacy Statement | Free Speech | Copyright Information © 2020 University of Cincinnati University of Cincinnati College of Law 2540 Clifton Ave Cincinnati OH 45221 513-556-6805 © 2020 University of Cincinnati scroll up to the top