Prospective J.D. Students Employers Current J.D. Students LL.M. & MLS Programs Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Media Legal Assistance Apply Give Admissions Financial Aid Paths to Success Academics Fort Worth / Dallas Careers & The Aggie Network Texas A&M University School of Law Texas A&M University School of Law Quick Links Apply Now Hire Aggie Lawyers Legal Assistance Howdy Portal Intranet Library News Events About Us Support Aggie Law Prospective J.D. Students Admissions Admissions Home: Why Texas A&M Apply Now J.D. Admission Programs J.D. Class Profile Success: It's in Our Core Career Success Why Texas Connect With Us Meet Your Classmates Diversity & Inclusion GRE Tuition Cost ABA Required Disclosures Admitted Students FAQ Take a Virtual Tour of Texas A&M Law & Dallas-Fort Worth Texas A&M Law now accepts the GRE. Learn more. Financial Aid Financial Aid Home Tuition & Cost of Attendance Scholarships and Tuition Waivers Loans Work Study Veterans Benefits FAFSA International Students Financial Literacy Resources Maintaining Eligibility Scholarships and Tuition Waivers All applicants to Texas A&M School of Law are considered for tuition waivers at the time they are admitted to our program. There's no separate application to complete. What does your path to success look like? Paths to Success Paths to Success Litigation / Dispute Resolution Business / Transactional Regulatory Guide to Practice Areas Study Law at Texas A&M An ideal location, flexible scheduling, and an innovative academic program make Texas A&M University School of Law an excellent place for your legal studies. What does your path to success look like? Academics Academics Home Our Innovative J.D. Program Guide to Practice Areas Experiential Education Programs & Centers Concentrations Courses Law Journals Advocacy Competitions Our Part-Time Program Faculty Library Interaction Beyond the Classroom Our accessible and student-friendly faculty have considerable academic and professional experience and take pride in teaching and mentoring students. What does your path to success look like? Fort Worth / Dallas Discover Fort Worth The Fort Worth / Dallas Legal Community Texas, Where the Jobs Are Discover Fort Worth Choosing a law school means choosing your home for the next few years, and you won’t find a better place to learn, live and work than Fort Worth. What does your path to success look like? Careers & The Aggie Network Welcome to Career Services The Aggie Network Personal Counseling & Career Development Seminars Online Job Bank - REVS On-Campus Interviews Off-Campus Job Fairs Judicial Clerkships Networking Career Services Handbook Contact Career Services Employment Statistics Join Texas A&M Law and put the strength of the Aggie Network behind you. What does your path to success look like? Current J.D. Students LL.M. & MLS Programs Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Media Employers Can we help you find something? Meet Our Faculty Huyen Pham, professor of immigration law, teaches that law isn't a set of restrictions; it's a foundation for freedom. Get to know us Meet Our Faculty Associate Dean for Experiential Education, Luz Herrera, trains her students to be fearless advocates for justice. Get to know us Meet Our Faculty Professor Glynn Lunney explores the role of copyright in the music industry in a digital age. Get to know us Meet Our Faculty Tanya Pierce, legal writing professor, teaches students the best most persuasive way to support their point argument. Get to know us Meet Our Faculty Paul George, an expert in civil litigation and transportation policy, enjoys when his students teach him something. Get to know us Meet Our Faculty Gabriel Eckstein, water and energy law professor, combines law with science to shape environmental policy. Get to know us Meet Our Faculty Neal Newman, business law professor, is an avid runner who pushes students to go the extra mile. Get to know us Meet Our Faculty International intellectual property expert Peter Yu teaches winning strategies to help students succeed on a global scale. Get to know us Success: It's In Our Core We cultivate the knowledge, skills and Aggie core values you'll need for success. See the difference Choose Your Path to Success Are you the next great trial lawyer or deal maker? Interested in a particular practice area? We'll guide you on your journey. Start your adventure Meet Your Classmates Today's students. Tomorrow's leaders. Join us Discover Fort Worth Unsurpassed quality of life, exceptional job opportunities and a welcoming legal community converge in Fort Worth. See what awaits you Explore Our Innovative J.D. Program Employers want multi-dimensional lawyers with diverse skills who thrive in a variety of roles. We've got you covered. Discover Aggie Law Global Programs Take what you learn on campus from professors like Charlotte Ku to nations across the globe. Learn more COVID-19 GUIDANCE - ON CAMPUS TESTING By the Numbers 500,000+ Aggies Worldwide strength of the Aggie Network Learn more 28% | 49% Minority | Female Faculty bringing diverse perspectives Learn more 33% | 52% Minority | Female Students 2021 entering J.D. class Learn more 24 Fortune 500 companies within 45 miles of Texas A&M Law Learn more #7 | #8 Intellectual Property | Dispute Resolution nationally ranked programs (US News) Learn more 20 Experiential Clinics & Programs providing practical experience Learn more 35 Blocks of Entertainment & Shopping in downtown Fort Worth Learn more 13,937 Pro bono hours performed by the class of 2021 Learn more #1 Area for Job Growth U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (Oct. 2020) Learn more Launch Experience News Professor Eckstein Represents Bolivia at the International Court of Justice Texas A&M Law Ranks in the Top 50 Nationally, Second in Texas Texas A&M Law to Anchor University's "Texas-sized Commitment to Fort Worth" Events Spotlight Read More News See More Events Arguing for Bolivia's water rights Apply Give Academic Calendar Events Diversity & Inclusion Library Bookstore Legal Assistance TAMU Law News Texas A&M University School of Law 1515 Commerce Street Fort Worth, Texas 76102-6509 Local: 817.212.4000 Toll Free: 800.733.9529 Emergency Information Texas A&M University Web Accessibility Site Policies About Us Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Privacy Open Records Contact Us © 2021 All Rights Reserved Stay Connected