Jump to content Apply Visit Give Navigation School of Law MyLaw Faculty and Staff Alumni Search form Search this site Main menu Admissions Academics Become Practice-Ready Life at Law School Careers Faculty About Us Request Information Homepage Drive Change A law school on the rise U.S. News and World Report released its 2023 Best Law Schools rankings. The University of Oregon School of Law climbed to #67 from last year’s #72 rank, the highest in at least two decades. The school remains #1 in the state. In a complex, dynamic world, laws organize us, protect us, empower us. Reframe discourse in productive ways and learn how to bridge differences and catalyze the potential of others across divides. Find your path in a positive and encouraging community, leading to one of the many legal careers that can propel you wherever you want to go. Request Information Visit Us How to Apply Give to Oregon Law CRES Commencement Saturday, June 4, at 10:30 am Wayne Morse Commons, Knight Law Center Celebrate our first in-person CRES Commencement since 2019. Professor Michael Moffitt will deliver the Commencement Address. More Top-Ranked Programs According to the US News and World Report 2023 Law School rankings, Oregon Law boasts 3 top-ten programs: Legal Writing, Environmental Law, and Dispute Resolution. Read More Oregon Law Dean's Report We invite you to explore this five-year report, highlighting the law school’s strategic initiatives and showcasing its core areas of excellence. Faculty, staff, students, and alumni came together to achieve amazing things and Drive Change. Explore the Report Degree Programs Juris Doctor Engage in a three-year, full-time, JD Program that is challenging, inspiring, and gratifying. Our outstanding faculty, extensive experiential learning opportunities, and custom-tailored approach to career and professional planning help you become the leader you want to be. JD Program Master of Laws (LLM) Advance your career with this one-year, full-time program. As an internationally recognized postgraduate law degree, the LLM program requires an ABA-accredited JD degree (domestic applicants) or the first degree of law required for law practice or law teaching (international applications). LLM Program Conflict and Dispute Resolution (CRES) Organizations need professionals with the knowledge and skills to engage with and manage conflict productively. CRES offers the option of a two-year master’s program or a HyFlex graduate certificate to pair with another graduate degree program or your current profession. CRES Program Concurrent Degrees Broaden and deepen your law career opportunities with a concurrent degree--an advantage as laws grow increasingly complex. And, achieve the results in less time than the standard approach. Concurrent Degree Programs Undergraduate Take law courses from the same world-class professors that teach graduate law students. In these fascinating, interdisciplinary courses, you learn about the Constitution and the laws and policies that govern the environment, human rights, culture, business, crime, families, and conflicts. Undergraduate Programs 178 OREGON LAW ALUMNI WHO ARE SITTING JUDGES 91.4% OVERALL EMPLOYMENT RATE FOR OREGON LAW’S 2021 JD GRADUATES 100% CRES STUDENTS PARTICIPATE IN HANDS-ON LEARNING EXPERIENCES 47.5% 2021 JD GRADUATES Employed IN Law Firms 8 LAW CLINICS WITHIN WALKING DISTANCE OF THE KNIGHT LAW CENTER 1 in 5 2021 JD GRADUATES WORKING IN JUDICIAL CLERKSHIPS “I wanted to get a law degree to not only develop a set of skills that I could use in all settings, but to speak truth to power and advocate for people who might not have the tools they need.” —Erika Pirotte, JD ‘18 Attorney Natural Resources Unit Navajo Nation Department of Justice “I am living my dream. As a civil rights prosecutor, I have the distinct privilege of working on behalf of all Americans to protect the rights of some of our most vulnerable community members. Without my UO law degree, none of this would be possible.” —Rose Gibson, JD ‘10 Federal Prosecutor United States Department of Justice Civil Rights Division, Washington, DC Practical Experience Engage in a wide variety of practical experiences: Clinical Programs Field Placements Fellowships Pro Bono Volunteer Opportunities Law Journals Advocacy Competitions Simulation Courses Gain the experience and skills to become practice-ready through our nationally ranked Legal Research and Writing Program and a variety of practical experiences. Combined with academics, these experiences will prepare you to be ready for practice upon graduation. And, we see career success as a journey, not a destination. We offer a personalized approach to career and professional planning and guide you to become leaders in the legal field you choose. Practical Experience The University of Oregon is located within the traditional homelands of the Southern Kalapuya. Following the Willamette Valley Treaty of 1855, Kalapuya people were forcibly removed to the Coast Reservation in Western Oregon. Today, descendants are citizens of the Confederated Tribes of Grand Ronde Community of Oregon and the Confederated Tribes of the Siletz Indians of Oregon. Learn more about this native history on campus with the Many Nations Longhouse. Eugene Immersed in nature, the Eugene metropolitan area is the second largest city in Oregon and home to the Knight Law Center. Eugene is also home to the Federal Courthouse, Lane County Circuit Court, and the city’s Municipal Court. Explore the Eugene Campus Portland A Bridge to Practice—The Portland Program The School of Law’s Portland Program offers you the opportunity to spend your entire third year building a portfolio of real-world experience, specialized course work, and personal connections. Engage law in the heart of Oregon’s largest city and center of the largest network of UO law alumni. Explore the Portland Campus News New Fellows Announced for Oregon Law Programs The new fellows for the upcoming school year have been announced for Oregon Law’s Business Law, Environmental and Natural Resources, and Public Law and Policy programs.The Business Law Program University of Oregon Law School holds first in-person commencement ceremony since 2019 The Honorable Judge John V. Acosta, JD ’82, will deliver address. The Juris Doctorate (JD) and Master of Laws (LLM) Commencement will be on May 21. The University will confer more than 150 JD and LLM degrees this year. The ceremony will be held at 1:00 pm in the Matthew Knight Arena. Reflections from Oregon Law alumni with 2022 Oregon court appointments Law school memories from Oregon Law Alumni appointed to the judiciary in Oregon. All News » Events Let's Talk - Confidential One-on-Ones May30 Let's Talk - Confidential One-on-OnesMay 30 3:00 p.m. See multiple satellite locations in description or website All Events We Love Our Law Alumni Since 1884, we've built a tight-knit community of accomplished Law School alumni. This law community supports student scholarships and faculty research, shares its wisdom in class visits, and helps new graduates launch their careers. In the process we've formed a strong network of personal and professional connections that will last a lifetime. Give Back DEGREE PROGRAMS JD Program Advanced Degree Programs Undergraduate Programs RESOURCES Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Faculty/Staff Directory MyLaw Login John E. Jaqua Law Library Give to UO Law Knight Center Hours I AM A ... Current Student Faculty and Staff Member Alumni 1221 University of Oregon Eugene , OR 97403-1221 Office: Knight Law P: 541-346-1559 70 NW Couch Street Portland , OR Office: White Stag Block Visit us on Facebook Visit us on Twitter Visit us on YouTube Visit us on Instagram Visit us on LinkedIn Accessibility Report a Concern Careers Privacy About Find People © University of Oregon. All Rights Reserved. UO prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, sex, national or ethnic origin, age, religion, marital status, disability, veteran status, citizenship status, parental status, sexual orientation, gender identity, and gender expression in all programs, activities and employment practices as required by Title IX, other applicable laws, and policies. Retaliation is prohibited by UO policy. Questions may be referred to the Title IX Coordinator, Office of Investigations and Civil Rights Compliance, or to the Office for Civil Rights. Contact information, related policies, and complaint procedures are listed on the statement of non-discrimination. Site Navigation Admissions Academics Become Practice-Ready Life at Law School Careers Faculty About Us Request Information Take Action Apply Visit Give Quick Links MyLaw Faculty and Staff Alumni