Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > Alumni > In conversation with Chancellor Allison Garrett In conversation with Chancellor Allison Garrett February 3, 2022 Allison D. Garrett graduated from The University of Tulsa College of Law in 1987 with a Juris Doctor degree. Since then, she has gained a wealth of experience in the corporate and post-secondary worlds, including as a vice president and general counsel with Walmart and, from 2016 to 2021, president of Emporia State University. Chancellor Allison Garrett (JD ’87) In fall 2021, Garrett was appointed chancellor by the Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education (OSRHE) after a nationwide search for someone to fill this influential leadership role. Garrett, the first woman to serve as chancellor, leads the state system’s 25 public colleges and universities and is responsible for a budget over $2.8 billion. When Garrett was chosen, Gov. Kevin Stitt commented, “I am confident that she can help us grow in Oklahoma. Her background and experience are perfect to lead a new era in our higher education system.” At TU Law, we were thrilled to learn of our alumna’s career success and honored that she shared with us thoughts on matters ranging from her vision for Oklahoma public higher education and her job as chancellor to memories of her law school days and the impact her TU education has had on her professional journey. What are the main goals, challenges and opportunities facing higher education in Oklahoma and its public post-secondary institutions? Higher education in Oklahoma has two major objectives: workforce development and creating hope and a path to a better life for Oklahoma’s citizens. Among the biggest challenges facing Oklahoma’s public institutions, and likely its private institutions, are financial challenges. In Oklahoma, we have the dubious distinction of being the system with the highest cuts in the nation from 2010 to 2020. Advocating for higher education to be viewed not as an expense but as an investment is key. I plan to work closely with many across our system to develop or expand programs in some of the highest need areas. As chancellor, what is your role in helping our public colleges and universities overcome those challenges and seize those opportunities? Allison Garrett’s swearing-in ceremony as chancellor. Left to right: Allison Garrett, Oklahoma Supreme Court Justice Yvonne Kauger, Tori Garrett (credit: OSRHE) The OSRHE is a coordinating board rather than a governing board. We set policy, engage in strategic planning and advocate for education in the State of Oklahoma. We also administer many programs, including Oklahoma’s nationally recognized Promise program, which enables high school students from lower-income families to earn a college tuition scholarship. As chancellor, I will be working with our 25 institutions, the Regents, the terrific team in OSRHE and the Oklahoma Legislature to assure that higher education serves the State of Oklahoma well by creating an educated and engaged workforce that meets our state’s needs. As president of Emporia State University, what lessons did you learn that will be helpful in your new position? Allison Garrett during her inauguration as president of Emporia State University (credit: ESU) My experiences at a public university helped me understand the daily challenges faced by students, faculty and staff at our higher-education institutions. Being president also gave me a front-row seat to the transformative impact of education. Every year at commencement, I loved hearing families cheer for their loved ones. For first-generation students, graduating from college is a huge achievement for the entire family and will have a multi-generational impact on that family. In addition to your experience in academia, you have held senior roles in the corporate world. What knowledge and skills did those years give you that will be valuable for your work as chancellor? Many skills from the corporate world are directly transferrable to higher education. As someone hiring many employees, for example, I learned firsthand the importance of workforce development. My vice president roles at Walmart gave me a seat at the table for many discussions that were like an on-the-job MBA. In my work as an advocate for our system of higher education, it’s crucial that we share stories of how higher education transforms lives and also that we have data to back up what we do and say. The policy-drafting work in a large company is also similar to some of the work in the role of chancellor. You earned a Juris Doctor from TU Law. Looking back on your time here, what were some of the memorable highlights? Because I was young when I started at the College of Law, my classmates thought it was funny when local law firms had cocktail receptions for new law students. I’m sure that the law firms didn’t realize they were offering liquor to a minor! (For the record, though, it wasn’t an issue because I don’t drink.) I also had some wonderful professors at TU Law. I remember Marty Frey and Rex Zedalis with great fondness and I particularly enjoyed their classes. My experience on the Tulsa Law Review was incredibly helpful in developing my writing abilities. Our editor in chief was a journalism major; she was a very helpful reviewer and critic of our work. I learned so much from her! How did your legal education help to prepare you for success in both the corporate and higher education spheres? Being a great attorney or an executive often involves many of the same skills. Knowing what questions to ask, doggedly pursuing answers, treating people with respect and thinking about all of the “what ifs” are important skills in both the legal profession and in executive roles, whether in higher education or the corporate world. What would you like our readers to know about you beyond your professional history and current role as chancellor? My husband Chip and I got married just a few months after I graduated from TU Law. Not long after that, we moved to Washington, DC, where I worked for the Securities and Exchange Commission and he worked for the Department of Justice. Chip and I have three grown children — Ethan, Tori and Noah. The oldest two live near us in Edmond. Our granddaughter Charlotte is also in Edmond. Outside of work and family life, I’m happiest when I’m out on the golf course. I don’t play golf particularly well, but I love it! University of Tulsa College of Law alumni like Allison Garrett leverage the skills and knowledge they gained during their Juris Doctor studies to build fascinating, impactful careers in both the private and public sectors. Discover whether a high-quality legal education at TU Law is your portal to success. Alumni, Featured, Law School, News, Stories Allison Garrett, Oklahoma State Regents for Higher Education, OSRHE, Promise program, tulsa law review 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT