Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Student Affairs Student Affairs Office Student Affairs Menu Message from Dean Bangs Welcome to Texas Law! The Student Affairs Office (SAO) provides support, serves as a resource and helps Texas Law students achieve their academic and extracurricular goals. Our knowledgeable staff is committed to providing exceptional customer service while serving as a liaison between students, faculty, and administrators. Whether counseling students on academic or personal matters, coordinating student activities, or implementing policies and procedures, the SAO aims to create a quality learning and living environment. While many people are here to assist you during your time at Texas Law, we hope you will view our office as a useful resource and a good place to start with questions. Please stop by! — Elizabeth T. Bangs, Assistant Dean for Student Affairs Meet the SAO Team Mentoring When you attend Texas Law, you aren't just joining a community of students. You are joining a huge and accomplished community of former students—25,000 strong— who will have your back as you enter the legal profession. Mentoring begins in the Spring of your 1L year when every student is carefully matched with a hand-picked alumnus working in the student's area of interest. Sign up for the the Mentoring Program Orientation Orientation is the very beginning of your law school career. A time to meet the faculty and staff and your fellow students. A time to explore the curriculum with mock classes, and a time to get familiar with student organizations and journals. Learn more about Orientation 2021 now! Orientation 2021 Academic Services Student Affairs Calendar Academic Calendar Course Schedule Registration Non-Law Students Forms Student Services Academic Advising Bar Preparation Health & Wellness Student Affairs Academic Services Academic Calendars Non-Law Students Forms Student Services Academic Advising Health and Wellness Bar Preparation Student Life The Society Program Student Organizations Student Journals Mock Trial and Moot Court Graduation Sunflower Ceremony RSVP for Graduation History of the Sunflower Ceremony Degree Requirements/General Graduation Info Graduation Honors Chancellors Equity and Inclusion Contact Us Upcoming Events Jun 2 Demystifying OCI-Bidding to Interviewing 12:00pm–1:00pm Virtual Aug 12 Thriving in Law School 3:30pm–6:00pm Sheffield-Massey Room Aug 24 Mentoring Program Back to School Event 5:30pm–7:00pm Susman Godfrey Atrium Sep 9 Change It Up! 2022 12:30pm Eidman Courtroom Sep 22 Texas Law Marketplace 10:00am–3:00pm Susman Godfrey Atrium More events Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.