Prospective J.D. Students Employers Current J.D. Students LL.M. & MLS Programs Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Media Legal Assistance Apply Give Admissions Financial Aid Paths to Success Academics Fort Worth / Dallas Careers & The Aggie Network Texas A&M University School of Law Texas A&M University School of Law Quick Links Apply Now Hire Aggie Lawyers Legal Assistance Howdy Portal Intranet Library News Events About Us Support Aggie Law Prospective J.D. Students Admissions Admissions Home: Why Texas A&M Apply Now J.D. Admission Programs J.D. Class Profile Success: It's in Our Core Career Success Why Texas Connect With Us Meet Your Classmates Diversity & Inclusion GRE Tuition Cost ABA Required Disclosures Admitted Students FAQ Take a Virtual Tour of Texas A&M Law & Dallas-Fort Worth Texas A&M Law now accepts the GRE. Learn more. Financial Aid Financial Aid Home Tuition & Cost of Attendance Scholarships and Tuition Waivers Loans Work Study Veterans Benefits FAFSA International Students Financial Literacy Resources Maintaining Eligibility Scholarships and Tuition Waivers All applicants to Texas A&M School of Law are considered for tuition waivers at the time they are admitted to our program. There's no separate application to complete. What does your path to success look like? Paths to Success Paths to Success Litigation / Dispute Resolution Business / Transactional Regulatory Guide to Practice Areas Study Law at Texas A&M An ideal location, flexible scheduling, and an innovative academic program make Texas A&M University School of Law an excellent place for your legal studies. What does your path to success look like? Academics Academics Home Our Innovative J.D. Program Guide to Practice Areas Experiential Education Programs & Centers Concentrations Courses Law Journals Advocacy Competitions Our Part-Time Program Faculty Library Interaction Beyond the Classroom Our accessible and student-friendly faculty have considerable academic and professional experience and take pride in teaching and mentoring students. What does your path to success look like? Fort Worth / Dallas Discover Fort Worth The Fort Worth / Dallas Legal Community Texas, Where the Jobs Are Discover Fort Worth Choosing a law school means choosing your home for the next few years, and you won’t find a better place to learn, live and work than Fort Worth. What does your path to success look like? Careers & The Aggie Network Welcome to Career Services The Aggie Network Personal Counseling & Career Development Seminars Online Job Bank - REVS On-Campus Interviews Off-Campus Job Fairs Judicial Clerkships Networking Career Services Handbook Contact Career Services Employment Statistics Join Texas A&M Law and put the strength of the Aggie Network behind you. What does your path to success look like? Current J.D. Students LL.M. & MLS Programs Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Media Employers Can we help you find something? Admissions Apply Now Admission Process J.D. Admissions Program (LSAT or GRE) Aggie Direct Alternative Admission Program Process Incoming Transfer Students Visiting J.D. Students Class Profile Success: It's At Our Core Career Success Why Texas Connect With Us Coming to a Location Near You Events Info Session Meet Your Classmates GRE Tuition Cost ABA Required Disclosures FAQ Financial Aid Tuition Tuition and Fees Refund Policy Scholarships and Tuition Waivers Loans Work Study Veterans Benefits FAFSA International Students Financial Literacy Resources Maintaining Eligibility Paths to Success Business / Transactional Law Litigation / Dispute Resolution Regulatory Law Guide to Practice Areas Dispute Resolution Criminal Law and Procedure Energy Law Water Law Oil and Gas Law Environmental Law Workplace Law Commercial Law Civil Litigation General Practice Health Law Real Estate Law Business Law Estate Planning Family Law IP and Technology Law Immigration Law Agriculture Law Academics Our J.D. Program Guide to Practice Areas Programs & Centers Equal Justice Program Center for Law and Intellectual Property (CLIP) Need to Know Workshops Speaker Series Intellectual Property and Global Development CLIP Publications CLIP Press Releases CLIP In the Media CLIP Op-Eds Student Blogs - Italy CLIP events 2017 IP Aggie Forum Faculty Copyright 101 GEWFW2019 Entrepreneurship Law Clinic Externship Programs Contracts Laboratory Legal Analysis, Research and Writing Program Professionalism & Leadership Program Global Programs News Events Global Programs Blog Trip to Angkor Student Blogs Cambodia Ghana Jersey Cambodia - Katie Stallcup Jersey - Royal Court Ghana - Taylor Wood Israel and Scotland Field Studies Field Studies Field Studies and Courses Israel 2018 Blog Israeli Innovation Sorek and BIRD Foundation Givat Haviva Old City of Jerusalem Scotland 2018 Blog Donnottar Castle International Comparative Law Glen Garioch Distillery Transboundary Hydrocarbons Energy, Environmental, and Natural Resource Systems Law Program EENRSLP Courses EENRSLP News EENRSLP Events Natural Resources Law Reports & Publications US Groundwater Laws Eminent Domain Law Texas-Mexico Groundwater Flooding Liability Report Coastal Communities Report Groundwater Desalination and Water Recycling Report Flood Management in Texas Planning for the Future ESG Program in Law and Social Science Program in Real Estate and Community Development Law Aggie Dispute Resolution Program Events News Faculty Activities Courses Dispute Resolution Field Studies AggieDR in the Media Consortium Criminal Law, Justice & Policy Program In the Media News Criminal Law Pop-Up Classes Criminal Law Society Book Club Film Workplace Law Program Borderlands Law Concentrations Business Law Criminal Law, Justice & Policy Dispute Resolution Domestic Public Policy Energy Law Environmental Law Estate Planning Family Law Intellectual Property International Public Policy Tax Law Water Law Workplace Law Courses Course Descriptions Law Journals Advocacy Competitions Faculty Library Fort Worth / Dallas The Fort Worth / Dallas Legal Community Texas, Where the Jobs Are Careers and the Aggie Network The Aggie Network Personal Counseling & Career Development Seminars Judicial Clerkships Online Job Bank - REVS On-Campus Interviews Off-Campus Job Fairs Networking Career Services Handbook Contact Career Services Employment Statistics Student Wellness Public Interest Law Fellowship Academic Support Prospective J.D. Students/ Paths to Success/ Guide to Practice Areas/ Dispute Resolution Dispute Resolution Including Negotiation, Mediation and Arbitration Regardless of the legal practice area you choose, you must be familiar with dispute resolution, which is sometimes referred to as "ADR" or "Alternative Dispute Resolution," but here at Texas A&M Law, we call it "Aggie Dispute Resolution." Dispute resolution procedures include negotiation, mediation and arbitration. Today, the vast majority of legal disputes are resolved outside the courtroom through dispute resolution. A negotiation is a conversation among the parties to (hopefully) achieve consensus on a particular solution to the matter or conflict. It usually involves generating many possible ideas and making various adjustments and compromises until everyone agrees to a given outcome. A mediation is a facilitated negotiation, meaning a neutral third party (or “mediator”) works with the disputing parties and helps them achieve a negotiated solution to the problem. An arbitration is a mutual agreement among the parties to select a neutral third party (or “arbitrator”) to decide how the dispute should be resolved in an informal process or conference room hearing that usually takes far less time than court, as rules of evidence and procedure can be far more relaxed. These dispute resolution processes will be a part of every area of practice, from family law to business and criminal law. Indeed, even trial lawyers — practitioners who go to court more than any other kind of attorney — must be familiar with dispute resolution processes given that each year in Texas less than 1 percent of civil cases and only 3 percent of criminal cases go to jury trial. The remaining 97-99 percent of cases are resolved through disputer resolution procedures. Core Courses Here is a list of courses that every law student should take (depending on your area of interest): ADR in the Workplace Seminar ADR Survey (required 1L course) Advanced Issues in Criminal Justice Arbitration Mediation Negotiation Theory & Practice Practicum Special Topics in Negotiations Seminar The Business Negotiator Recommended Courses Below are recommended courses that are related to ADR. You should choose courses that interest you or that will further your career objectives. Labor Negotiations Workshop Family Law & Benefits Clinic Litigation Practicum Sports Law Texas Criminal Law Practicum Trial Advocacy Practicum Clinics Several of our clinics give you negotiation and mediation experience with real parties. Learn more about our clinical opportunities. Externships Learn about current externship opportunities by contacting Ms. Cecily Becker at cbecker@law.tamu.edu. Related Links Aggie Dispute Resolution Program Litigation/Dispute Resolution path Dispute Resolution Concentration Advocacy Program - Moot Court, Mock Trial and ADR Faculty If you have questions, please contact any of the following ADR faculty members: Cynthia Alkon Guillermo Garcia Michael Green Carol Pauli Peter Reilly Nancy A. Welsh Apply Give Academic Calendar Events Diversity & Inclusion Library Bookstore Legal Assistance TAMU Law News Texas A&M University School of Law 1515 Commerce Street Fort Worth, Texas 76102-6509 Local: 817.212.4000 Toll Free: 800.733.9529 Emergency Information Texas A&M University Web Accessibility Site Policies About Us Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Privacy Open Records Contact Us © 2021 All Rights Reserved Stay Connected