Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > About the College of Law > Facilities Facilities https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-U6-Pm0a214 ABOUT ABA Required Disclosures Academic Policies Board of Advocates Diversity Facilities Mission Office of the Dean Administration and Staff Distinguished Lecture Series History Notable Alumni Schedule a Visit Apply The TU College of Law features modern classrooms, a high-tech moot courtroom for legal practice, and a comprehensive law library for students, faculty and the local legal community. In 2020, TU Law was selected by preLaw Magazine for the Best Law Buildings Honor Roll. Classrooms Classrooms are equipped with the latest technologies, including HD projection systems, touchscreen controls, computer and laptop connections (VGA and HDMI), integrated audio systems with wireless capabilities, Blu-ray players, document cameras and built-in classroom capture/recording systems. All classrooms are linked together with a full HD mesh that allows audio and video to be transmitted between rooms. The Pit is equipped with a fully integrated audio system and a quad screen video wall used for digital signage applications and event broadcasts. Mabee Legal Information Center (Law Library) The Mabee Legal Information Center (MLIC) houses three law journals, centers and certificate programs and a growing alumni organization and associated activities. The MLIC has an electronic classroom, compact shelving and access to electronic and alternative research sources. With a more than 400,000-volume collection and three professional librarians, National Jurist ranked the MLIC the 34th best law school library in the nation in 2012. The MLIC is a resource-rich and technologically advanced facility, giving students and the Tulsa legal community access to the highest standard in legal study and research. Wm Stuart Price and Michael C. Turpen Courtroom The Price and Turpen Courtroom at TU Law is designed for the future of legal instruction. The courtroom boasts a state-of-the-art sound system, broadcast, and HD recording capabilities, HD video conferencing equipment, and a wireless network. The courtroom is used for moot court competitions, classroom instruction, and a number of symposia and lectures throughout the year. Boesche Legal Clinic In the Boesche Legal Clinic, students are able to put legal skills and classroom education to the test while under the close supervision of a staff attorney. The Boesche Legal Clinic houses the Immigrant Rights Project, the Solo Practice Clinic, the Terry West Civil Legal Clinic, the Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network, and the Lobeck Taylor Community Advocacy Clinic as well as most of our clinical faculty offices and our clinical staff. The facility allows law students the opportunity to meet real clients and face challenges in a workplace setting. Students have access to conference and client interview rooms as well as designated work spaces complete with computers, printers and telephones. The seminar component of most clinics also take place in the Boesche Legal Clinic. Accessibility Elevators An elevator is located in the Mabee Legal Information Center (MLIC) to provide easy multi-level access to the various research facilities. An elevator is also located in the College of Law lobby for access to the pit, student lounge area, and lower level of the MLIC. Classrooms All classrooms at the College of Law are accessible without having to use stairs. Restrooms All of the restrooms at the College of Law and in the MLIC are ADA compliant. The restrooms in the MLIC and on the east side of College of Law are larger and more accommodating for persons with disabilities. Housing & Parking Visit the Housing, Dining & Parking page for more information about the accessibility of on-campus apartments and designated parking for students with disabilities. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT