Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law Diversity https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-U6-Pm0a214 ABOUT ABA Required Disclosures Academic Policies Board of Advocates Diversity Facilities Mission Office of the Dean Administration and Staff Distinguished Lecture Series History Notable Alumni Schedule a Visit Apply The University of Tulsa College of Law is committed to promoting diversity in the legal profession and ensuring equal opportunity and inclusion for law students, faculty and staff. The University of Tulsa College of Law believes diversity of people, ideas, opinions, and culture is essential to a productive society and community and is an integral part of academic achievements and established standards of excellence. TU College of Law welcomes and values individuals who differ in age, culture, exceptionalities, ethnicity, race, gender, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, religion, socio-economic status, personal experiences, values, and world views. Accordingly, TU Law declares its continuing commitment to promote diversity in the legal profession and ensure equal opportunity and inclusion for law students, faculty, and staff. Adopted by TU Law faculty, June 23, 2014. Diversity Committee The TU Law Diversity Committee is committed to providing cultural and educational opportunities for the TU Law community through mentoring, advising, and programming. The committee seeks to create an environment that celebrates and maintains our multifaceted community. Kelsey Holder, Chair Assistant Professor of Legal Writing ksl774@utulsa.edu Karen Grundy Associate Dean Student Affairs karen-grundy@utulsa.edu April M. Fox Associate Dean Admissions april-fox@utulsa.edu Rachel Baker Associate Dean, Director of Professional Development rachel-baker@utulsa.edu College of Law representative on University Advisory Board 3 students selected by the Dean See Diversity Committee Funding Policy Diversity Scholarships Learn more about diversity scholarships for law students. Last updated spring 2020. DiscoverLaw American Bar Association National Asian Pacific American Bar Association Korean American Scholarship Foundation National Black Law Students Association National Association for Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) Legal Defense and Educational Fund Mexican American Legal Defense Educational Fund The Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans Association on American Indian Affairs American Federation of Ramallah Palestine Fast Web FinAid We recommend visiting the AccessLex Scholarship Databank which contains almost 800 outside scholarship opportunities.” After matriculation, Students may wish to learn about additional scholarship opportunities by meeting with the Dean of Students. Diversity Resources Campus Resources TU Office of Multicultural Student Programs The Office of Multicultural Student Programs at TU provides cultural and educational programming for the entire TU community. Its dedicated staff brings together many existing campus organizations and programs under one umbrella, enriching the TU experience for all members of the university community. The Chevron Multicultural Resource Center in Hardesty Hall provides a fixed presence on campus for programming and multicultural ventures. Students have space for small group meetings and access to a growing library of books and reference materials. TU Campus Ministries TU Center for Student Academic Support The TU Center for Student Academic Support (CSAS) offers a comprehensive range of academic support services and accommodations for students with disabilities. All prospective students and newly admitted students are encouraged to contact CSAS to discuss their individual needs. TU Office of Diversity & Engagement This Office furthers the University’s mission of educational excellence by creating an environment of equity and inclusion that values diverse life experiences, ideas and perspectives. Law School Diversity Resources Law School Admission Council: Diversity in Law School DiscoverLaw.org National Black Law Students Association (NBLSA) Hispanic Lawyers Network National Native American Bar Association (NNABA) Tulsa County Bar Association Diversity Development Committee Diversity Events TU Law hosts a number of events throughout the year for current and future students and the community to encourage discussion about current topics. Check the events calendar for more information about upcoming events. Fall Diversity Networking Event This opportunity is open to current law students and local attorneys. It is graciously sponsored by GableGotwals and is hosted in partnership with the Tulsa County Bar Association Diversity Committee and is hosted by the College of Law’s Professional Development Office. The Judge Chappelle Minority Law Awareness Day The Judge Chappelle Minority Law Awareness Day, co-hosted by TU Law and the Law School Admission Council (LSAC), takes place every February in honor of DiscoverLaw.org Month. The event is designed exclusively for minority high school or early college students interested in pursuing a career in law. Students spend a day visiting the College of Law, participating in a lecture, live mock negotiation, and lunch with local minority lawyers. Students also tour the Tulsa County Courthouse, meet with a prominent judge, and visit a local law firm. The Judge Carlos Chappelle Pathway to Law Academy TU Law hosts Williams Companies and WPX Energy’s annual The Judge Carlos Chappelle Pathway to Law Academy at the College of Law. The conference includes a panel presentation by representatives from both the undergraduate and law school admissions offices, full-campus tours, lunch with diverse attorneys and law students, a guest speaker, and a live mock trial presentation by TU Law students. Buck Colbert Franklin Memorial Civil Rights Lecture Since 2000, the Buck Colbert Franklin Memorial Civil Rights Lecture has honored one of the first black attorneys in Tulsa and Oklahoma. In the aftermath of the 1921 Tulsa Race Riot, Franklin served his community and his profession by assisting victims of the riot. Working from a tent because his office and home were destroyed during the riot, he represented clients, filed briefs, and fought back against the injustice of the riot and the city’s assault on the Tulsa black community. The lecture also honors the legacy of his son, the distinguished historian John Hope Franklin, who delivered the first lecture in the series. The annual event is free and open to the community. Community College Pre-Law Day Community college students are invited to The College of Law to meet with Admissions representatives, receive information and tips on applying to law school, given a tour of The College of Law, and have an opportunity to mingle with other community college students on the path to the legal profession. Students also complete a free Law School Admissions Test workshop facilitated by TestMasters to become familiar with what to expect when taking the LSAT. Constitution Day The College of Law organizes small groups of law students, law faculty, and alumni to go out into the community and speak to fifth and sixth graders about the constitution and how it affects everyday life. The groups also speak about what it is like to be a law student and a lawyer. The College of Law continues to collaborate and explore ways to broaden its diversity initiatives, be inclusive, and provide more opportunities to connect with its greater community. The College of Law initiated the All Things TU Pop Up Fair, a joint effort with the TU Graduate and Health Profession schools. Students of the Latino Law Student Association continually tutor and mention elementary school students at San Miguel Middle School. The Black Law Student Association (BLSA) offers a networking event for local attorneys to connect with TU Law students. The College of Law hosts an Expungement Expo, as a joint effort between the Public Interest Board, the Student Bar Association, BLSA, The Lobeck Taylor Community Advocacy Clinic, and local attorneys who volunteer their time, to assist Tulsa locals to obtain a second chance and a fresh start. TU Non-Discrimination Policy The University of Tulsa is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in education and employment. The University does not discriminate on the basis of personal status or group characteristic including, but not limited to individuals on the basis of race, color, religion, national or ethnic origin, age, gender, disability, veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, genetic information, ancestry, or marital status in the administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, employment policies, scholarship and loan programs, athletic, and other University administered programs. Inquiries about compliance should be addressed to the University’s Associate Vice President of Human Resources & Risk Management, Fisher Hall East Room 103, and 800 South Tucker Drive, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104. Diversity at TU Diversity for Incoming Class of 2021 50% women 49% men 1% gender nonconforming 32% underrepresented students 55% Non-Oklahoma permanent residents 23% First generation college students 36% nontraditional students 26 = average age 3% Veterans (as of September 1, 2021) Bios of diverse Faculty, Staff, key Alumni, and students. Warigia Bowman Kyla Currie Ido Kilovaty Johnny Parker Diverse Student Organizations Black Law Students Association Latino Law Student Association Native American Law Students Association OUTLaws Law Fam Women’s Law Caucus TU College of Law Student Bar Association TU News on Diversity Endowment honors legacy of beloved judge and mentor TU Law students honored at Oklahoma Bar Association annual meeting Making a difference for vulnerable children TU Law student deepens knowledge of federal Indian law during congressional internship TU Law students counsel immigrants detained by ICE TU Law student awarded prestigious diversity scholarship TU Law student named Most Outstanding Scholar at Muscogee (Creek) Nation Scholars Forum Legally proud: OutLaws student group advances LGBTQ+ community and equality TU Law student awarded prestigious Native American internship in Washington, DC 10th-anniversary women-in-law networking event 2019 Equity Awards to recognize outstanding University of Tulsa students, faculty and staff Law students connect with minority youth Student Bar Association elects new leadership Wiener clerking for Nat’l Center for Youth Law in Washington, D.C. KIPP Students learn About Careers in Law Cybersecurity law scholar Ido Kilovaty joins TU Law Warigia Bowman joins TU Law Alumna Immigration Attorney Name Fern Holland Award Winner International student calls upon experience as an immigrant in her legal studies Tulsa Area High School Students Learn about Legal Careers TU Law Selected Best Study Abroad Program Former Police Officer Earns Law Degree BLSA Students Dedicate Benches Judge Carlos Pathway to Law Academy TU Law Alumna Named Tulsa World 2017 People to Watch Lorena Rivas Named 2016 Woman of Distinction Dean Fox receives 2016 OBA diversity award 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT