Skip to Main Content NEWS GIVING GET INVOLVED RESOURCES CONTACT Search What are you searching for? Search Give Back to Texas Law Make a Gift Now Create an Impact Today and Tomorrow The most intractable challenges and the boldest opportunities require talented lawyers and leaders who are not only well educated, but who are shaped here at Texas Law. We train lawyers to think critically about the law as it is and to explore with intelligence and perspective the law as it could be. With your support for our students, faculty, clinics, programs and facilities, we will continue our strong traditions and ensure our excellence is there for future generations. Thank You From my classmates to the administrators to the faithful alumni like yourself, there is a clear dedication to cultivating the excellent environment of Texas Law. Without your generous support, I may not be here, this is true . . . but more importantly, without your generous support, I may not want to be here. So, thank you. — M. Taylor ’22 Texas Law Annual Fund Gifts to the Texas Law Annual Fund may be used to supplement scholarships and professorships, to advance pipeline programs, to enhance the student experience, to support the curriculum with new components, and to fund summer and postgraduate public service fellowships. Your gifts provide the Law School with the ability to invest in our highest priorities, undertake new initiatives and meet unanticipated needs. You can make a one time gift or you can give monthly to become a Sustaining Scholar. Additionally, your law firm is invited to participate in our 100% alumni giving challenge. Learn about Annual Giving societies and recognition. Make a Single Gift Now Set a Monthly Sustaining Gift Join the 100% Giving Challenge Scholarships & Loan Forgiveness For over 135 years, Texas Law has provided superior educational experiences and opportunities that are elite in quality but modest in cost. Historically, our students have graduated with a world-class education without the top-tier debt. Your gifts help ensure this legacy of excellence is preserved and strong as we welcome new generations of law students. Learn more about creating a named, Endowed Scholarship or Loan Forgiveness fund. Support Your Class Scholarship Give to General Scholarships Support Loan Forgiveness Explore Giving Options You can support Texas Law in any variety of ways. Whether by check, pledge, or planned gift in your will, your investment in Texas Law makes a tremendous impact. When you support Texas Law we will work with you to ensure both you and the Law School benefit. How to Make a Gift Now Plan a Legacy Gift Honoring Your Impact Each year we thank and celebrate our alumni and friends whose financial support helps maintain the excellence of the school. In appreciation of our generous and loyal supporters, we offer special recognition through a variety of giving societies. Distinguished Giving Societies Recognition Report Donor Stories Read more Greenberg Traurig Commits to Support Pipeline Program May 27, 2022 Alumni Alemán and Ochoa Make Legacy Challenge Gifts May 23, 2022 Vinson & Elkins Sponsors Texas Law’s Pipeline Program to Support Aspiring Lawyers January 12, 2022 Texas Law Celebrates Dee J. Kelly with Dedication of New Courtyard October 15, 2021 Contact Texas Law The University of Texas at Austin School of Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Helpful Links Texas Law Home UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Contact Us Policies Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible. Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram