× By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Toggle navigation Information for you: Skip to main content Prospective Students Admitted Students COVID-19 Preparedness For the Media International Apply Now Contact Admissions Give Now Search for: SEARCH Toggle navigation Main Menu Academics Academics J.D. Residential JDinteractive: Online J.D. Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) in American Law Centers & Institutes Experiential Courses, Clinics, & Externships Advocacy Training Academic Journals Course Descriptions Academic & Bar Support Registrar Events & Initiatives Calendars & Schedules Academic Handbook Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions JDinteractive: Online J.D. Program Transfer & Visiting Students Online J.D./M.B.A. Program LL.M. Admissions & Program Information S.J.D. Admissions & Program Information Two-Year J.D. Program for Foreign Law Graduates Diversity & Inclusion Office of International Programs Visit Syracuse University College of Law Admitted Students Veterans & Servicemembers Fast Facts ABA Required Disclosures Contact Admissions Financial Aid Financial Aid Types of Aid Cost of Attendance How to Apply for Financial Aid Financial Aid Policies & Resources Loan Repayment Financial Awareness for Law Students Contact Us Student Affairs Student Affairs Academic Success Accommodations & Accessibility Diversity & Inclusion Mentoring in Action Student Bar Association Student Organizations Forms Our Staff Student Service Request Form Exam Information Deans & Faculty Deans & Faculty Deans Faculty, Emeriti, and Instructors Career Services Career Services Statistics & ABA Employment Summaries Class of 2022 Graduate Employment Survey Students Employers Alumni Reciprocity Career Services Staff Law Library Law Library About the Library Collections Student Services Faculty Services Alumni & Visitor Services Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Alumni Alumni & Friends Dean’s Dispatch Newsletter Syracuse Law Magazine Law Alumni Weekend Alumni Events Syracuse Law Honors Awards College of Law Alumni of Color Awards Alumni Leadership Giving Back & Volunteering Class Notes ‘Cuse Community: The Alumni Directory Contact Us Celebrating Black History Month 2022 Celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month Make a gift Home Academics Centers & Institutes Disability Law and Policy Program Disability Law and Policy Program The Disability Law and Policy Program (DLPP) houses the nation’s first Joint Degree Program in Law and Disability Studies, a Curricular Program in Disability Law and Policy, and the Disability Rights Clinic as well as disability-related summer and semester-long externships in New York and Washington, DC. Led by Professor Arlene Kanter, DLPP is the most extensive disability-related law school program in the United States. Students who participate in this program often go on to jobs in the areas of disability, education, special education, children’s rights, civil rights, labor, employment, trusts and estates, and international human rights law. Graduates of DLPP now work for federal and state government agencies, private law firms, domestic and international non-governmental organizations, public interest law offices, legal services offices, school districts, policy organizations and think tanks. Other graduates have started their own law practices or pursued LL.M. or Ph.D. degrees. DLPP students also work in the College of Law’s Disability Rights Clinic, take disability-related courses, and work as interns and externs in disability-related placements in New York City, Washington, DC, and other cities in the US and throughout the world. “DLPP is the most extensive disability-related law school program in the United States, and perhaps the world,” says Professor Kanter, whose work outside of teaching included assisting the United Nations in drafting its Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD). The DLPP is recognized internationally for its excellence, having received the Prize for Innovative Practices for our innovative disability-related academic program at the Zero Project Conference, held at the United Nations Offices in Vienna, Austria, on Feb. 20, 2020. The Zero Project is an initiative of the Essl Foundation, whose mission is to create a world without barriers, as envisioned by the United Nations CRPD. The DLPP has been recognized internationally for its excellence, receiving the Prize for Innovative Practices for our innovative disability-related academic program at the Zero Project Conference, held at the United Nations Offices in Vienna, Austria, on Feb. 20, 2020. The Zero Project is an initiative of the Essl Foundation, whose mission is to create a world without barriers, as envisioned by the United Nations CRPD. Experts across the globe peer-reviewed more than 500 Zero Project-nominated projects, which focused on the topic of inclusive education. Of the nominees, 75 innovative practices and 11 innovative policies from 54 countries were selected. The DLPP was one of only three awarded programs in the United States and the only United States-based university program. Image Description: Professor Kanter, a white woman with brown should-length hair and glasses wearing black dress pants, a black dress jacket with buttons down the center and pearls stands in the corner of a room with white walls, surrounded by 14 students dressed in casual attire. To Professor Kanter’s immediate right, student Renci Xie a short woman wearing a black zipped coat and black pants, holds the Zero Project Award, a white certificate in a black frame. Disability Law and Policy Curricular Program Joint Degree Programs Law Alumni Weekend 2020 Courses Disability Rights Clinic Disability Law Society DLPP ANNOUNCES SU “Collaboration for Unprecedented Success and Excellence (‘CUSE) Grant” on the Effectiveness of Human Rights Treaties In 2019, Professor Arlene S. Kanter was awarded a Syracuse University Collaboration for Unprecedented Success and Excellence (‘CUSE) Grant with the following faculty collaborators: Professor Cora True Frost, College of Law Research Professor Corri Zoli, College of Law Professor Audie Klotz, Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Political Science) Assistant Professor Lamis E. Abdelaaty, Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Political Science) Associate Professor Michael Gill , School of Education (Disability Studies) Professor Anne Bellows , Falk College (Food Studies) FINAL WEBINAR: April 8, 2022 on “The Effectiveness of the UN Convention on the Right of People with Disabilities.” The College of Law will host the panel discussion, Effectiveness of the Convention on the Rights of People with Disabilities (CRPD) on Friday, April 8 from 9 a.m. to noon in the Collaboratory (room 130) in Dineen Hall. The CRPD was adopted by the UN in 2006 and has been ratified by 184 countries. This panel brings together leading international experts to discuss the effectiveness of the CRPD and whether and how it is making a difference in the lives of people with disabilities. MODERATORS: Professor Arlene Kanter (Law) and Professor Audie Klotz (Maxwell) Panelists: Dr. Gerard Quinn, U.N. Special Rapporteur on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Judith Heumann, Civil Rights Advocate and Former Special Advisor for International Disability Rights at the US Department of State (2010-2017) Akiko Ito, Chief, Secretariat for the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Silvia Quan, former member, U.N. Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and disability rights activist Eric Rosenthal, Founder and Executive Director of Disabilities Rights International This is a Syracuse University Collaboration for Unprecedented Success and Excellence (CUSE) Grant Event. CART will be provided. Contact Christy Ramsdell for accommodations: ceramsde@syr.edu Join on Zoom: https://syracuseuniversity.zoom.us/j/92212151452 ‘CUSE GRANT SPEAKERS Fall 2019-Spring 2022 J.D. Residential JDinteractive: Online J.D. Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) in American Law Centers & Institutes Burton Blatt Institute Disability Law and Policy Program Institute for the Study of the Judiciary, Politics & the Media Institute for Security Policy and Law Property, Citizenship, and Social Entrepreneurism Innovation Law Center Syracuse Intellectual Property Law Institute (SIPLI) Experiential Courses, Clinics, & Externships Advocacy Training Academic Journals Course Descriptions Academic & Bar Support Registrar Events & Initiatives Calendars & Schedules Academic Handbook Contact Us Welcome to... Syracuse University College of Law Dineen Hall 950 Irving Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244-6070 Map Facebook youtube twitter linkedin instagram News & Events Request a Transcript Event Scheduling and Room Request Fast Facts SU Home SU Bookstore SU Athletics Accessible Syracuse General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Information For: Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Alumni & Friends Media ©2022 All rights reserved.