Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Admissions and Financial Aid Admissions and Financial Aid Menu “The Best Place in the World to be a Law Student” — Lawdragon Campus Texas Law: a top-tier academic program, great career options, and a high quality of life. These are the elements that inspire us to call this the best place in the world to be a law student. But don't take our word for it—come see for yourself! Fall 2023 JD Application opens September 1 Admission Deadlines Apply Here Check Your Status Study at Texas Law With a degree from Texas Law, you can do anything, anywhere. J.D. Academics LL.M. Academics Dual & Combined Degrees Lawdragon: Texas Law Tops Lawdragon Campus's roundup of every law school in America says, "Texas Law is tops for us. There is no law school that can touch it within 1,154 miles in any direction, and it’s #1 in a state that mightily matters, and which it dominates." University of Texas Law School is tops for Lawdragon Campus – Here's Why Best Return on Investment It was no surprise to our alumni when U.S. News & World Report said Texas Law provided a better return on investment than any other law school in America, and the highest starting salary-to-debt ratio. U.S. News Ranks Texas Law #1 on Salary-to-Debt Ratio Tuition & Cost of Attendance Explore Employment Outcomes Texas Law Accepts GRE As a pilot program, Texas Law now accepts GRE scores on admissions applications. Learn more about how to include GRE test scores and how we use it in the admissions decision-making process by clicking on the links below. How to Apply Standardized Tests FAQ 3.80 Median GPA for Class of 2024 169 Median LSAT for Class of 2024 10:1 Student-to-Faculty Ratio $157,500 MEDIAN SALARY OF THE CLASS OF 2020 BASED ON 87% OF ALL FULL-TIME, LONG-TERM EMPLOYED GRADS REPORTING Read more Quick Facts Admissions and Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admissions Bulletin Application Procedures Admissions Deadlines Check Your Status Frequently Asked Questions Admitted Students Student Ambassadors Student Housing Life in Austin Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admission Transfer Admission Transient (Visiting) Admission Frequently Asked Questions Texas Law-ITAM Program LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Equity and Inclusion Contact Us The J.D. Bulletin Admissions Bulletin Download PDF Why Texas Law? Prestigious Faculty We have a faculty of brilliant scholars and committed teachers who care deeply about their students. From your first semester to the last, your classroom experiences here will be intense and transformative; they will change the way you think and prepare you for the sophisticated practice of law. Experiential Learning Texas Law has one of the most extensive array of experiential learning opportunities of any law school. Students gain hands-on experience through advocacy and legal writing programs, and clinics, internships and pro bono work. Alumni Mentoring Network One of the law school’s most valuable resources is our network of 25,000 alumni who are doing amazing and varied things around the world. The Texas Law Mentoring Program connects students to alumni, starting with the first day of law school. Society Program The Texas Law Society Program—the only program of its kind in the country—provides students with a small community of fellow first-year students, upperclass counselors, and faculty and alumni advisers. Judicial Clerkships Texas Law has a unique program that helps any interested second-year and third-year law students and alumni apply for judicial clerkships. This is why Texas Law places five times as many judicial clerks as the next law school in Texas. Life in Austin From the Austin City Limits music festival, to SxSW, the city is alive all year with cultural happenings and recreation. The combination of warm weather, a vibrant urban core, and lakes and parks everywhere creates a lifestyle that is hard to beat. Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.