Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Career Services Career Paths Career Services Menu Career Paths Use your time at Texas Law exploring career options and staying open to opportunities presented to you. Take time to attend our career exploration panels and workshops throughout the year and network with as many legal professionals as possible to learn more about the best career path for you. Law Firms A majority of Texas Law graduates began their careers in private practice, going to work for large, midsize, and small law firms. Whether you choose litigation or transactional work, you can undoubtedly find the right practice for you. Judicial Clerkships A judicial clerkship allows you to be a part of our judiciary, and ideally develop a mentor in a judge. It is a prestigious postgraduate position and often serves as a springboard to permanent positions with law firms or the public sector. Judicial Internships Judicial internships, many of which are available for academic credit, provide an opportunity for you to gain exposure to the judicial process and the inner workings of a court while in law school. Government Working in the government sector at the local, state, or federal level allows you to receive a great amount of responsibility, practical experience, and good benefits, which in turn may offer you a work-life balance. Public Interest/Public Defense Working as a public interest advocate or public defender can be an incredibly rewarding career. You can serve the public good through legal service providers, public defender offices, advocacy organizations, and more. Corporate/In-House Practicing law as in-house counsel allows you to serve only one client—the corporation. Because of the substance of the work, the work setting, and the potential for acting as both lawyer and businessperson, this could be a great career path to pursue. J.D. Advantage Whether you decide to practice law or not, your degree from Texas Law will be of value to you if pursuing a nontraditional career path. Our alums include entrepreneurs, politicians, managers, editors, television producers, and more. Academic Becoming a full-time law professor, adjunct or clinical faculty member, writing instructor, or dean can be a rewarding career teaching and mentoring the next generation of lawyers. Career Services Finding Employment Job Bank on Symplicity On-Campus Interview & Networking Programs Off-Campus Interview Programs Mock Interview Program Long Career Launch Program Fellowship Opportunities Out-of-State Job Search Intercollegiate Job Bank International LL.M. Job Fairs Additional Job Search Resources Grade Reports Transcript Generator for Symplicity Career Paths Law Firms Judicial Clerkships Judicial Internships Government Public Interest and Public Defense Corporate / In-House J.D. Advantage Academic Career Resources Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment by Geographic Location Five-Year Analysis by Employer Type Salary Statistics ABA Required Disclosures For Alumni For Employers Post a Job On-Campus Interview Programs Off-Campus Interview Programs Mock Interview Program Grade Reports Student Journals Student Organizations Academic Calendar Law School Events Calendar Nondiscrimination Policy Top Texas Law Graduate Hiring Employers Symplicity Login CSO Blog CSO on Twitter Contact Us Upcoming Events Jun 2 Demystifying OCI-Bidding to Interviewing 12:00pm–1:00pm Virtual Aug 22 Worker Rights in the Federal Judiciary 6:00pm–7:30pm Zoom More events Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.