Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > Law Journals Law Journals https://youtu.be/YKUi9fzNRuY?list=PLPfyKp474fm2LYyuyYuJ7aIcCs4UFMHjp Degree Programs A top value law school to prepare you for an exceptional future Sustainable Energy & Resources Law (SERL) Accelerated Enrollment Options Concurrent Enrollment Options Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice TU College of Law students have the opportunity to publish in three highly respected journals to enhance their academic experience. Students work directly with editors and distinguished contributors nationwide. Energy Law Journal The Energy Law Journal is a preeminent bi-annual energy publication. The journal reaches approximately 3,000 subscribers in the United States and 10 foreign countries, and has been cited by the United States Supreme Court as well as federal courts and agencies. Students are eligible to apply upon completion of their first year of law school to begin their candidacy in the fall semester. The Energy Law Journal enables students to gain valuable writing and editing skills that employers seek, while also offering numerous networking opportunities. Tulsa Law Review The Tulsa Law Review (TLR) has served as the flagship law journal for the College of Law since 1964. A student-run law review, TLR publishes scholarly works covering the full legal spectrum to stimulate critical thinking, provoke legal debate and guide the law in a direction that better serves our society. 3L editors manage the journal and 2L associate editors help edit issues and write notes or comments on topics of their choice. TLR publishes three issues each year. Two issues contain scholarly articles written by legal experts and select student works. Typically, the third issue contains book reviews. ABA-SEER TU Law students who participate in the Sustainable Energy and Resources Law (SERL) program have the opportunity to be published in the American Bar Association Section of Environment, Energy, and Resources (ABA-SEER) Year in Review. The ABA-SEER is one of the premier forums for environmental, energy, and resources students, educators, and lawyers. The website provides access to the most current and sophisticated analyses of complicated issues facing the United States and the world. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT