Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law Thinking about law school? Explore Degrees At The University of Tulsa College of Law you will find outstanding academic programs and faculty who are at the top of their fields. In everything we do, we embrace, promote and protect the values of community, civility and dialogue. Our goal is to create an intellectually vibrant and thriving learning community. Prepared. Practiced. Proven. The University of Tulsa College of Law delivers an academically rigorous and professionally impactful JD program, including an array of internships, externships and legal clinics opportunities. TU Law graduates are in the Top 20 for ultimate bar passage (ABA) and go on to rewarding careers across the country. We are also a Top 5 Best Value private law school and a Top 25 Best Value law school among both public and private institutions (preLaw). About TU Law Degree programs Student services Faculty Contact us We cannot forget that as a nation we have not recovered from the 200+ years of the disease that is racism, which has transformed and infected our social structures. Read the full statement from TU’s Office of Diversity & Engagement, Admission Admission to TU Law is conducted on a rolling basis with year-round starts: in the fall, spring and summer. In whichever term you intend to begin, be sure to apply for one of our application-fee waivers. Juris Doctor Accelerated JD My time in the Boesche Legal Clinic honed my lawyering skills. It also inspired me to open a practice after graduation that’s focused on individuals who traditionally have not had access to legal services. Cordal Cephas, JD '19 Experiential learning TU Law offers a welcoming atmosphere in which students become practice-ready. In addition to our intellectually rich and engaging courses, you will find many experiential learning opportunities that appeal to people with diverse talents, backgrounds and interests. Legal clinics Externships Law journals My environmental law and policy externship in Austin, Texas, exceeded my expectations. It helped me wrap up my legal education in a practical and worthwhile experience. Mitchell Lovett, JD '19 News All News Stories Cherokee Nation attorney general to speak at Hooding Ceremony Sara Hill (JD ’03), the attorney general of the Cherokee Nation, will address the graduands at the College of Law’s May 2022 Hooding Ceremony. In conversation with Chancellor Allison Garrett Fresh from serving as the president of Emporia State University, TU Law alumna Allison Garrett (JD ’87) is now chancellor of the Oklahoma state system of higher education. Gaining an insider’s perspective on the federal court system In conversation with TU Law’s new dean TU Law recognized by White House, DoJ for eviction prevention work TU Law students receive top honors TU Law alumna becomes Tulsa’s deputy mayor 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT