Skip Navigation Yale Law School Alumni Faculty Staff Students COVID-19 Studying Law at Yale Our Faculty Centers & Workshops Student Life Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions & Financial Aid JD Admissions Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Nondiscrimination, Title IX, and Clery Act Statements Virtual Tour YLS Today YLS Today News Events In The Press Videos Reports & Publications Social Media Media Inquiries Submit an Event Search Search Menu Studying Law at Yale Areas of Interest Degree Programs Clinical and Experiential Learning Courses Academic Calendar & Resources Alumni & Student Profiles Law Library The Tsai Leadership Program Our Faculty Faculty Lecturers & Affiliates Faculty Activities & Scholarship Student Life Our School & Location Student Services Career Development Health & Wellness Student News & Opinion Programs and Opportunities Student Journals & Organizations Discrimination and Harassment Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Policies, Resources, and Reporting Search Search Studying Law at Yale back Studying Law at Yale Areas of Interest Degree Programs Clinical and Experiential Learning Courses Academic Calendar & Resources Alumni & Student Profiles Law Library The Tsai Leadership Program Our Faculty back Our Faculty Faculty Lecturers & Affiliates Faculty Activities & Scholarship Centers & Workshops Student Life back Student Life Our School & Location Student Services Career Development Health & Wellness Student News & Opinion Programs and Opportunities Student Journals & Organizations Discrimination and Harassment Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Policies, Resources, and Reporting Admissions & Financial Aid back Admissions & Financial Aid JD Admissions Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Nondiscrimination, Title IX, and Clery Act Statements Virtual Tour YLS Today back YLS Today News Events In The Press Videos Reports & Publications Social Media Media Inquiries Submit an Event Alumni Faculty Staff Students COVID-19 Watch video from the ceremony Celebrating the Class of 2022 Graduates were recognized for their strength and tenacity at Commencement ceremonies on May 23 Explore Our Clinics 50 Years of Clinics Yale Law School’s clinical program recently celebrated five decades of pathbreaking work Explore Admissions Take a Virtual Tour Discover our beautiful campus and learn more about the rich and vibrant intellectual environment at Yale Law School Previous Next Areas of Interest Yale Law School Today Yale Law School Today Featured Featured News Events Videos In The Press Featured News Events Videos In The Press Wednesday, May 18, 2022 News If Students Can Hack This Course, They’re Ready for Information Age Lawyering To one day tackle cybersecurity issues, students in a Yale Law School class learn how to hack. Thursday, May 19, 2022 News Professor Bell on Inequality, Sociology, and Legal Estrangement Tuesday, May 24, 2022 News Professor Rodríguez Elected to American Law Institute Council Wednesday, May 25, 2022 News MFIA Litigation Aims to Fix State Department’s FOIA Delays Monday, May 02, 2022 News New Report Refutes Flawed Science of Texas and Alabama Transgender Legal Actions Load More View All Featured Thursday, May 26, 2022 State Rep. Patrick Callahan, Liman Center Director Jenny Carroll, Ryanne Bamieh ’23, and Mila Reed-Guevara ’23 are shown at the Connecticut State Capitol for a meeting to discuss the repeal of Connecticut’s incarceration lien, under which the state can claim money from people who have served time in jail and prison. The Liman Center and partners helped pass a law that places limits on the lien. News Liman Center and Coalition Lessen the Harm of Connecticut’s Incarceration Lien Law Wednesday, May 25, 2022 The Department of State in Washington, D.C. The Media Freedom and Information Access Clinic is challenging the department's slow responses to Freedom of Information Act requests. News MFIA Litigation Aims to Fix State Department’s FOIA Delays Tuesday, May 24, 2022 News Professor Rodríguez Elected to American Law Institute Council Monday, May 23, 2022 News ISP and Abrams Institute Hold 10th Annual Freedom of Expression Scholars Conference Monday, May 23, 2022 Law School student marshals began the day’s ceremonies with a procession to Yale’s Old Campus News A Celebration of the Class of 2022 — Strength, Tradition, and Community Thursday, May 19, 2022 The facade of the Treasury Department. © 2010 Eric Weaver via Creative Commons. News Professor Liscow on Taxation, Teaching, and a New Approach to Behavioral Economics Show More View All News View All Events Wednesday, May 25, 2022 Videos Yale Law School Commencement 2022 1:44:31 Thursday, May 19, 2022 Videos Alumni Ceremony for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 1:20:06 Wednesday, May 18, 2022 Videos Drew Saunders Days III ’66: A Remembrance and Celebration 59:14 Tuesday, May 3, 2022 Videos Chai Feldblum: Transforming Employment for People with Significant Disabilities 55:06 Tuesday, May 3, 2022 Videos Ed Yong: Normal Led to This: On Two Years of Covering The Pandemic 32:47 Tuesday, May 3, 2022 Videos Paul Tucker: Regulating for International Economic Resilience During Fractured Geopolitics 1:05:19 Show More View All Videos Tuesday, May 24, 2022 In The Press New York’s Red-Flag Law Failed in Buffalo. Here’s How to Fix It. — A Commentary by Ian Ayres ’86 and Fredrick Vars ’99 The Washington Post Ian Ayres ’86 is Deputy Dean and Oscar M. Ruebhausen Professor of Law at Yale Law School. Frederick Vars ’99 is Ira Drayton Pruitt, Sr. Professor of Law at the University of Alabama School of Law. Tuesday, May 24, 2022 In The Press A Conservative Lawyer’s New Target After Abortion: Affirmative Action The New York Times Robert R. Slaughter Professor of Law Justin Driver is quoted about a challenge to affirmative action law in Texas. Tuesday, May 24, 2022 In The Press Abortion Questions for Justice Alito and His Supreme Court Allies — A Commentary by Linda Greenhouse ’78 MSL The New York Times Linda Greenhouse ’78 MSL is a Clinical Lecturer in Law and a Senior Research Scholar in Law at Yale Law School. Monday, May 23, 2022 In The Press SEC Prepares to Crack Down on Misleading ESG Investment Claims Financial Times Sam Harris Professor of Corporate Law, Corporate Finance and Securities Law Jonathan Macey ’82 discusses rules being prepared by the SEC to define the criteria of an environmental, social, and governance (ESG) investment fund. Monday, May 23, 2022 In The Press Two Law Professors Hope to Keep Prisons from Reclaiming Pandemic Parolees WSHU Clinical Associate Professor Marisol Orihuela ’08 spoke about inmates whose pandemic-related home confinement was revoked due to minor offenses. Friday, May 20, 2022 In The Press America Almost Took a Different Path Toward Abortion Rights The New York Times Work by Nicholas deB. Katzenbach Professor of Law Reva Siegel is mentioned in a story on the history of abortion rights in America. Show More View All In The Press Explore Areas of Interest All Areas of Interest View All Constitutional Law Corporate & Commercial Law Criminal Justice Environmental Law Human Rights Law International Law IT & Media Law Law & Economics Law & Health Law Teaching Legal History Public Interest Law Public Interest Law Yale Law School has a strong tradition of service in the public interest. Most YLS students perform public service activities during their time here. View Public Interest Law Environmental Law Outstanding faculty, new curricular offerings, and strong partnerships are part of our expanded environmental law and policy program. View Environmental Law International Law The Law School’s longstanding international tradition occupies a central place in its intellectual life. View International Law “ “ I am proud to say that Yale manages to open doors that are unexpected for many foreign law students.” Diane Desierto ’09 LLM, ’11 JSD Contact About Us Virtual Tour Give Now Vimeo Linkedin Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube 127 Wall Street New Haven, CT 06511 203.432.4992 News Events Media Contacts Offices & Services Law Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Yale Directory Yale University Homepage © Yale Law School Contact Webmaster Web Accessibility Privacy Policy Emergency Info This website is supported by the Oscar M. Ruebhausen Fund at Yale Law School