Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS School of Law myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Why KU Law Dean's Message News and Events Select to follow link News Calendar Lectures & Conferences KU Law Magazine Dean's Note Communications Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Select to follow link Advisory Committees Diversity in Law Banquet Prelaw Programs History Select to follow link Traditions Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Resources for the Public Select to follow link Income Tax Assistance Legal Aid Medical-Legal Assistance Post-Conviction Appeals Contact Academics Select to follow link Degree Programs Select to follow link J.D. Program Select to follow link Degree Requirements - J.D. Program 2-Year J.D. Select to follow link Program Structure - 2-Year J.D. LL.M. in American Legal Studies Select to follow link Curriculum - LL.M. in American Legal Studies Doctor of Juridical Science (S.J.D.) Select to follow link Program Information - S.J.D. Joint Degrees Select to follow link JD/MBA (Business) JD/MA in East Asian Languages and Cultures JD/MA in Economics JD/MHSA (Health Services Administration) JD/MA in Indigenous Studies JD/MS in Journalism JD/MA in Philosophy JD/MA in Political Science JD/MPA (Public Administration) JD/MSW (Social Work) JD/MUP (Urban Planning) MS in Homeland Security Graduate Certificate in Homeland Security Areas of Study Select to follow link Business & Commercial Law Civil Litigation Constitutional Law Criminal Law Environment, Energy & Natural Resources General Practice Intellectual Property Law International & Comparative Law Litigation Media, Law & Technology Public Law Tax Law Tribal Law Hands-On Learning Select to follow link Clinics Select to follow link Legal Aid Clinic Mediation Clinic Project for Innocence Tribal Judicial Support Clinic Field Placements Select to follow link Criminal Prosecution Field Placement Elder Law Field Placement Field Placement Program Judicial Field Placement Medical-Legal Partnership Field Placement Skills Simulations Pro Bono Program Moot Court Program Mock Trial Program Kansas Journal of Law & Public Policy Kansas Law Review 6th Semester in D.C. Program Courses Select to follow link First-Year Curriculum Online Catalog >> Certificates Select to follow link Advocacy Skills Certificate Business & Commercial Law Certificate Environment, Energy & Natural Resources Law Certificate International Trade & Finance Certificate Media, Law and Technology Certificate Social Justice Certificate Tax Law Certificate Tribal Lawyer Certificate Centers Select to follow link Polsinelli Transactional Law Center Shook, Hardy & Bacon Center for Excellence in Advocacy Tribal Law & Government Center The Dru Mort Sampson Center for Diversity and Inclusion Global Programs Select to follow link Study Abroad Select to follow link Ireland Program Istanbul Program Trento, Italy Aberdeen, Scotland International Partners Visiting Scholars Program Admissions Select to follow link Apply Select to follow link J.D. Applicants Select to follow link Fee Waivers Two-Year J.D. Applicants LL.M. Applicants S.J.D. Applicants Transfer Students Visiting Students Admissions FAQ Visit & Connect Select to follow link Visit KU Law Admissions Events KU Law Video Series Tuition & Scholarships Select to follow link Tuition, Fees & Residency Financial Aid Scholarships Select to follow link Law Scholarship Application Private Scholarships Loan Repayment International Student Admissions Select to follow link Legal English Program Summer Start Student Ambassadors Class Profile LEAD Program Admitted Students Select to follow link Next Steps for Admitted Students Dates & Deadlines Admitted Students Events Select to follow link Admitted Students Weekend Entering Student Program Life at KU Law Life in Lawrence Housing & Child Care Careers Select to follow link Career Resources for Students Select to follow link Application Materials Boot Camp Interview Resources Job Searches Networking Skills Professionalism Career Resources for Alumni Select to follow link Reciprocity Resources for Employers Select to follow link Hire KU Law Interview Programs Career Programs and Events Select to follow link Career Development Programs Clerkships Employment Data Select to follow link Graduate Employment Statistics Select to follow link Employment Statistics Text Version Where Our Alumni Go Bar Exam Performance Symplicity CSO Newsletter Faculty & Research Select to follow link Faculty Profiles Administration Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Library Faculty Staff Research & Scholarship Select to follow link Faculty News Faculty Media Coverage Current Students Select to follow link Academic Resources Select to follow link Enrollment and Course Schedules Select to follow link Academic Calendar Class Schedule Enrollment Instructions Tentative Future Course Offerings Exam Information First-Day Assignments Prerequisites Legal Intern Practice Rule Academic Policies Select to follow link Academic Regulations Determination of Credit Hours for Coursework Disability Accommodations Dispute Resolution Policy Honor Code Records Requests Student Complaints Student Learning Outcomes Student Services Select to follow link Dean's Fellows Health & Wellness Technology Support Bar Exam Information Select to follow link Bar Exam Application Bar Exam Preparation Graduation Student Organizations KU Law Updates & Resources Alumni Select to follow link Alumni Events Select to follow link Reunions U.S. Supreme Court Swearing-In Ceremony Alumni Services Volunteer Select to follow link Board of Governors Distinguished Alumni Give to KU Law Keep In Touch Alumni Directory Library Select to follow link Library Hours Research & Study Guides Legal Databases User Services & Policies Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan Request Ask a Law Librarian About the Library Select to follow link Library Newsletter Fall 2021 Faculty Publications Library Catalog >> Directory Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Public myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo School of Law Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Academics Degree Programs Become a Jayhawk Lawyer As a KU Law student, you will gain the knowledge and practice-ready skills to achieve your goals. Students can build connections with nationally recognized legal scholars and gain experience through clinics, field placements and skills simulations. List Juris Doctor (J.D.) The J.D. program at KU Law prepares students to be outstanding members of the legal profession. Learn the foundations of the law in the classroom, then gain hands-on experience to begin your career ready for practice. Joint Degrees KU Law offers 11 joint degree programs that allow students to simultaneously pursue a Juris Doctor and an additional graduate degree. Programs include social work, economics, urban planning, public administration and journalism. Two-Year J.D. for Foreign-Trained Lawyers The Two-Year J.D. for Foreign-Trained Lawyers is for students who already hold a foreign law degree. The program prepares attorneys to compete in a global economy with full credentials in the U.S. International LL.M. The Master of Laws (LL.M.) in American Legal Studies provides students who already hold a law degree with an introduction to the breadth of American law. Prepare for further law study in the U.S. and select bar exams. Doctor of Juridical Science (S.J.D.) The Doctor of Juridical Science (S.J.D.) program is designed for students interested in deep legal research and writing, and a career as a legal scholar or senior public official. M.S. in Homeland Security Whether you're a military officer, government official or private sector employee, the Master of Science in Homeland Security: Law & Policy degree will advance your technical expertise in the complex field of homeland security. Homeland Security Certificate Students interested in supplementing their education with an additional level of expertise in homeland security and cyber law can earn the 12-credit hour, online Graduate Certificate in Homeland Security: Law & Policy. Contact KU Law Admissions 103 Green Hall admitlaw@ku.edu 866-220-3654 Admissions Calendar See all events Academic Resources Academic Regulations Areas of Study Certificates Courses Degree Programs Enrollment Information Global Programs Hands-On Learning Resources for Current Students Get started Ready to discover the value of a degree from KU Law? Start your application, schedule a visit and learn why KU Law is a great place to be. Apply Apply Visit & Connect Visit & Connect Why KU Law Why KU Law Green Hall 1535 W. 15th Street Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 30, 41, 43 admitlaw@ku.edu 785-864-4550 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Apply to KU Law Visit KU Law Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Wheat Law Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.