Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Career Services Finding Employment Career Services Menu Finding Employment Each year, more than 700 legal employer offices worldwide recruit Texas Law students through our on- and off-campus interview programs. Additionally, on average, more than 1,500 part-time, summer, and postgraduate jobs are listed annually in our online job bank. Resources for 3Ls and Recent Grads Seeking Employment (UT-EID) Alumni Resources Job Bank on Symplicity We encourage you to visit the Job Bank on Symplicity often and subscribe to the “CSO Jobs of the Week” weekly Law Mail. On-Campus Interviews & Networking Programs In the fall, we host on-campus interviews for 2Ls, 3Ls, LL.Ms., and recent grads, and in the spring our interview programs are open to all Texas Law students, including 1Ls. Additionally, we host networking programs for all Texas Law students both semesters. Public Service Expo and Public Service Career Fair In the fall, we host the Public Service Expo, and in the spring, the Public Service Career Fair to all Texas Law students. Off-Campus Interview Programs Texas Law students can participate in any of the more than 20 off-campus interview programs nationwide in cities including Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles, Miami, New York, Philadelphia, San Francisco, and Washington, D.C., to name a few. Mock Interviews Practice your interviewing skills with career counselors during the Summer Interview Prep program with career counselors in July and August, and with attorneys during the Mock Interview Program for 1Ls in November. In addition, you may schedule a personal mock interview with our career counselors anytime throughout the year by contacting the CSO Front Desk at 512-232-1150 or cso@law.utexas.edu. Diversity Opportunities In addition to diversity off-campus interview programs, many law firms offer diversity summer clerkships and scholarships. International J.D. Students Career Services We’re dedicated to helping international J.D. students with their career goals by offering the full range of career services available to domestic J.D. students. Please connect with a career counselor to learn more. We also recommend making yourself familiar with employment visa options and restrictions relevant to international students such as the CPT and OPT visas. International LL.M. Students Career Services We’re dedicated to helping all students at the law school including those who are working towards their LL.M. degree. Learn more about the foreign-trained LL.M. career services we provide. Out-of-State Job Search Learn how to conduct an out-of-state job search by developing an individualized plan for the market in which you’re interested. Summer and Postgraduate Fellowships You may search for both summer and postgraduate fellowships by employer type, term type, class years eligible, as well as those for diversity groups. Request Reciprocity with other Law Schools If you are a Texas Law student or alumnus, the CSO will facilitate reciprocity requests from other ABA-accredited law school that accord reciprocal services to Texas Law. Intercollegiate Job Bank The Intercollegiate Job Bank lists graduate job bulletins from more than 110 law schools throughout the U.S. While the majority of these job postings are for recent graduates and alumni, many list jobs available to 3Ls. HireTexas Access HireUTexas powered by Handshake to search for career-related and professionally oriented job and internship opportunities with employers seeking to hire UT-Austin students and alumni. HireUTexas is especially helpful for those seeking nonpracticing careers. Career Services Finding Employment Job Bank on Symplicity On-Campus Interview & Networking Programs Off-Campus Interview Programs Mock Interview Program Long Career Launch Program Fellowship Opportunities Out-of-State Job Search Intercollegiate Job Bank International LL.M. Job Fairs Additional Job Search Resources Grade Reports Transcript Generator for Symplicity Career Paths Law Firms Judicial Clerkships Judicial Internships Government Public Interest and Public Defense Corporate / In-House J.D. Advantage Academic Career Resources Judicial Clerkships Employment Statistics Employment by Geographic Location Five-Year Analysis by Employer Type Salary Statistics ABA Required Disclosures For Alumni For Employers Post a Job On-Campus Interview Programs Off-Campus Interview Programs Mock Interview Program Grade Reports Student Journals Student Organizations Academic Calendar Law School Events Calendar Nondiscrimination Policy Top Texas Law Graduate Hiring Employers Symplicity Login CSO Blog CSO on Twitter Contact Us Upcoming Events Jun 2 Demystifying OCI-Bidding to Interviewing 12:00pm–1:00pm Virtual Aug 22 Worker Rights in the Federal Judiciary 6:00pm–7:30pm Zoom More events Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.