Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > Student Services > Public Interest/Pro Bono Public Interest/Pro Bono https://youtu.be/Yyw3JGsOSGQ?list=PLPfyKp474fm2LYyuyYuJ7aIcCs4UFMHjp STUDENT SERVICES Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Student Organizations Public Interest/Pro Bono Housing, Dining and Parking Admitted Students First-year law students serving the community by volunteering at the Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma. The Public Interest Board is a student-run organization at The University of Tulsa College of Law that involves students in community service, public service, and pro bono work as they progress through their legal education. Students assist the underserved and underrepresented in the Tulsa community. During a semester, students log approximately 6,000 hours (equivalent to more than 22 weeks of full-time work) in public interest service. TU College of Law believes in instilling a life-long commitment to public service by assisting clients with unmet legal needs and enabling public service organizations and individual lawyers to accept more public service cases. Incoming students participate in public service day during Foundations of Legal Study week (orientation), and numerous school-wide events are held throughout each year. Additionally, students who volunteer at local non-profit organizations during the summer are eligible to receive public interest law stipends to assist them financially during their endeavors. Click here to donate to the Summer Stipend Program Please select ‘College of Law’ and in ‘Additional Notes’ please include ‘PIB.’ Without those two designations, the donation will not go to the Public Interest Board. Thank you. Each student becomes a member of the Public Interest Board upon enrollment at TU Law and is encouraged to complete 60 or more hours of community service prior to graduation in order to receive service honors. The program is designed to mirror both the American Bar Association’s Rule 6.1 and the ideals behind the Oklahoma Bar Association’s notion that a lawyer has a responsibility to the public. The University of Tulsa College of Law Public Service Program cannot provide direct legal advice or legal services to members of the general public. Law student volunteers must be supervised by a law school faculty member or licensed attorney. For further assistance in obtaining an attorney, please contact the Oklahoma State Bar Lawyer Referral Service or the Tulsa County Bar Association Lawyer Referral Program. Executive Board of the Public Interest The Executive Board of the Public Interest Board advises students interest in pursuing public interest involvement, and supervises all student-run pro bono and community service projects. The Board attempts to organize events that provide students with experiential learning opportunities that stress the value of service in the legal community. Pro Bono & Public Service History 2018 summary Pro bono and public service: 3,752 hours Pro bono and public service through legal externships: 11,880 Legal clinics: 16,485 hours Total 2018: 32,117 hours 2017 summary Pro bono and public service: 3,159 hours Pro bono and public service through legal externships: 8,777 hours Legal clinics: 19,970 hours Total 2017: 31,906 hours 2016 summary Pro bono and public service: 5,928 hours Boesche Legal Clinic: 19,970 hours Pro bono and public service through legal externships: 11,455 Total: 37,353 hours 2015 summary Pro bono and public service: 2,610 hours Boesche Legal Clinic: 19,920 hours Pro bono and public service through legal externships: 9,540 Total: 32,070 hours 2014 summary Pro bono and public service: 2,449 hours Boesche Legal Clinic: 6,000 hours Pro bono and public service through legal externships: 8,730 hours Total: 17,170 hours Recent Notable Pro Bono & Public Service Partners Murdock Villa Catholic Charities Community Food Bank of Eastern Oklahoma Legal Aid Services of Oklahoma Tulsa Lawyers for Children Iron Gate Ministries Lawyers Fighting Hunger Court Appointed Special Advocates Tulsa Area United Way Rescued ‘n Ready 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT