Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame The Law School Menu Search Search About Academics Admissions Faculty & Scholarship Student Life Professional Life News & Events Contact Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Admissions Why choose Notre Dame Law? A Notre Dame Lawyer embodies the characteristics of exceptional moral and ethical standards, extraordinary ability, and a compassion for others. With the honor of a Notre Dame degree comes the responsibility to maintain this distinct reputation. A Notre Dame degree is recognized by employers worldwide. It provides an open door into all sectors of legal employment. You can shape public policy as a practicing lawyer, public servant, judge, innovator in business or in the nonprofit world, among many other career options. Notre Dame Law School also offers advanced degrees: a world-renowned LL.M. in International Human Rights, an LL.M. available at both Notre Dame's main campus in South Bend and the Notre Dame London Global Gateway, and a J.S.D. program that allows students to pursue their scholarly interests in any legal topic. Our strength in both legal theory and practical skills training, the proactive approach of the Career Development Office, the extensive and extremely dedicated alumni network, and the reputation of the Law School and the University all combine to make a Notre Dame legal education an outstanding foundation for achieving your personal and professional goals. Are you ready to be a different kind of lawyer? Click here to connect with our admissions staff. Please send general inquiries to lawadmit@nd.edu. Apply Now Connect with J.D. Students Visit Campus ND Law in your Area Incoming Class Profile 183 in the first-year J.D. class 3.77 median undergraduate GPA 168 median LSAT score 33% students of color 117 undergraduate colleges and universities represented More About Our Current Class Tuition and Financial Support Law school is a major investment in your future. A Notre Dame legal education will provide training from premier academic faculty, opportunities experiential learning, a dedicated Career Development Office, and membership in one of the strongest alumni networks in the country. Yet, many students find Notre Dame Law School to be affordable, especially when compared to similar institutions in large cities. Many students live well beneath the maximum amount the budget allows in part because South Bend’s cost of living is quite low. Housing costs are far below what they are in other markets, and can be even easier to manage when sharing housing. Learn More about tuition and financial support Apply Now Educating a different kind of lawyer begins with a different kind of application process. While many of the required aspects of your application to Notre Dame's J.D. program are similar to other law schools, the way we review you will feel different. Our application process goes well beyond scores and extracurricular accomplishments, because these alone don’t fully indicate whether you’re up for the challenge of serving the greater good. Our process is designed to give you the information you need to make an informed decision, and determine if Notre Dame is the best fit for your personal and professional goals. The result of our highly selective admissions process is a small, well-rounded class with a variety of backgrounds and experiences—a class made up of some of the best and brightest candidates in the country. Learn More about how to apply For Transfer and Visiting Students For Exchange Students For Admitted Students ABA Required Disclosures Home About Academics Admissions Class Profile Connect Tuition & Aid Apply Transfers & Visiting Students Exchange Students On Campus For Admitted Students For Readmission Faculty & Scholarship Student Life Professional Life News & Events Contact Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Class Profile Connect Tuition & Aid Apply Transfers & Visiting Students Exchange Students On Campus For Admitted Students For Readmission Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame The Law School Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Contact Accessibility Information Annual Clery & Fire Safety Reports Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Today@NDLS