Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Admissions and Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admission Transient (Visiting) Admission Admissions and Financial Aid Menu Transient (Visiting) Admission Texas Law grants a very limited number of requests to exceptional candidates who have demonstrated academic excellence who wish to visit the law school for one or two academic semesters during the fall, spring, or summer (subject to course offerings) terms. Applicants must also present compelling reasons to attend Texas Law. Admission Policies To be considered for admissions at Texas Law as a transient student, an applicant must have completed the first-year curriculum in good academic standing at a law school that is accredited by the American Bar Association and a member of the Association of American Law Schools and register with the Law School Admission Council (LSAC). APPLICATION DEADLINES* Summer Semester April 1: Application opens May 15: Application deadline *Please note: Classes will not be offered Summer 2022 Fall Semester May 1: Application opens June 15: Application deadline Spring Semester September 1: Application opens November 15: Application deadline *Please contact the Admissions Office to confirm whether courses will be available to visiting students before submitting an application. We are unable to refund any application fees. ACADEMIC CREDITS Visiting students are subject to all the rules and regulations set by The University of Texas and the School of Law. Visiting students must be registered for the minimum full-time credit load, which is at least ten (10) credit hours during the fall or spring semesters, and at least six (6) credit hours during the summer session(s). At the same time, visiting students may earn no more than 32 semester hours of credit in no more than three semesters and must maintain a grade point average of at least 1.90 in all law courses taken during any semester. Please note that Texas Law cannot guarantee that specific courses you wish to take, or specific professors under whom you want to study, will be available. Priority enrollment is given to current Texas Law students and please be aware that popular courses are often oversubscribed. A visiting student is not allowed to petition for enrollment in oversubscribed courses. STATEMENT OF NON-DISCRIMINATION AND EQUAL EDUCATION OPPORTUNITY The University of Texas at Austin is committed to an educational and working environment that provides equal opportunity to all members of the university community. In accordance with federal and state laws, The University of Texas at Austin does not discriminate on the basis of gender in recruitment or admissions and prohibits unlawful discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, gender, age, disability, citizenship and veteran status. Discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression is also prohibited pursuant to university policy. For more information, please visit here. APPLICANT RESPONSIBILITY AND ACCURACY OF INFORMATION Applicants are under a continued obligation to notify the law school immediately of any and all circumstances and events that may occur from the date an application is submitted to the first day of enrollment that may change any of the responses to their application. Texas Law reserves the right to rescind an offer of admission if the candidate fails to maintain satisfactory scholastic standing for work in progress, if final records fail to show completion of courses and/or degrees required for admission or if the admission decision was based on incomplete, inaccurate, omitted or misleading information furnished by the applicant. In addition, the law school may also report its findings to LSAC’s Misconduct and Irregularities Committee. CHARACTER AND MORAL FITNESS Applicants who have been convicted of a felony or other serious crime are eligible for admission into the law school; however, because state bar associations often prohibit persons with criminal records from being admitted to the bar regardless of their degrees or training, it may be impossible for such individuals to practice in some states. In addition to the bar examination, there are character, fitness and other qualifications for admission to the bar in every U.S. jurisdiction. Applicants are encouraged to determine the requirements for any jurisdiction in which they intend to seek admission by contacting the jurisdiction. Addresses for all relevant agencies are available through the National Conference of Bar Examiners. Application Procedures To apply for admission as a visiting student, please submit the following required materials: Application Fee: A $70 nonrefundable application fee will be collected through LSAC at the time the application is submitted. Statement on Visiting: Please provide a statement that describes your professional pursuits and the compelling reasons why you wish to visit Texas Law. Your statement may not exceed two (2) double-spaced pages with a minimum 11-point font size and 1-inch margins. Résumé: Please provide a résumé detailing any significant vocational, avocational, extracurricular, or community activities; graduate work or degree; honors and awards; any service in the Armed Forces; job descriptions and major areas of responsibility, along with location (city and state) and dates of employment; publications, or other information that you believe the Admissions Committee should consider in evaluating your application. Your résumé may not exceed three (3) pages. Statement of Good Academic Standing: Please arrange for your law school’s registrar or academic dean to provide a statement indicating (1) your academic standing at your law school and (2) the number of credits you are permitted to pursue at Texas Law. This statement can be sent directly to admissions@law.utexas.edu. Law School Transcript: Please arrange for your official law school transcript to be sent directly to admissions@law.utexas.edu. An application will be considered complete and ready for review only when all the required items have been received. It is the applicant’s responsibility to ensure all application materials have been submitted and received at the law school. Admissions and Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admissions Bulletin Application Procedures Admissions Deadlines Check Your Status Frequently Asked Questions Admitted Students Student Ambassadors Student Housing Life in Austin Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admission Transfer Admission Transient (Visiting) Admission Frequently Asked Questions Texas Law-ITAM Program LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Equity and Inclusion Contact Us The J.D. Bulletin Admissions Bulletin Download PDF Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.