Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Master of Laws (LL.M.) Application Information Master of Laws (LL.M.) Menu Application Information The LL.M. Program requires applicants to have a first professional degree in law. Applicants with a foreign law degree can check the Law School Admission Council LL.M. Eligibility Chart for degree requirements by country to see if they are eligible for our program. The LL.M. Program does not accept applications from graduates of distance learning and online law programs or U.S. J.D. programs not approved by the American Bar Association. The LL.M. Program currently has 25 spots for each incoming class. Live Virtual Admissions Information Sessions We hope that you will join us for an upcoming virtual admissions information sessions. Admissions sessions are offered once a month on Wednesdays. You will need a computer or mobile device and an internet connection to access virtual sessions. You must also download the Zoom app and create a Zoom account. Register for an upcoming virtual session. Note that all times are Central Daylight Time. Application Requirements and Deadlines LL.M. applications must be submitted through the Law School Admission Council (LSAC). The application opens on September 1 and is due by March 1 for priority consideration. All applicants must purchase the LLM Credential Assembly Service (LLM CAS). Applicants with a foreign law degree must also purchase the International Transcript Authentication and Evaluation Service (ITAES). If you plan to apply for internal third-party scholarships for admitted students, you should submit your application for admission by December 1. Application Requirements and COVID-19 Starting in January 2021, LSAC is accepting transcripts emailed to them as unencrypted PDF attachments on a case-by-case basis. To confirm whether LSAC will accept emailed unencrypted PDF transcripts from your institution, email llminfo@LSAC.org. English Requirements Applicants with a foreign law degree must also demonstrate English proficiency by taking the TOEFL iBT (internet-based test) or IELTS Academic. TOEFL iBT and IELTS Academic score reports are valid for two years, and scores will be considered expired if the test was taken more than two years prior to the submission of the application. Non-native English-speaking LL.M. students who submit a TOEFL iBT or IELTS Academic score receive extended time on exams. The LL.M. Program does not accept the Duolingo English Test, the IELTS General Training test, MyBest scores for the TOELF iBT test, the TOEFL Essentials test, or the TOEFL ITP. Applicants are exempt from submitting a TOEFL iBT or IELTS Academic score if they hold a first professional degree in law from a university where English is the medium of instruction. These countries include: Australia, Canada (excluding Quebec), Ireland, New Zealand, South Africa (English-medium universities), the United Kingdom, and the United States. An applicant whose first professional degree in law was taught entirely in English in another country may apply for an exemption from this requirement by submitting a letter from their law school on official university letterhead verifying that English was the medium of instruction. This letter must be uploaded by the applicant in the English Proficiency section of the online application. LL.M. students who are exempted from submitting a TOEFL iBT or IELTS Academic score are expected to have competent English and are ineligible for extended time on exams. Non-native English-speaking LL.M. students are encouraged to take the 5-week Academic English Program summer course through the University's English Language Center and/or the Legal English course and the Legal Research & Writing course in the School of Law in the fall semester to ensure they have competent English to excel in the LL.M. Program. TOEFL iBT Free Practice Test Practice as often as you like! The free practice test features a full test with all 4 sections and real past questions. View correct answers in the Reading and Listening sections. Listen to sample Speaking responses. Read sample writing responses. Visit TOEFL iBT Practice Tests for more information. IELTS Practice Test Prepare for the IELTS with their free practice tests and answers. Use these tests to carry out timed practice sessions to develop your test technique. Visit Free IELTS Practice Tests for more information. English Requirements and COVID-19 To meet the needs of students who are unable to take the TOEFL iBT test at a test center due to public health concerns, ETS is temporarily offering the TOEFL iBT Home Edition. The test is identical in content, format and on-screen experience to the TOEFL iBT test taken at a test center. It is taken on your own computer at home and is monitored by a human proctor online through ProctorU. To have your TOEFL score sent, provide ETS with LSAC's institution code (8395) when you place your order for a copy of the score report to be sent. IELTS Indicator is an online test that can be taken from the comfort and safety of your home. The test includes four skills – Listening, Reading, Writing and Speaking, and you will receive an indicative score for each. Your performance will be marked by IELTS examiners and you will receive your result within seven days. The Academic test is available for a limited time while IELTS testing is currently suspended due to COVID-19. Educational providers can use IELTS Indicator to help them gauge the English language ability of future students while IELTS testing is suspended. Students who are trying to submit their IELTS score (IELTS Academic or IELTS Indicator) should submit to “Law School Admission Council LLM/JD Credential Assembly Svc.” LL.M. Application Checklist The application for the 2022-2023 LL.M. Program is now closed. The application for the 2023-2024 LL.M. Program will be available through the Law School Admission Council website starting on September 1, 2022. Application fee: We require a nonrefundable application fee of $75. Personal statement The personal statement is a chance to give the admissions committee a better sense of who you are as a person and as a potential LL.M. student at Texas Law. In many instances, applicants have used the personal statement to provide more context on how their experiences and strengths could make them valuable contributors to Texas Law and legal communities, to highlight their intellectual background and interests, or elaborate on other information in their application. Because applicants and their experiences differ, you are the best person to determine the content of your statement. Please limit your statement to two pages using a minimum of 11-point font and a maximum of 12-point font, 1-inch margins, and double-spacing. Your personal statement should not exceed 800 words. Resume Please limit your resume to 1-2 pages in length. Official law school transcript, including proof of degree If the official law school transcript with final grades and proof of degree are in a language other than English, then literal (word-for-word) English translations are required. However, certified English translations are not required. Applicants must submit all higher education transcripts, including transcripts for study abroad programs, and proof(s) of degree. Three letters of recommendation We strongly recommend that at least one letter of recommendation come from an academic source. However, letters from employers or others who have worked closely with you can be very helpful, particularly if you have been out of school for many years. All professional and academic references must be on official letterhead. Official TOEFL iBT score (101 minimum) or IELTS Academic score (7.5 minimum) To have your TOEFL score sent (TOEFL iBT or TOEFL iBT Home Edition), provide ETS with LSAC's institution code (8395) when you place your order for a copy of the score report to be sent. Students who are trying to submit their IELTS score (IELTS Academic or IELTS Indicator) should submit to "Law School Admission Council LLM/JD Credential Assembly Svc." The admissions committee is unable to review incomplete applications. It is the responsibility of the applicant to ensure that their application is complete. Applicants will receive an electronic notification conforming that their application has been received. This email includes a link to your Applicant Dashboard and login credentials. Applicants will not receive a separate electronic notification confirming that their application is complete. Check the status of your Texas Law LL.M. application on your Applicant Dashboard. Email questions to LLM@law.utexas.edu. Misconduct and Irregularities in the Admission Process LSAC Rules Governing Misconduct and Irregularities in the Admission Process defines misconduct or an irregularity as the submission, even by mistake, as part of the law school admission process of any information that is false, inconsistent, or misleading, or the omission, of information that may result in a false or misleading conclusion, or the violation of any regulation governing the law school admission process (Source: LSAC Rules Governing Misconduct and Irregularities in the Admission Process, Section 3). In accordance with LSAC Rules Governing Misconduct and Irregularities in the Admission Process, the LL.M. Program reserves the right to revoke an offer of admission if it concludes misconduct or an irregularity has occurred as part of the law school admission process. Master of Laws (LL.M.) Information for Current Students Alumni Application Information Application Status Bar Information for International Lawyers Career Services Concentrations Degree Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Housing Scholarship Opportunities Tuition, Expenses & Financial Aid Recruiting Events Contact Us LL.M. Admissions Bulletin LL.M. Admissions Bulletin Download PDF Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.