Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Academics and Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academics and Degree Programs Menu Experiential Learning Texas Law has one of the most extensive arrays of experiential learning opportunities of any law school. We prepare our students to succeed in varied professional paths by offering numerous courses and programs that bridge the classroom and the practice of law. Students gain hands-on experience through advanced training in simulated settings via the advocacy and legal writing programs, and they step into the lawyer role as they work on real-world cases and projects through clinics, internships and pro bono work. Most of our students become deeply involved in experiential learning, working closely with faculty to learn by putting the law into action. Advocacy Program Texas Law is a nationally recognized center of training in advocacy. The program links the academic and competitive aspects of advocacy, taking advantage of state-of-the-art facilities. View Advocacy Program Clinics We offer 16 different clinics covering a range of legal areas, and students work under the close supervision of faculty on behalf of clients in the real world. Students learn first-hand through cases and projects how to integrate theory, skills, strategy and law. View Clinics Internships We offer numerous internships in nonprofit organizations, government agencies, courts, and legislative offices. Students build their professional knowledge and skills in classes and in field placements supervised by experienced attorneys and judges. View Internships Legal Writing Learning to think and write “like a lawyer” is critically important to success in the legal profession. Texas Law provides a strong foundation in legal research, analysis and writing, along with numerous opportunities to build on that foundation through advanced coursework. View Legal Writing Program Pro Bono The Richard and Ginni Mithoff Pro Bono Program offers pro bono opportunities to all students and promotes an ethic of service throughout the Texas Law community. Students increase access to justice while building their professional knowledge and skills. View Pro Bono Program Academics and Degree Programs The Juris Doctor Program Learning Outcomes Dual & Combined Degrees Master of Laws (LL.M.) Program Experiential Learning Advocacy Clinics Internships Pro Bono Program Legal Writing International, Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Programs & Centers Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.