Skip to Main Content NEWS GIVING GET INVOLVED RESOURCES CONTACT Search What are you searching for? Search Alumni Resources & Benefits Update Your Contact Information Texas Law continues to support former students of Texas Law in your post-graduate endeavors. Please be sure to update your contact information for information and opportunities that may interest you. Professional Development UT CLE - Continuing Legal Education for All UT CLE - Registration for Recent Grads Transcripts - Official Transcripts - Unofficial (EID login required) Diplomas and Duplicate Diplomas Loan Repayment Assistance Program Tarlton Law Library Career Resources for Alumni Career Counseling Request If you have graduated from Texas Law within three years, the Career Services Office offers counseling during non-peak times when CSO resources are not fully dedicated to current students and graduates of the most recent graduating class. Job Bank - Login The CSO Job Bank on Texas Law Symplicity is available to Texas Law alumni at no cost, and contains lateral legal and non-legal job postings. To request access, please send your name (or former name while in law school), UT-EID, graduation year, and email address to cso@law.utexas.edu. Visit the UT-EID page to retrieve or obtain a UT-EID if needed. Job Search Resources The CSO has several online resources to help you develop your application materials and job search strategy, search for postings nationwide, research employers, connect with placement and coaching professionals, and network with Texas Law alumni. Judicial Clerkships and Academia The Judicial Clerkship Program provides continuing counseling support and resources for those pursuing a lateral judicial clerkship as some judges specifically want clerks who have previous legal work experience. Additionally, information and resources are available to help you establish your career in academia. We can connect you with members of our faculty for additional assistance. Stay Connected Contact Us Submit a Class Note Update Your Information Alumni Events Calendar Alumni News Class Notes Alumni Network LinkedIn Make sure your profile lists The University of Texas School of Law as your alma mater so that you’re in the same network as your fellow alumni. The Texas Exes HookedIn Instagram Twitter Facebook YouTube Texas Law Pride Event Photos (Flickr Albums) Zoom and Desktop Wallpaper Contact Texas Law The University of Texas at Austin School of Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Helpful Links Texas Law Home UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Contact Us Policies Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible. Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram