Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the Nebraska College of Law Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the Nebraska College of Law Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the Nebraska College of Law Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Nebraska College of Law Menu Search Log In About the College Faculty Directory Administration Staff Dean's Advisory Board Information Technology Nebraska Collaboration Faculty in the News Strategic Plan History Prospective Student Degree Programs Why Choose Nebraska Law Class Profiles Apply Financial Information Life in Lincoln Visits and Tours Contact Admissions Current Student Academics Full Course Listing Schmid Law Library Student Resources Organizations Nebraska Public Interest Law Fund Clinics & Programs Civil Clinic Criminal Clinic Entrepreneurship Clinic Immigration Clinic Children's Justice Programs Space, Cyber, and Telecommunications Law Law + Business Program Law-Psychology Program Externships Pro Bono Initiative Alumni Continuing Legal Education Volunteer Reunions Women's Leadership Initiative Alumni Awards Nebraska Transcript Request Your Transcript Keep In Touch Merchandise Career Development ROSCOE Finding Employment Application Materials Exploring Law Careers Employer Information About Career Development Office Contact Career Development Office Visit Visit the Nebraska College of Law Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the Nebraska College of Law Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the Nebraska College of Law Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Nebraska College of Law Prospective Student Prospective Students Preparing you for what's next Request Information Schedule a Visit Nebraska Law will continue to accept applications until our entering class has been filled. Apply Now There is no place like Nebraska, and there's no better law school to prepare you to be an inclusive leader. We offer a Big Ten legal education resulting in high bar passage and employment rates at a low tuition cost. Our faculty and staff will prepare you to reach your goals and impact your community. Nebraska Law Viewbook Apply #43 – Top 50 Law Schools Above the Law, 2021 #4 – Lowest Debt U.S. News and World Report, 2020 #1 – Best Value Law School National Jurist, 2015, 2016 #6 – Highest Graduate Employment American Lawyer 100 Rankings, 2019 11th Highest Bar Passage Rate 2017 Ultimate Bar Passage Beyond The Rankings Your Nebraska Law curriculum is flexible and allows you to customize your education to your interests and goals so you can solve the problems that matter to you and your community. Fewer students provide more opportunities for you to receive personal attention. You’ll develop leadership skills by getting involved in student organizations, competition teams, and honorary memberships. Students thrive in our supportive and collaborative culture and have more chance to step into leadership roles. Gain practical experience and prepare yourself for a lifetime of learning, service and ethical leadership. Work on real cases in one of our five legal clinics during your third year of law school. Why Choose Nebraska Law Degree Programs Our programs are flexible, unique and specialized. We will guide you as you strive to reach your goals as a leader. Juris Doctor (J.D.) Joint Degrees 3+3 Program Space, Cyber & Telecommunications Law Global Legal Practice Master of Legal Studies Just The Facts 2021 First-year class data See More Class Data Quality+Low Cost = Opportunity Nebraska Law has one of the lowest in-state tuitions of the top 100 law schools and is consistently listed in National Jurist’s top ten as a Best Value Law School. Federal financial aid as well as academic and opportunity scholarships are available to help support eligible students. The result is students who graduate with less student loan debt. According to Forbes, the Nebraska Law class of 2019 had the lowest median debt in the nation. Less debt allows greater opportunity to choose a position you want after graduation rather than feeling pressured to take the highest-paying job based in order to service your student loans. Financial Information Life In Lincoln Lincoln is #9 on Livability’s 2019 Top 100 Places to Live. With 289,000 residents, Lincoln is big enough to offer lots of excitement and activity, but small enough to have a hometown feel. Buzzing arts and music scene Bustling startups Plenty of activities to kick your feet up, stay active or network Growing Haymarket area with the world-class Pinnacle Bank Arena Cornerstone of the booming Silicon Prairie Housing costs 17% lower than the national average according to payscale.com Home to the state’s capital giving students a front row seat to the lawmaking process Life in Lincoln Admissions Events AddressP.O. Box 830902 Lincoln, NE 68583-0902 Phone number402-472-2161 NebraskaLaw on Facebook UNLCollegeofLaw on Twitter College of Law on YouTube UNLCollegeofLaw on Instagram Related Links Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Nebraska Law Merchandise About Lincoln Nebraska State Bar Association American Bar Association Academic Affairs Nebraska Today Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.