Skip to main content × Search Search Info For: Applicants Students Faculty Staff Media Make a Gift Main menu toggle Search Info For: Applicants Students Faculty Staff Media Make a Gift Main menu toggle Main menu toggle Mega Menu Skip menu to main content Overview Info for: Apply Study Faculty & Research Life at Duke Law Careers About Alumni Faculty & Staff Directory Event Calendar Goodson Law Library News Technology ABA Required Disclosures Follow Duke Law Duke Law on Youtube Duke Law on Twitter Duke Law on Facebook Duke Law on Instagram Return to start of menu Close menu Applicants Students Faculty Staff Media Overview Juris Doctor International LLM Master of Judicial Studies Dual Degrees SJD LLM in Law & Entrepreneurship Areas of Focus Public Interest & Pro Bono Summer Institutes PreLaw Fellowship Program Visit Admissions Contact Overview COVID-19 Updates Academic Advising Academic Calendar Course Browser Degree Requirements Clinics and Externships Legal Writing Wintersession Study Abroad Registration Portal Staff Overview Faculty Profiles Scholarship Visiting Assistant Professor Program Centers Journals Faculty Workshops Law & Economics Colloquium Teaching & Learning Overview Student Resources Student Organizations Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Public Interest & Pro Bono Student Events LEAD Week Graduation Overview Prospective Students JD Students International LLMs Alumni Employers Events Employment Data Staff Overview Administration Faculty & Staff Directory Facilities ABA Required Disclosures A History of Duke Law School Durham: The Bull City Visiting Duke Law Rules & Policies Overview News & Events Engage Giving Reunion Alumni Benefits Update Your Address Event Refund Policy Staff Return to start of menu Close menu Overview Info for: Applicants Students Faculty Staff Media Apply Overview Juris Doctor International LLM Master of Judicial Studies Dual Degrees SJD LLM in Law & Entrepreneurship Areas of Focus Public Interest & Pro Bono Summer Institutes PreLaw Fellowship Program Visit Admissions Contact Study Overview COVID-19 Updates Academic Advising Academic Calendar Course Browser Degree Requirements Clinics and Externships Legal Writing Wintersession Study Abroad Registration Portal Staff Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Profiles Scholarship Visiting Assistant Professor Program Centers Journals Faculty Workshops Law & Economics Colloquium Teaching & Learning Life at Duke Law Overview Student Resources Student Organizations Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Public Interest & Pro Bono Student Events LEAD Week Graduation Careers Overview Prospective Students JD Students International LLMs Alumni Employers Events Employment Data Staff About Overview Administration Faculty & Staff Directory Facilities ABA Required Disclosures A History of Duke Law School Durham: The Bull City Visiting Duke Law Rules & Policies Alumni Overview News & Events Engage Giving Reunion Alumni Benefits Update Your Address Event Refund Policy Staff Faculty & Staff Directory Event Calendar Goodson Law Library News Technology ABA Required Disclosures 210 Science Drive | Durham, NC 27708 | 919-613-7006 Follow Duke Law Duke Law on Youtube Duke Law on Twitter Duke Law on Facebook Duke Law on Instagram Banner & Notch Slider LAWYERS AND LEADERS When you arrive at Duke Law School, you become a colleague in an intensive and collaborative exploration of the law. Apply Now News Feed News Childs MJS ’16 urges class of 2022 to put people before professional accomplishments Convocation speaker advises graduates to prepare well so they can “meet their moment” CONTINUE READING Duke Law’s Salzburg Cutler Fellows explore public service on global stage At 10th annual program, students from 13 top law schools discussed how international law and legal systems can tackle challenges ranging from human rights to climate change and global economic issues. CONTINUE READING Gift from Rick Horvitz ‘78 and Erica Hartman-Horvitz to permanently endow program devoted to constitutional and public law The Program in Public Law will be renamed the Richard A. Horvitz Program in Constitutional and Public Law. CONTINUE READING Elana Fogel joins Duke Law as director of new Criminal Defense Clinic Fogel brings deep experience in indigent defense and a passion for mentoring to Duke Law’s twelfth clinic. CONTINUE READING Duke Law’s Salzburg Cutler Fellows explore public service on global stage At 10th annual program, students from 13 top law schools discussed how international law and legal systems can tackle challenges ranging from human rights to climate change and global economic issues. CONTINUE READING Gift from Rick Horvitz ‘78 and Erica Hartman-Horvitz to permanently endow program devoted to constitutional and public law The Program in Public Law will be renamed the Richard A. Horvitz Program in Constitutional and Public Law. CONTINUE READING U.S. District Judge Paul Grimm MJS '16 named director of the Bolch Judicial Institute U.S. District Judge Paul Grimm MJS '16 named director of the Bolch Judicial Institute CONTINUE READING Celebrating the Class of 2022 Check out photos from the ceremony, watch clips of the speeches, read Q&As with some of the graduates, and more. CONTINUE READING Childs MJS ’16 urges class of 2022 to put people before professional accomplishments CONTINUE READING Duke Law’s Salzburg Cutler Fellows explore public service on global stage CONTINUE READING Gift from Rick Horvitz ‘78 and Erica Hartman-Horvitz to permanently endow program devoted to constitutional and public law CONTINUE READING Play/PausePlay/Pause View More News Faculty & Research Faculty & Research Notable & Quotable Play/Pause May 30, 2022 “At least until now, the scope of gun regulation has been primarily a question for politics and we decide collectively the degree and the ways in which we want to regulate. The Second Amendment puts some outside limits on that, but the Supreme Court has repeatedly reiterated that the Second Amendment permits various forms of gun regulation, and in the [New York] case, the court seems likely to restrict the available policy space, so we will probably have fewer options." – Professor Joseph Blocher in The Hill The Atlantic in The Hill May 28, 2022 “At least from the tone and timbre of the [justices’] questioning, I think it’s pretty apparent that the New York licensing law is going to be ruled unconstitutional. And the real question I think that we're waiting for is just exactly how broad a ruling we’ll get.” – Professor Darrell Miller in Newsday Newsday in Newsday May 17, 2022 "I'm hopeful this opinion will have a widespread effect that will help patients being exploited by chargemaster prices. Perhaps more important, it will bring price transparency and price competition to the marketplace." – Professor Barak Richman in Colorado Politics Colorado Politics in Colorado Politics May 17, 2022 “As long as he has a factual basis for saying what he’s saying, I don’t think this is going to be actionable by the SEC or anybody else. It’s entirely possible that [Elon Musk] is doing this to try to drive down the share price because he’s having buyer’s remorse, and it has very little to do with the bots. But the difficulty in proving that, I believe, is insurmountable.” – Professor James Cox in The Washington Post The Washington Post in The Washington Post May 14, 2022 “It’s just something that frankly, people should not be doing. These are going to be largely unsophisticated traders, and I just don’t think it’s a suitable product for anyone.” – Lecturing Fellow Lee Reiners in The New York Times The New York Times in The New York Times Previous Next Upcoming Events Feed Upcoming Events October 13 7:00 AM 43rd Annual Duke Estate Planning Conference View Event June 14 7:00 PM Fall Registration Information Session and Q&A View Event June 24 9:00 AM Firearms Law Works-in-Progress Workshop View Event September 09 8:00 AM Risk, Death, and Well-Being Book Workshop View Event October 14 7:00 AM 43rd Annual Duke Estate Planning Conference View Event View Full Calendar Social Feed #DukeLawLife FOLLOW Duke Law on Instagram Duke Law Instagram Post Duke Law on Instagram Duke Law Duke Law School Allison Korn, an innovator in clinical pedagogy and experiential curriculum design, will become the director @dukehealthjustice on July 1. A former public defender and current assistant dean for experiential education and director of the Food Law and Policy Clinic at UCLA School of Law, Korn is excited to build a “deep and rich legacy” at the Clinic. She succeeds Clinical Professor Allison Rice, who is retiring after 28 years on the Law School faculty. Known as an innovator in clinical pedagogy and experiential curriculum design, Korn has overseen the rapid growth of opportunities for hands-on learning at UCLA, which has over the last five years added more than a dozen clinics and practicum courses and expanded its trial advocacy and externship programs. “Allison is a respected leader in the field of clinical legal education with a strong and visible commitment to centering social justice and race in the curriculum,” said Clinical Professor Michelle Benedict Nowlin JD/MA ‘92, who co-directs @dukeelpc and led the search committee. To learn more about Korn, check our link in bio! Link to Instagram post 5 days ago FOLLOW Duke Law on Twitter Duke Law 2:00 PM - 31 May 2022 Watch: Prof. Darrell Miller, on @CBSNews, breaks down all the issues at play in the upcoming #NYSRPAvBruen decision https://t.co/rzPmv2mHnu Link to tweet Duke Law on Twitter Duke Law 1:00 PM - 31 May 2022 Speaking @thehill, Prof. Joseph Blocher says he expects the #NYSRPAvBruen ruling to provide further clarification w… https://t.co/hV2Txs09zx Link to tweet Duke Law on Twitter Duke Law 12:00 PM - 31 May 2022 Pro. @Rai_Arti's research cited by senators in letter calling on the FDA and US Patent &amp; Trademark Office to cooper… https://t.co/cxeZ7cnyeO Link to tweet Duke Law Duke Law School Follow Allison Korn, an innovator in clinical pedagogy and experiential curriculum design, will become the director @dukehealthjustice on July 1. A former public defender and current assistant dean for experiential education and director of the Food Law and Policy Clinic at UCLA School of Law, Korn is excited to build a “deep and rich legacy” at the Clinic. She succeeds Clinical Professor Allison Rice, who is retiring after 28 years on the Law School faculty. Known as an innovator in clinical pedagogy and experiential curriculum design, Korn has overseen the rapid growth of opportunities for hands-on learning at UCLA, which has over the last five years added more than a dozen clinics and practicum courses and expanded its trial advocacy and externship programs. “Allison is a respected leader in the field of clinical legal education with a strong and visible commitment to centering social justice and race in the curriculum,” said Clinical Professor Michelle Benedict Nowlin JD/MA ‘92, who co-directs @dukeelpc and led the search committee. To learn more about Korn, check our link in bio! Link to Instagram post 5 days ago Duke Law 2:00 PM - 31 May 2022 Watch: Prof. Darrell Miller, on @CBSNews, breaks down all the issues at play in the upcoming #NYSRPAvBruen decision https://t.co/rzPmv2mHnu Link to tweet Duke Law 1:00 PM - 31 May 2022 Speaking @thehill, Prof. Joseph Blocher says he expects the #NYSRPAvBruen ruling to provide further clarification w… https://t.co/hV2Txs09zx Link to tweet Duke Law 12:00 PM - 31 May 2022 Pro. @Rai_Arti's research cited by senators in letter calling on the FDA and US Patent &amp; Trademark Office to cooper… https://t.co/cxeZ7cnyeO Link to tweet FOLLOW Duke Law on Twitter Visit the Duke Law homepage Footer menu Apply Study Faculty & Research Life at Duke Law Careers About Alumni Goodson Law Library ABA Required Disclosures Website Feedback 210 Science Drive | Durham, NC 27708 | 919-613-7006 FOLLOW DUKE LAW On Instagram On Facebook On Twitter On Youtube 210 Science Drive | Durham, NC 27708 | 919-613-7006 Get Directions © 2022 Duke University School of Law, All rights reserved