Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Master of Laws (LL.M.) Master of Laws (LL.M.) Menu Master of Laws (LL.M.) Program Lawyers from all over the world come to The University of Texas at Austin to expand the breadth and depth of their legal knowledge and invest in an internationally recognized Master of Laws. The LL.M. Program is diverse, selective, and small, with 25 spots for each incoming class. LL.M. students from foreign countries and the U.S. are fully integrated into the academic life of the Law School, learning side by side with 880 J.D. students. The LL.M. class is global in reach, with students from 17 different countries in the Class of 2022, including 4 Fulbright students. In fact, The University of Texas at Austin is home to over 5,000 international students, and the rich diversity on our campus is essential to our success as a global learning community. Texas Law is situated on the northeast quadrant of campus, a short walk to museums, two recreation centers with pools, and a football stadium. Law school facilities include two courtrooms; study lounges; state-of-the-art classrooms; a café; and the Tarlton Law Library, one of the largest academic law libraries in the world. Additionally, we have an unbeatable set of 16 clinics, 16 programs and centers, 13 student-run journals, and 35 student organizations that round out law students’ legal education. The LL.M. Program team is committed to helping students achieve their academic and extracurricular goals. Throughout the year, the LL.M. Program organizes study breaks, plans events, and holds academic support and advising sessions. The experienced faculty and staff are always available to give each student the care and support they need to be successful in their legal studies at UT Austin. Finally, we are in Austin–the Live Music Capital of the World, the fastest-growing big city in the country, and the second best city for liberals to live. Technology companies such as Apple, Dell, Facebook, Google, IBM, Intel, National Instruments, Oracle, and Samsung have established major operations in Austin. Boasting 400 live music venues, 100 barbecue restaurants, 200 miles of urban hike and bike trails, and 300 sunny days each year, we say that Austin is the best place in the world to be a law student. Concentrations The University of Texas School of Law offers a single LL.M. degree with six different concentrations. Each degree concentration provides students with the opportunity to complete specified courses and obtain a certificate of specialization in that concentration. The LL.M. Program is flexible and allows each student to design an individual course of study tailored to their academic and professional interests. Our LL.M. concentrations are: Business Law Cybersecurity Law Global Energy, International Arbitration & Environmental Law Human Rights & Comparative Constitutional Law Latin American & International Law U.S. Law for Foreign Lawyers Texas Law has 290 faculty with over 125 areas of specialty and boasts a low student-faculty ratio of 6:1. U.S. News & World Report has ranked Texas Law 16th national law school and 5th public law school in the country. Furthermore, we boast the lowest tuition among the top 20 law schools in the United States. U.S. News & World Report has also ranked the following Texas Law specialties in the top 30 for 2021: Business/Corporate Law (17), Contracts/Commercial Law (11), Constitutional Law (9), Criminal Law (17), Dispute Resolution (19), Environmental Law (30), Health Care Law (29), Intellectual Property Law (26), International Law (18), and Tax Law (16). Texas Law: This is Where it Begins Here is a sneak peek at our amazing city and beautiful campus, and a little taste of what it is like to be part of our Texas Law community. At The University of Texas, we say “What Starts Here Changes the World”—and this is where it all begins. What Students Are Saying "I am a litigation associate in Winston & Strawn's Houston office, focusing my practice on domestic litigation and international disputes. I am licensed to practice law in Texas and Mexico and have gained litigation experience in both legal systems. Prior to joining Winston, I served as law clerk to the Honorable Justice Eva Guzman at the Supreme Court of Texas and the Honorable Michael Truncale at the Eastern District of Texas, becoming the first foreign-trained attorney to clerk for the State’s highest court and first to clerk for a federal court." Isaac Villarreal, Class of 2018, Associate, Winston & Strawn LLP "Last week, we toured the Sweetwater Wind Farm – one of the largest wind farms in the world! We attended a presentation on wind turbine operation and went inside an operational wind turbine. We also discussed issues pertaining to contracts and environmental law. The wind tour is a unique experience offered by the Law School's Institute for Transnational Law and the best way to learn!" Francisco Lanusse, Class of 2018, Associate at Latham & Watkins LLP "When I learned I had been awarded a Fulbright Scholarship, I must admit that Texas Law was not the first school that came to mind when assessing where I would eventually end up doing my LL.M. However, I could not be happier that it turned out the way it did - that I did my LL.M. at Texas Law. Texas Law was a great match for me (which is why Fulbright recommended it to begin with) since the courses they offer matched what I wanted to focus on very well, namely: international commercial arbitration." Andreas Hallbeck, Class of 2018, Senior Associate at Advokat på Roschier, Attorneys Ltd. Give to the LL.M. Program We’re changing the world, and your support of the Mary Mikeska LL.M. Scholarship helps makes that possible. Give now. Every gift matters. Thank You to Our Donors. Connect with the LL.M. Program at Texas Law Master of Laws (LL.M.) Information for Current Students Alumni Application Information Application Status Bar Information for International Lawyers Career Services Concentrations Degree Requirements Frequently Asked Questions Housing Scholarship Opportunities Tuition, Expenses & Financial Aid Recruiting Events Contact Us LL.M. Admissions Bulletin LL.M. Admissions Bulletin Download PDF Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.