Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Admissions and Financial Aid ABA Standard 509. Information Reports Admissions and Financial Aid Menu ABA Standard 509. Information Reports ABA Required Disclosures The following consumer information is supplied in accordance with Standard 509 of the American Bar Association Standards and Rules of Procedure for Approval of Law Schools, to assist prospective students. ABA Standard 509. Information Report 2021 Report 2020 Report 2019 Report ABA Standard 504. Qualifications for Admission to the Bar In addition to a bar examination, there are character, fitness, and other qualifications for admission to the bar in every U.S. jurisdiction. Applicants are encouraged to determine the requirements for any jurisdiction in which they intend to seek admission by contacting the jurisdiction. Addresses for all relevant agencies are available through the National Conference of Bar Examiners. Report of Employment Outcomes Employment Summary Reports Report of Bar Exam Outcomes Bar Exam Report Academic Information Academic Calendar Academic Policies Academic Requirements Curricular Offerings Tuition Refund Policy Transfer of Credit Policy Transfer applicants must apply prior to beginning their second year of law school and may transfer no more than 32 semester hours (48 quarter hours). A transfer student receives academic credit on the following terms: (1) total number of credit hours transferred may not exceed the number of credit hours earned during the first year by Texas Law students; (2) transfer credit is not given for any course in which the student earned a grade of less than C, or its equivalent as determined by the Assistant Dean of Student Affairs; and (3) a CR grade is recorded for all transferred work. Please note that transfer students may not qualify for Order of the Coif upon graduation because of the organization’s limitations on grades recorded as credit. For more information on transferring see Transfer Admissions. Equal Opportunity Statement The University of Texas at Austin and the Law School are committed to an educational and working environment that provides equal opportunity to all members of the University community. For more information, please visit here. Accreditation The University of Texas School of Law is a member of the Association of American Law Schools and is accredited by the Council of the Section of Legal Education and Admissions to the Bar of the American Bar Association. Contact the American Bar Association, 321 North Clark Street, Chicago, IL 60654, 312-988-6738 for questions regarding the Law School’s accreditation. Admissions and Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admissions Bulletin Application Procedures Admissions Deadlines Check Your Status Frequently Asked Questions Admitted Students Student Ambassadors Student Housing Life in Austin Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admission Transfer Admission Transient (Visiting) Admission Frequently Asked Questions Texas Law-ITAM Program LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Equity and Inclusion Contact Us The J.D. Bulletin Admissions Bulletin Download PDF Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.