Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law Accelerated Degrees Engaged TU Law ranked #1 in Oklahoma and #15 nationally for graduate job placement Phone (918) 631-2406 Email LawAdmissions@utulsa.edu https://youtu.be/YKUi9fzNRuY?list=PLPfyKp474fm2LYyuyYuJ7aIcCs4UFMHjp Degree Programs A top value law school to prepare you for an exceptional future Sustainable Energy & Resources Law (SERL) Accelerated Enrollment Options Concurrent Enrollment Options Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Schedule a Visit Apply Accelerated degrees An accelerated degree is an excellent opportunity to earn an undergraduate degree and a juris doctor from TU in less time than it would take to pursue each degree separately. Candidates who meet the criteria are invited to consider this unique opportunity. Business + JD Accelerated Degree Program Through a collaborative program with the College of Law, selected students at the TU Collins College of Business can complete their undergraduate degree and a JD in six years. At the end of their first year in law school and the completion of 125 applicable semester hours, students in the program will be awarded a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (BSBA) degree with a major in Business and Law. Students in the Collins College of Business are eligible to apply for admission to the Business + JD Accelerated Law Program in the last fall semester before they hope to begin law school. Read more about the program For more information about this program, contact April Fox, Associate Dean and Director of Admissions, TU College of Law, at april-fox@utulsa.edu, or Tami Barrett, Professional Advisor Specialist, at tami-barrett@utulsa.edu. OSU Undergraduate + JD Program The OSU Undergraduate + JD Accelerated Degree Program is an excellent opportunity for motivated students who want to simultaneously earn both their undergraduate degree from OSU and a law degree from TU in less time than it would take to pursue each degree separately. Through a collaborative program with Oklahoma State University and The University of Tulsa College of Law, selected students can complete their undergraduate degree and a JD in six years. At the end of their first year in law school and the completion of all required applicable semester hours, students in the program will be awarded a Bachelors degree from OSU. At the conclusion of 88 hours of law coursework, selected students will earn a JD from TU College of Law. Students are eligible to apply for admission to the Accelerated Law program in the fall of their third year at OSU. Admission is highly selective. Read more about the program For more information, contact April Fox, Associate Dean, Director of Admissions, TU College of Law, at april-fox@utulsa.edu or Kelly Kavalier, JD, Assistant Director & Sr. Academic Counselor II, Oklahoma State University College Advising, at Kelly.kavalier@okstate.edu. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT