Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Student Affairs Staff Area: Student Affairs Office Department Contact Student Affairs Office Elizabeth T. Bangs Assistant Dean for Student Affairs Dean Bangs has been the Assistant Dean for Student Affairs at Texas Law since 2013. Together with the amazing members of the Student Affairs team, Dean Bangs coordinates and supports student and academic services, co-curricular and extracurricular programming, and student-focused special events. She counsels students on a wide range of academic, personal, and professional matters and serves as one of the Law School's Title IX liaisons. She has also served on the Texas Roundtable on Lawyer Well-Being. Dean Bangs graduated with honors from Harvard College and Harvard Law School. Prior to joining academia, she was a judicial law clerk on the Ninth Circuit and in the Central District of California and a trial attorney in the United States Department of Justice. She then worked for a number of years as the director of legal research and writing at both Harvard Law School and the University of Oklahoma College of Law, where she also taught civil procedure and disability law. When she's not at the law school (which is rare), Dean Bangs is mom to two school-age children. She is looking forward to the return of live music to Austin. She drinks too much coffee. Her door is always open to students. Make an appointment with Dean Bangs. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1313 Hong Tran Escobar Assistant Director of Student Affairs and Community Engagement Hong Tran Escobar serves as Assistant Director of Student Affairs & Community Engagement in the School of Law. In addition to providing academic advising to 1/3 of the class, she supports student organizations and affinity groups with a focus on equity and inclusion. Prior to joining the Student Affairs team, Hong worked as the Law School Admissions Coach at The University of Texas at Austin. She has also worked as a Career Coach in the Career Services Office at Texas Law and served as a department director at the State Bar of Texas, supporting the Texas Access to Justice Commission. Hong earned her BA in Political Science and Sociology from the University of Oregon, her JD from Seattle University School of Law, and visited the University of Texas School of Law during her 3L year. In her free time, Hong enjoys reading YA books written by diverse authors, traveling to tropical destinations, and getting the best deals on just about anything. Make an appointment with Hong. Send Email Christopher Sokol Assistant Director of Student Affairs Christopher Sokol serves as Assistant Director of Student Affairs in the School of Law. Christopher earned a B.A. in History from the University of Texas at Austin and a J.D. from Notre Dame Law School. After graduating from law school, he worked in college athletics for 8 years at Chaminade University of Honolulu, UCLA, and the University of Oklahoma. While at Oklahoma, he became an adjunct faculty member, teaching Sports Law and NCAA Compliance. Returning to the law school setting changed his career path and led to him becoming the Director of Student Success at Oklahoma City University School of Law and the resident Sports Law Professor. A native Texan, Christopher grew up in Plano and loves Austin. In his free time, he enjoys reading, writing, listening to live music, and being outside with his wife and dog. Make an appointment with Christopher. Send Email Courtney Brown Student Program Coordinator Courtney serves as the student program coordinator and Dean Bangs’ assistant. As the student program coordinator, she works as a liaison between student organizations and the School of Law, providing assistance in matters of accounting, business contracts, event planning, and travel. She handles scheduling for the Dean and provides support to the Student Affairs team as a whole. Courtney earned a bachelor’s degree in studio art from Indiana University. She has lived in Japan, New York, and Houston before finally settling for good in Austin. Courtney enjoys creative writing, illustrating and traveling. She is also the SAO’s crazy cat-lady-in-residence. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1140 Sarah Kitten Director of Academic Services and Registrar As Director for Academic Service and the Registrar, Sarah oversees functions related to registration, course schedule production, exam administration, grade reporting, and faculty support. Sarah earned a B.A. in Hispanic Linguistics and a M.Ed. in Educational Administration, both from The University of Texas at Austin. She has worked at UT for over twenty years as an academic advisor and advising administrator in the College of Liberal Arts and in the Department of Aerospace Engineering and Engineering Mechanics. A native Texan, Sarah grew up in San Antonio and once she came to Austin for college, she never left! She has a love-hate relationship with all things sports, particularly the San Antonio Spurs and the Texas Longhorns. In her free time, she enjoys reading, gardening, volunteering at her church, and any sort of outdoor activity with her husband. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1143 Alissa Strother Assistant Director for Academic Services As Assistant Director for Academic Services, Alissa helps to oversee administrative functions related to course schedule production, exam administration, faculty support, and registration. Alissa earned a bachelor’s degree in English literature/communication studies from Florida State University, where she served as the public relations director for FSU’s student-run radio station in her free time. She worked in magazine and web publishing in Chicago before returning to the warm embrace of the South, moving to Austin in 2010. Alissa provided academic and faculty support services at the LBJ School of Public Affairs prior to joining the team at Texas Law. She enjoys creative pursuits of all kinds and loves living in a city that celebrates music, television, film, literature, art, and food as much as she does. After hours, you have a pretty good chance of running into her and her husband at a concert, football game, or comedy show. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1376 Julie Tipton Senior Administrative Associate for Registration Julie oversees and supports administrative functions for student registration processes. She works directly with the registrar to perform audits of student/course data and ensures the maintenance of records in all areas. She supports faculty requests and assists with exam administration. She updates and maintains bar exam results and assists with classroom and exam accommodations for law students. Julie moved to Austin from Charlotte, North Carolina. She received her B.A. and M.Ed. in Special Education at The University of North Carolina at Charlotte and taught students with moderate to severe disabilities in North Carolina public schools for almost ten years. Julie loves to sing, write music, hike, and spend time with friends and family. She is thoroughly enjoying all the Texas food! Send Email Phone: 512-232-1142 Marcelo Davila-Olivera Administrative Associate for Academic Services Marcelo oversees and supports administrative functions by performing essential duties to serve as a liaison between law students and law licensing authorities. He provides faculty support and assistance regarding textbooks, course instructor evaluations and room reservations. He performs exam troubleshooting and provides software support. He completed a bachelor’s degree in Linguistics at Universidad de la Republica (Uruguay), where he also had the opportunity to work providing support to the professors’ delegates to different executive bodies within the university. Prior to joining the Texas Law Student Affairs team, he completed a year of service as an AmeriCorps with Austin Habitat for Humanity, where he worked side by side with the local community and people from all over the world to make the homeownership dreams of many come true. Marcelo enjoys spending his free time cooking, solving chess puzzles with his wife, and spoiling his cats. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1144 Contact Us Room TNH 2.117 727 E. Dean Keeton Austin, TX 78705 Phone 512-232-1140 Email studentaffairs@law.utexas.edu registration@law.utexas.edu Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.