Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Admissions and Financial Aid Texas Law-ITAM Program Admissions and Financial Aid Menu Texas Law-ITAM Program The University of Texas School of Law joins with the Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México (ITAM) to provide an opportunity for a cohort of selected students to earn both a Juris Doctor degree (J.D.) from Texas Law and a Licenciatura en Derecho from ITAM. The aim of the program is to train lawyers to be well-qualified to practice law on an international level. Together, the two schools offer a complete course of study in both legal systems, affording students a high level of preparation for the transnational practice of law. Graduates of both schools will be eligible, from the academic point of view, to sit for the bar examination in any U.S. jurisdiction and file a license before the Mexican Ministry of Education to be admitted to practice law in Mexico. Texas Law J.D. students interested in apply to study at ITAM are encouraged to contact OutgoingExchange@law.utexas.edu. Program Structure Duration All students who participate in the program spend a minimum of two full academic years in residence at Texas Law. Students who begin their studies in Mexico spend their first four years of study in Mexico and then spend the following two years of study at Texas Law. Students who begin their studies at Texas Law spend their first two years in Austin and then spend their third year at ITAM as an exchange/study abroad student; those students graduate from Texas Law at the end of their third year, and then may spend a fourth year at ITAM to earn a Liecentiatura en Derecho from ITAM. Dedication Texas Law’s J.D. program is full-time with classes offered only during the day. Because students in the program must complete their graduation requirements in a compressed period, they should not plan to engage in outside employment during their two academic years of study at Texas Law. Degree Requirements and Academic Policies A student must complete a minimum of 58 credits in residence at Texas Law to earn a J.D. degree. For more information, see: https://law.utexas.edu/student-affairs/graduation/degree-requirementsgeneral-graduation-info/ Texas Law’s academic policies apply to all enrolled students. For more information, see: https://law.utexas.edu/student-affairs/academic-services/ Tuition Students who begin their studies at ITAM pay a total amount of tuition equal to the credits for the program and 20% of ITAM’s units of credits accepted from Texas Law courses taken in the last two years. In addition, students pay two years of tuition at the nonresident rate to The University of Texas. During the time of enrollment at ITAM, students make tuition payments directly to ITAM. During the two years of enrollment at Texas Law, students make Texas Law tuition payments directly to Texas Law and make the accepted credits payments directly to ITAM. Language Classes at Texas Law are taught in English. Students who participate in the Texas Law-ITAM Program are expected to be fluent in both English and Spanish and must be able to express themselves orally and in writing in both languages at a graduate level. As part of the application process, students are required to sit for an interview with Texas Law professors or administrators. Immigration ITAM students are required to obtain the F-1 U.S. visa. Texas Law provides students with the formal acceptance document required by American consulates in the U.S. to apply for an F-1 visa. International Student & Scholar Services (ISSS), the University’s international office, is available to provide students with general information on the visa application process. However, students are ultimately responsible for obtaining the visa in a timely manner and meeting the requirements for admission. For more information, contact hotline@austin.utexas.edu. Career Services Texas Law’s Career Services Office (CSO) is available to all students at Texas Law, helping students achieve their career goals by advising them of career options, providing job search strategies and resources, and connecting students with potential employers. Bar Examinations Students with the J.D. degree are eligible, from the academic point of view, to take the bar examination in any American jurisdiction once certified as having completed the requirements for the J.D. Rules and Regulations Students in the program are subject to the academic rules, policies, and regulations of their home and host universities, to all program guidelines, and to the laws of their home and host countries. Application Information for ITAM Students Must be currently enrolled at ITAM and have completed their seventh semester of study. Contact the ITAM program coordinator, Claudia Álvarez Estrada, to start the application process. Must submit an application for J.D. admission by March 1. The application can be found at www.lsac.org and will be available starting September 1. ITAM applicants are not eligible for the Early Decision Program. Must submit a personal statement as part of their application. Your personal statement may not exceed two (2) double-spaced pages with a minimum 11-point font size and 1-inch margins. Must take the TOEFL iBT or the IELTS Academic and submit an official score report. We require a minimum score of 100 on the TOEFL iBT or a minimum a score of 7.0 on the IELTS Academic. Scores cannot be more than two years old. The Texas Law-ITAM Degree Program does not accept TOEFL MyBest scores. If you are a native English speaker, this requirement is waived. Applicants to the Texas Law-ITAM Degree Program must take the LSAT no later than February’s test administration and submit their applications by March 1. Register with the Law School Admissions Council (LSAC) for the Credential Assembly Service (CAS). Additionally, applicants with a foreign law degree must register for the International Transcript Authentication and Evaluation Service (ITAES). Two letters of recommendation (LORs) are required. We strongly recommend that at least one letter come from an academic source. However, letters from employers or others who have worked closely with you can be very helpful, particularly if you have been out of school for many years. Must submit an official law school transcript to LSAC. If the official law school transcript is in a language other than English, literal (word-for-word) English translations are required. Certified English translations are not required. Applicants must submit all higher education transcripts, including transcripts for study abroad programs, and proof(s) of degree. Must submit a résumé . Please limit your résumé to 3 pages in length. Application questions should be sent to admissions@law.utexas.edu. Financial Aid Texas Law-ITAM Degree Program students are considered transfer students at Texas Law, and transfer students are not eligible for scholarships from the Law School. Nevertheless, there are a number of internal third-party scholarships for which admitted and current students are eligible to apply. Please note that internal third-party scholarships require a separate application and have their own internal deadline. Since the number of internal third-party scholarships we offer is limited, admitted and current students are strongly advised to apply for financial aid and scholarships from Mexico and the U.S. Texas law classifies each person who applies for admission to a Texas public college or university as a resident of Texas, a nonresident, or a foreign (international) student. How you are classified is important because it determines whether you pay non-resident rates or in-state tuition rates, which are lower. Being a resident also qualifies you to apply for financial aid awarded by the state. The two options available for establishing residency are high school graduation and establishing domicile. Internal Third-Party Scholarships Association of International Petroleum Negotiators Student Scholarship Program (separate application required and April deadline) Admitted students are eligible to apply. Energy and Mineral Law Foundation Law Student Scholarship (separate application required and February deadline) Admitted students are eligible to apply. Good Neighbor Scholarship (separate application required and March deadline) Admitted students who have started their myIO profile are eligible to apply. International Bar Association Section on Energy, Environment, Natural Resources and Infrastructure Law (SEERIL) Law Studies Scholarships (separate application required and March deadline) Admitted students are eligible to apply. Application instructions: For the name and contact details of a member of our faculty who is a member of the Oil and Gas Committee within SEERIL, email mpajon@law.utexas.edu. Rapoport Center Human Rights Scholars Program (separate application required and April deadline) Admitted students are eligible to apply. Rocky Mountain Mineral Law Foundation Scholarship (separate application required and March deadline) Admitted students are eligible to apply. Tuition Assistance for Mexican Students (separate application required and April deadline) Admitted and current students who have started their myIO profile are eligible to apply. External Scholarships American Association of University Women International Fellowship American Association of University Women Selected Professions Fellowship Becas MOB COMEXUS CONACYT FUNED Graduate Women International Fellowships & Grants Hispanic Scholarship Fund College Scholarship Program IIE-Scholar Rescue Fund Mexican-American Legal Defense and Educational Fund Law School Scholarship Point Foundation (The National LGBTQ Schoalrship Fund) Interest-Free Loans Rowe Fund Loan Loans Federal Student Aid Advisors at Texas Law Office of Graduate & International Programs Dr. Mauricio Pajón, Ph.D. +1 (512) 475-9328 IncomingExchange@law.utexas.edu Office of J.D. Admissions Ms. Cassandra Shulter +1 (512) 232-1205 admissions@law.utexas.edu Admissions and Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admissions Bulletin Application Procedures Admissions Deadlines Check Your Status Frequently Asked Questions Admitted Students Student Ambassadors Student Housing Life in Austin Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admission Transfer Admission Transient (Visiting) Admission Frequently Asked Questions Texas Law-ITAM Program LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Equity and Inclusion Contact Us The J.D. Bulletin Admissions Bulletin Download PDF Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.