Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the Nebraska College of Law Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to the Nebraska College of Law Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to the Nebraska College of Law Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Nebraska College of Law Menu Search Log In About the College Faculty Directory Administration Staff Dean's Advisory Board Information Technology Nebraska Collaboration Faculty in the News Strategic Plan History Prospective Student Degree Programs Why Choose Nebraska Law Class Profiles Apply Financial Information Life in Lincoln Visits and Tours Contact Admissions Current Student Academics Full Course Listing Schmid Law Library Student Resources Organizations Nebraska Public Interest Law Fund Clinics & Programs Civil Clinic Criminal Clinic Entrepreneurship Clinic Immigration Clinic Children's Justice Programs Space, Cyber, and Telecommunications Law Law + Business Program Law-Psychology Program Externships Pro Bono Initiative Alumni Continuing Legal Education Volunteer Reunions Women's Leadership Initiative Alumni Awards Nebraska Transcript Request Your Transcript Keep In Touch Merchandise Career Development ROSCOE Finding Employment Application Materials Exploring Law Careers Employer Information About Career Development Office Contact Career Development Office Visit Visit the Nebraska College of Law Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to the Nebraska College of Law Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to the Nebraska College of Law Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska Nebraska College of Law Prospective Student Degree Programs Degree Programs Preparing you to be a leader Request Information Schedule a Visit As a Nebraska College of Law student, you will be immersed in an educational experience that is flexible, unique and designed to your passions and goals. Our specialized programs provide opportunities to work with Nebraska Law faculty, who are national leaders in their areas of expertise. They will help guide you as you strive to reach your goals. Degree Programs Juris Doctor (J.D.) Our JD degree program provides a traditional foundation in legal analysis and critical reasoning, along with the opportunity to specialize your learning in an individualized program of study alongside a faculty member. Explore the J.D. Program Joint Degrees You can receive a juris doctor and a master’s degree in one of nine other disciplines by pursuing a joint degree. Explore Joint Degree Programs 3+3 Program Qualified students may begin working on their juris doctor degree after three years of undergraduate studies. This program allows you to take law classes to fulfill undergraduate requirements, and complete an undergraduate and juris doctor degree in only six years. Explore the 3+3 Program Space, Cyber, & Telecommunications Law This first-of-its-kind program prepares professionals for the ever-changing field of creating and adapting laws and regulations to new technological advances. You can complete this as a JD, LL.M or JS.D. candidate. Explore Space, Cyber and Telecom Law Master of Legal Studies The Master of Legal Studies is ideal for students who may not want to pursue the practice of law, but want a better understanding of the legal process and procedure. Explore the MLS Program Global Legal Practice The Global Legal Practice program introduces international students to the legal practices and demands of the United States. Explore the Global Legal Practice Program AddressP.O. Box 830902 Lincoln, NE 68583-0902 Phone number402-472-2161 NebraskaLaw on Facebook UNLCollegeofLaw on Twitter College of Law on YouTube UNLCollegeofLaw on Instagram Related Links Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Nebraska Law Merchandise About Lincoln Nebraska State Bar Association American Bar Association Academic Affairs Nebraska Today Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.