Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > Student Services > Housing, Dining and Parking Housing, Dining and Parking https://youtu.be/Yyw3JGsOSGQ?list=PLPfyKp474fm2LYyuyYuJ7aIcCs4UFMHjp STUDENT SERVICES Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Student Organizations Public Interest/Pro Bono Housing, Dining and Parking Admitted Students Housing Six university apartment villages are located on the TU campus within walking distance of the College of Law. Visit the University Apartments page for more information. Accessibility The University of Tulsa offers on-campus accessible apartment accommodations for students with physical challenges. Students who are interested in an accessible on-campus apartment should contact Mark Bernhardt, Associate Director of Housing, as soon as they are accepted and/or enrolled at TU College of Law. All apartments that are currently accessible for students with physical challenges will be reserved for students with physical needs until mid-July before the commencement of the semester in mid-August. If a student with special physical needs is admitted or enrolls after the deadline has past, accommodations may be made to a non-accessible apartment should one be available. Once a student with physical challenges signs a licensing agreement for a university apartment, the property management team will meet with that student individually to discuss what accommodations are needed to that student’s apartment. All physical accommodations can be made within two to six weeks to allow the student to move into their apartments within a reasonable time before the commencement of the semester. There is no additional rental charge for accommodations made to an apartment that are ADA compliant. Dining A number of on-campus dining options are available at the Allen Chapman Student Union, immediately south of the College of Law. Subway Starbucks Chick-fil-A Einstein Brothers Bagel Company Pizza Hut Baja Jacks Tossed (salad bar) Sushi Blue Star Ginger Asian Grill & Noodle Bar Benvenuto Cuccina Italiana C-Store (convenience store) H2H – Hurricane Hut Sports Bar & Grill Parking Registration for on-campus parking may be done online or in person at the Parking and Card Services Office in Fisher Hall. See Univeristy parking and registration information Accessibility Lots designated as ADA Accessible are available throughout the TU campus. The spaces are located at or near every building on campus, including the College of Law, and vary in quantity depending upon the lot. If you are planning a visit to The University of Tulsa College of Law, please know that the nearest ADA parking to the College of Law is located on the west side of the building. The University of Tulsa provides spaces throughout the campus for the parking needs of persons with disabilities. For visitors, the University honors any government-issued disability permit or license plate that is visibly displayed on a vehicle. Students and employees with physical restrictions may use these spaces when displaying their state issued disability permit or license plate; however, it is still necessary to register your vehicle by purchasing a permit in order to park on University property. To be assured of a space in their preferred parking lot, students and employees with physical restrictions should purchase a regular permit for the lot of choice. Your current approved state ADA permit along with a current TU parking permit will allow you to park in any ADA space on campus. If no ADA space is available near the College of Law, you can go to an ADA space in another lot or any space in a commuter lot. Students may not park in a regular space unless your permit is for that lot. For assistance in obtaining a temporary disabled parking permit, contact the Parking and Card Services at 918-631-3360. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT