Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > Faculty > In conversation with TU Law’s new dean In conversation with TU Law’s new dean January 26, 2022 Dean Oren Griffin The dawn of a new year heralded the arrival of The University of Tulsa College of Law’s new dean, Oren Griffin. During his first month at the helm, Griffin kindly made time in his bustling schedule to shed some light on his background and insights into what makes TU Law such a promising place for students from across the country to gain a first-class legal education. You taught at Mercer University School of Law in Georgia since 2006 and, most recently, served as its associate dean for strategic initiatives. What motivated you to pull up stakes and move across the country to Tulsa and The University of Tulsa? In my view, TU is an outstanding institution with great programs and facilities, and well-positioned for the development of interdisciplinary programs that intersect with law and policy. Moreover, I’m impressed with the City of Tulsa, which offers a welcoming community. You received your Juris Doctor degree from Washington and Lee University School of Law in 1996. Thinking back to your time as a law student, what were some of the highlights, and are there any you might consider introducing at TU Law? TU Law has many wonderful programs including its diverse array of clinical and externship opportunities. I had a great experience working in the public defender’s clinic in law school and I’m very impressed with the robust clinical education programs available to TU Law students. I’m committed to supporting these and all our programs going forward. After graduating from law school, you worked as a labor and employment attorney with law firms in Atlanta and Kalamazoo. What motivated you to enter academia? Practicing law in state and federal courts was very rewarding for me; however, I’ve always had a strong interest in higher education and academic leadership. Legal education has given me the ability to merge my interest in law and policy while serving the higher education community. What are the major challenges facing legal education in the United States today? Of course, navigating the difficulties of the public health emergency associated with COVID-19 is a major challenge. However, law schools are also confronted with tremendous competition for the best and brightest students, recruiting and retaining talented faculty, and offering an affordable education at a time when many students enter law school with significant student loan debt. As a champion of social justice, diversity, equity and inclusion, what is your vision of the role those principles play in the education of future legal professionals? It is critical that students are equipped to enter the legal professional with an appreciation for principles of equity, fairness and inclusion. While problem-solving and critical thinking are among the core competences that lawyers bring to the legal profession or their work in government, the nonprofit sector and other arenas, the values of diversity, equity and inclusion must play a central role in our efforts. It is important to lead by example in these areas, but to also create safe spaces for students to learn and explore these subjects with experienced faculty and skilled practitioners. With hundreds of law schools in the U.S. to choose from, why would someone do well to entrust their education to TU Law? TU Law’s commitment to academic excellence and personal attention are fundamental ingredients of the academic programs that make it a special place for aspiring person to learn, grow and excel, both academically and personally. Peering ahead five years, what do you hope you will have been able to accomplish at TU Law and at TU more generally? My top aspirations are raising our law school’s national profile, recruiting outstanding faculty, expanding our programs and offerings in Native American Law, and making contributions to the Tulsa community. With regard to the latter, I’m looking forward to supporting the ongoing development of the Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic, which is named in recognition of a courageous attorney who distinguished himself defending survivors of the 1921 Tulsa Race Massacre. Outside of your life as an academic administrator and scholar, what else would you like people to know about you? My wife, Theresa, and I are the parents of two wonderful sons. Our family has been very active with our local church and our boys keep busy schedules in school working with special needs children in the Special Olympics, as well as school band and the golf and basketball teams. We are all looking forward to being a part of the TU community. Prepared. Practiced. Proven. If that’s the kind of top-flight legal education you’re seeking, you need to consider applying to The University of Tulsa College of Law. Faculty, Featured, Law School, News, Stories Oren Griffin 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT