Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law A top value law school to prepare you for an exceptional future Prepared for practice TU Law students victorious at Regional 2020 National Trial Competition Phone (918) 631-2406 Email LawAdmissions@utulsa.edu https://youtu.be/2wWtF4wX7KY JURIS DOCTOR Admission Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Diversity Diversity Scholarships Frequently Asked Questions Faculty Bulletin/Catalog Information ABA Required Disclosures Important Dates Character & Fitness Jurisdiction Requirements Student Ambassadors SCHEDULE A VISIT REQUEST INFORMATION APPLY Juris Doctor (JD) Ready to excel in legal and related professions? At The University of Tulsa College of Law, you can earn your Juris Doctor in a dynamic program with exceptional bar passage and job placement rates! You’ll get a robust learning experience from an outstanding faculty of scholars, professionals, and mentors. And you’ll earn your degree at law school that’s ranked among the best values, not only in Oklahoma, but also across the United States! #25 – Employment Rate 10 Months after Graduation US News & World Report 83.7% employment full-time, long-term, bar license-required or JD advantage positions within 10 months of graduation 93.1% bar passage rate within 2 years of graduation (ABA) Engaging curriculum From Corporate and Commercial to Sustainable Energy and Natural Resources Law, you’ll enjoy the benefit of strong curricular offerings at TU Law. You can tailor your academic program to enhance your professional interests and your career goals. Internship and externship opportunities At TU Law, you will have access to internship and externship opportunities in a broad range of civil and criminal litigation as well as transactional law. Our externship program, for example, includes over 150 partner organizations from coast to coast. As a result, during your 2L and 3L years you will be able to earn academic credit while gaining practical experience working with clients. Tuition value and scholarships We understand the importance of providing an excellent education at an affordable cost. At $26,098 a year, TU Law offers you a top-notch private legal education for a cost that is under the national average for both public and private law schools nationwide. That’s why we were voted #2 Best Value Private Law School in 2019 by preLaw magazine. Did you know the majority of our students receive scholarships? Learn more about financial aid opportunities here. Top 25 Best Value Law School (preLaw 2021) #2 Best Value Private Law School (preLaw 2019) A for best law school building (preLaw 2020) Ready to apply? Get your application started today and come learn why TU Law is a top value law school that will prepare you for an exceptional future! 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT