Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS School of Law myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Why KU Law Dean's Message News and Events Select to follow link News Calendar Lectures & Conferences KU Law Magazine Dean's Note Communications Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Select to follow link Advisory Committees Diversity in Law Banquet Prelaw Programs History Select to follow link Traditions Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Resources for the Public Select to follow link Income Tax Assistance Legal Aid Medical-Legal Assistance Post-Conviction Appeals Contact Academics Select to follow link Degree Programs Select to follow link J.D. Program Select to follow link Degree Requirements - J.D. Program 2-Year J.D. Select to follow link Program Structure - 2-Year J.D. LL.M. in American Legal Studies Select to follow link Curriculum - LL.M. in American Legal Studies Doctor of Juridical Science (S.J.D.) Select to follow link Program Information - S.J.D. Joint Degrees Select to follow link JD/MBA (Business) JD/MA in East Asian Languages and Cultures JD/MA in Economics JD/MHSA (Health Services Administration) JD/MA in Indigenous Studies JD/MS in Journalism JD/MA in Philosophy JD/MA in Political Science JD/MPA (Public Administration) JD/MSW (Social Work) JD/MUP (Urban Planning) MS in Homeland Security Graduate Certificate in Homeland Security Areas of Study Select to follow link Business & Commercial Law Civil Litigation Constitutional Law Criminal Law Environment, Energy & Natural Resources General Practice Intellectual Property Law International & Comparative Law Litigation Media, Law & Technology Public Law Tax Law Tribal Law Hands-On Learning Select to follow link Clinics Select to follow link Legal Aid Clinic Mediation Clinic Project for Innocence Tribal Judicial Support Clinic Field Placements Select to follow link Criminal Prosecution Field Placement Elder Law Field Placement Field Placement Program Judicial Field Placement Medical-Legal Partnership Field Placement Skills Simulations Pro Bono Program Moot Court Program Mock Trial Program Kansas Journal of Law & Public Policy Kansas Law Review 6th Semester in D.C. Program Courses Select to follow link First-Year Curriculum Online Catalog >> Certificates Select to follow link Advocacy Skills Certificate Business & Commercial Law Certificate Environment, Energy & Natural Resources Law Certificate International Trade & Finance Certificate Media, Law and Technology Certificate Social Justice Certificate Tax Law Certificate Tribal Lawyer Certificate Centers Select to follow link Polsinelli Transactional Law Center Shook, Hardy & Bacon Center for Excellence in Advocacy Tribal Law & Government Center The Dru Mort Sampson Center for Diversity and Inclusion Global Programs Select to follow link Study Abroad Select to follow link Ireland Program Istanbul Program Trento, Italy Aberdeen, Scotland International Partners Visiting Scholars Program Admissions Select to follow link Apply Select to follow link J.D. Applicants Select to follow link Fee Waivers Two-Year J.D. Applicants LL.M. Applicants S.J.D. Applicants Transfer Students Visiting Students Admissions FAQ Visit & Connect Select to follow link Visit KU Law Admissions Events KU Law Video Series Tuition & Scholarships Select to follow link Tuition, Fees & Residency Financial Aid Scholarships Select to follow link Law Scholarship Application Private Scholarships Loan Repayment International Student Admissions Select to follow link Legal English Program Summer Start Student Ambassadors Class Profile LEAD Program Admitted Students Select to follow link Next Steps for Admitted Students Dates & Deadlines Admitted Students Events Select to follow link Admitted Students Weekend Entering Student Program Life at KU Law Life in Lawrence Housing & Child Care Careers Select to follow link Career Resources for Students Select to follow link Application Materials Boot Camp Interview Resources Job Searches Networking Skills Professionalism Career Resources for Alumni Select to follow link Reciprocity Resources for Employers Select to follow link Hire KU Law Interview Programs Career Programs and Events Select to follow link Career Development Programs Clerkships Employment Data Select to follow link Graduate Employment Statistics Select to follow link Employment Statistics Text Version Where Our Alumni Go Bar Exam Performance Symplicity CSO Newsletter Faculty & Research Select to follow link Faculty Profiles Administration Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Library Faculty Staff Research & Scholarship Select to follow link Faculty News Faculty Media Coverage Current Students Select to follow link Academic Resources Select to follow link Enrollment and Course Schedules Select to follow link Academic Calendar Class Schedule Enrollment Instructions Tentative Future Course Offerings Exam Information First-Day Assignments Prerequisites Legal Intern Practice Rule Academic Policies Select to follow link Academic Regulations Determination of Credit Hours for Coursework Disability Accommodations Dispute Resolution Policy Honor Code Records Requests Student Complaints Student Learning Outcomes Student Services Select to follow link Dean's Fellows Health & Wellness Technology Support Bar Exam Information Select to follow link Bar Exam Application Bar Exam Preparation Graduation Student Organizations KU Law Updates & Resources Alumni Select to follow link Alumni Events Select to follow link Reunions U.S. Supreme Court Swearing-In Ceremony Alumni Services Volunteer Select to follow link Board of Governors Distinguished Alumni Give to KU Law Keep In Touch Alumni Directory Library Select to follow link Library Hours Research & Study Guides Legal Databases User Services & Policies Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan Request Ask a Law Librarian About the Library Select to follow link Library Newsletter Fall 2021 Faculty Publications Library Catalog >> Directory Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Public myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo School of Law Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search University of Kansas School of Law At KU Law, students gain the deep knowledge and practice-ready skills needed to become outstanding members of the legal profession. A law school where value matters. KU Law students have access to small class sizes, expert faculty, a collegial environment and hands-on learning programs, all at a reasonable cost. Apply Now Apply Now Visit & Connect Visit & Connect Admissions Admissions Degree Programs Students in the J.D. program learn the foundations of the law, then gain hands-on experience to get ready for practice. KU Law also offers an LL.M. in American Legal Studies, a Doctor of Juridical Science (S.J.D.), a Two-Year J.D. for Foreign-Trained Lawyers, and graduate programs in homeland security law. Degree Programs J.D. Program Areas of Study Students have access to more than 100 upper-level courses in a variety of practice areas. KU Law offers eight certificate programs, more than a dozen curriculum guides and 11 joint degree programs for students looking to specialize. Areas of Study Certificate Programs Centers Hands-On Learning KU Law’s experiential learning program includes a mix of live-client clinics, field placements and skills simulations. Students have access to nine clinics and field placements, plus skills courses, moot court, mock trial and student-edited journals. Hands-On Learning Clinics Field Placements Faculty & Research KU Law faculty are active scholars, researchers and subject matter experts in their fields. Faculty are committed to excellence in the classroom and to serving as mentors for law students, with offices that open into the heart of Green Hall, the Wheat Law Library. Faculty & Research Faculty in the News Statistics and Rankings #11 Nearly 96% of KU Law graduates who took the bar exam for the first time in 2021 passed, with the 11th-highest success rate in the country. The key is careful preparation, aided by KU Law’s Free Bar Prep Program. Bar Exam Stats 94.9% Nearly 95% of graduates in the Class of 2021 landed full-time, long-term law jobs. This is the eighth consecutive year KU Law has reported employment and full-time grad school of 90% or more. Employment Data #13 KU Law's moot court program ranks 13th in the country, according to the University of Houston Law Center. The program has finished in the top 30 nationally for the past six years. More Stats and Rankings 6.6:1 With a faculty-to-student ratio of 6.6:1, students get to know their professors. Faculty are dedicated teachers, scholars and lawyers recognized nationally and abroad as leaders in their fields. Meet the Faculty KU Law News Professor Kyle Velte earns tenure, promotion LAWRENCE – Chancellor Douglas A. Girod has approved the promotion and award of tenure, where indicated, for 50 individuals at the University of Kansas and Edwards campuses and 110 individuals at KU Medical Center campuses. Law school honors Class of 2022 graduates for scholarship, leadership and service Eleven students in the KU Law Class of 2022 received awards at graduation, recognizing their scholarship, leadership and service to the law school and the community. Professor's book chapter traces evolution of Chinese law, current lack of a 'legal soul' KU Law Professor John Head traces the competing philosophies of Chinese law and the evolution of the nation’s legal philosophies over more than 25 centuries in a book chapter for “The Routledge International Handbook of Morality, Cognition, and Emotion in China.” KU Law is 11th in nation for first-time bar exam pass rate KU Law posted the 11th-highest first-time bar exam pass rate nationally, according to an analysis by Reuters. Nearly 96% of KU Law graduates who took a bar exam for the first time during the 2021 calendar year passed. View all news Upcoming Events See all events Resources for Current Students Enrollment, exams, courses and more. Explore resources for current students, including student services and organizations. Current Students Follow KU Law FacebookInstagramTwitterYouTubeLinkedIn Green Hall 1535 W. 15th Street Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 30, 41, 43 admitlaw@ku.edu 785-864-4550 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Apply to KU Law Visit KU Law Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Wheat Law Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.