Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Texas Law News Associated Faculty Member: Stephen I Vladeck Texas Law News Menu Stephen I Vladeck in the News Stephen I Vladeck’s faculty profile External link WABC May 23, 2022 Supreme Court makes it more difficult for prisoners to argue they had ineffective counsel Professor Stephen Vladeck is quoted on a recent Supreme Court ruling that prevents state prisoners from presenting new evidence to prove ineffective post-conviction counsel in state courts. External link New York Times May 18, 2022 Justice Dept. Employees Urge Administration to Grant Leave for Out-of-State Abortions Professor Stephen Vladeck speaks on potential implications of the federal government granting employees time off for abortion-related travel. External link MSNBC May 17, 2022 Buffalo shooter’s Twitch video presents a test case for Texas — and SCOTUS In light of a recent Twitch stream of a hate crime shooting in Buffalo, Professor Stephen Vladeck authors an opinion piece on the new Texas HB20 law, which prevents social media sites from censoring or moderating user content. External link MSNBC May 14, 2022 The Supreme Court leaks are transparent political plays Professor Steve Vladeck authors an op-ed about the possible political reasoning behind the recent Supreme Court leaks. External link Above the Law May 11, 2022 Latest SCOTUS Leak Confirms It’s All About Manipulation A tweet by Professor Steve Vladeck about the intent of the Supreme Court leak regarding Roe v Wade was referenced in an article. External link Bloomberg Law May 6, 2022 Roe v. Wade on the Brink of Extinction Professor Stephen Vladeck gives his opinion in an episode of the Bloomberg Law Podcast on the Roe v. Wade draft leak, and what it reveals about the political state of the Supreme Court. External link The Washington Post May 3, 2022 Would DOJ charge someone for leaking SCOTUS abortion opinion draft? Professor Steve Vladeck shares his opinion in a quote discussing the possibility of a criminal charge for the leak of the Roe v. Wade draft. External link Washington Post May 3, 2022 Opinion: Supreme Court leak signals the triumph of politics over the law Professor Stephen Vladeck co-authors an opinion piece on how the recent Supreme Court Roe v. Wade leak signals politics being the new deciding factor in the Supreme Court, instead of the law. External link CNN May 3, 2022 What we know about the investigation into the Supreme Court leak Professor Stephen Vladeck provides insight for the investigation into the Roe v. Wade draft leak, questioning what type of crime can be reasonably charged against the responsible individual. External link USA Today May 2, 2022 Explosive leaked draft in abortion case reveals Supreme Court on verge of overturning Roe A tweet by Professor Steve Vladeck was quoted in an article about Justice Alito's leaked opinion proposing the overturning of Roe v Wade. 1 2 3 … 22 Texas Law News Alumni Magazine Archives Latest News Faculty in the News For the Media Contact Us Twitter Tweets by UTexasLaw Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.