Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Career Services Staff Area: Career Services Department Contact Career Services You may schedule a career counseling appointment on Symplicity or by calling us at 512-232-1150. David A. Montoya Assistant Dean for Career Services Counseling specialties: Law Firms (particularly large firms) David heads the CSO, overseeing day-to-day operations, managing and developing resources for student career assistance, developing policies and procedures, conducting employer outreach, and counseling students. A native of Santa Fe, New Mexico, David earned a B. A. in business administration from the University of Notre Dame in 1985, where he was designated a Notre Dame Scholar. He received his J.D. from The University of Texas School of Law in 1995. Before attending law school, he was a CPA and worked for Arthur Andersen, LLP, a former international CPA firm, and Burlington Resources, a former Fortune 500 Company in the Oil & Gas industry. David practiced law for nearly ten years with firms in Texas, and was a partner with Jackson Walker, LLP in the Commercial Litigation and Corporate Reorganizations/Restructuring sections, primarily serving the telecommunications, technology and financial services industries. He served on recruiting and hiring committees for several past employers, and has extensive recruiting, interviewing, and hiring experience. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1155 Angélica Salinas Evans Associate Director for Career Services Counseling specialties: Corporate/In-House and Nonpracticing/J.D. Advantage Careers Angélica works directly with the Assistant Dean in developing policies and procedures for students and employers, and works towards technological enhancements to connect students and employers with the CSO. In addition, she counsels students interested in corporate or nonpracticing/J.D. advantage careers. She also oversees the online Texas Law Mentor Directory. Prior to joining the CSO, Angélica spent seven years at the Texas Department of Insurance (TDI) as the Counsel and Assistant Director to the Fraud Unit. She has a wide range of legal experience, also having served as In-House Counsel to the Center for Health Care Services in San Antonio; Staff Attorney for TDI’s Enforcement Division; Contracts & Credentialing Director for Austin-Travis County MHMR Center; and as a solo practitioner focusing on family and criminal law matters. She received her J.D. from The University of Texas School of Law in 1995 and her B.A. in History from Texas A&M University in 1991. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1159 Denyse Demel Career Counselor Counseling specialties: Law Firms (small, midsize, and large firms) Denyse advises students who are interested in working in law firms. Denyse earned her B.A. in Economics with honors from The University of Texas at Austin in 2003 and her J.D. with honors from The University of Texas School of Law in 2006. While a student at Texas Law, Denyse was involved with the Women’s Law Caucus, Texas Review of Entertainment and Sports Law, and the Action Committee for Career Services. After law school, she practiced as a corporate and securities associate at Jackson Walker LLP in Dallas. During her time there, Denyse advised clients on a variety of business transactional matters including the representation of both buyers and sellers in public and private M&A transactions, private debt and equity offerings, corporate governance matters, and 1934 Act filings with the SEC. She also served as a mentor to summer associates. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1162 Marilyn Drees Career Counselor Counseling specialties: Law Firms (small, midsize, and large firms) Marilyn advises students who are interested in working in law firms and can provide insights to those interested in teaching law. Marilyn earned her B.A. from the University of Alabama and her J.D. from Stanford Law School, where she served as a Note Editor on the Stanford Law Review. She began her legal career with a clerkship on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit and then joined the firm now known as Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman in Washington, D.C., as an associate in the real estate group. She later practiced with Marriott Corporation’s Hotel Development Division and served in the government as a lawyer for the Resolution Trust Corporation. She has taught Property, Land Use, and other law school courses related to real estate and finance. Most recently, Marilyn served for more than 20 years in the Yale Law School Career Development Office where she focused primarily on judicial clerkships but also worked with students seeking opportunities in the public and private sectors, as well as legal academia. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1165 Mindy Finnigan Director of Professional Development Career Development Coach Mindy provides in-depth career coaching and professional development support covering a wide range of topics including self-assessment, career exploration, and job search strategy. Mindy earned her B.A. in Social Work with High Distinction from the University of Iowa and her J.D. magna cum laude from Indiana University Maurer School of Law. After graduating from law school, Mindy clerked for the Honorable Richard L. Young in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana and then practiced in Chicago as a litigator for more than 10 years. Most recently, Mindy served as the Associate Director of Career Services at the University of Chicago Law School for three years before moving to Austin. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1163 Abbey Fowler Career Counselor Counseling specialties: Government Abbey advises students who are interested in working in local, state, and federal government positions. She creates materials and presents panels and workshops on government-related topics and coordinates the Public Service Career Fair along with Rachel Quiroz and Tim Morales. Abbey earned her B.A. in International Studies with a Major in Spanish and B.A. in Political Science from Virginia Tech and her J.D. from the University of Miami School of Law. While attending law school, Abbey was Managing Editor of Psychology, Public Policy, and the Law Journal, received the Youth Law Public Service Summer Fellowship, and was a student member of Miami Law Women and the American Bar Association. After law school, she worked in both the Dallas County District Attorney’s Office and the Office of the Attorney General of Texas. Most recently, Abbey was an assistant district attorney with the Travis County District Attorney’s Office in Austin. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1154 Mary Murphy Career Counselor Counseling specialties: Public Interest and Public Defense Mary advises students considering careers in public interest law. She creates materials and presents panels and workshops on public interest-related topics and coordinates the Public Service Expo along with Tim Morales. Mary earned her B.A. in Social Justice Analysis from Georgetown University in 2006 and her J.D. from The University of Texas School of Law in 2011. While attending Texas Law, Mary was Editor-in-Chief of the Texas Journal on Civil Liberties and Civil Rights and a member of the Public Interest Law Association. After law school, Mary was awarded a Public Defender Corps fellowship, funded by Equal Justice Works and Gideon’s Promise, to practice as a staff attorney at the Orleans Public Defenders where she represented clients in misdemeanor and felony cases for more than three years. Most recently, Mary has been a staff attorney with the Louisiana Center for Children’s Rights in New Orleans. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1157 Kathleen Overly Director of Judicial Programs Counseling specialties: Judicial Clerkships Kathleen advises students interested in judicial clerkships. She graduated from Wake Forest University with a BA in Sociology and Political Science and then attended The University of Michigan Law School. After law school, she practiced at DLA Piper and Sidley Austin. Kathleen left practice for law school administration, first for four years at The University of Pennsylvania Law School and then for three years at Yale Law School. At Yale, she was the Associate Dean of Student Affairs where she managed the Career Services Office. Send Email Rachel Smith Career Counselor Counseling specialties: Law Firms, Judicial Internships, and LL.M. students Rachel advises students interested in law firms and judicial internships as well as foreign and domestic law students in the LL.M. program. After earning a B.A. in English with honors from Tufts University, Rachel moved to New York to attend Fordham University School of Law, where she earned her J.D. with honors in 2011. As part of a dual degree program, she spent her third year of law school in Paris, France where she earned an L.L.M. in European Union Law from Universite Pantheon-Assas. While in law school, Rachel was actively involved as a mentor with Fordham Law Women and as a staff member of the Fordham Law Review. Upon graduation, Rachel joined Arnold & Porter Kaye Scholar as an associate specializing in intellectual property and general litigation. Upon returning to her hometown of Austin and prior to joining the CSO, she worked for the College of Liberal Arts at UT-Austin. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1164 Valerie Flores Resource Coordinator Valerie greets visitors, handles reciprocity requests, and schedules career counseling appointments. She maintains the CSO's Job Bank on Symplicity and handles special projects as needed for the Assistant Dean and Associate Director. Valerie received her B.S. in Communication and Leadership from The University of Texas at Austin. While an undergrad, she was a research assistant for The Center for Health Communication at the University of Texas at Austin for two years. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1150 Deb Freeman Assistant Director for Communications Deb markets the CSO's services and programs to students, alumni, and employers. She serves as content manager for the CSO website and Canvas site; designs and co-edits all CSO marketing materials and publications; and handles requests for class lists and various data points. She publishes CSO Law Mail; manages the CSO Twitter account (@UTLawCSO), CSO Blog, and Texas Law Alumni-Student Connections group on LinkedIn; and supervises the student-based Action Committee for Career Services. Deb also handles marketing and logistics for the annual Texas Law Professional Development Institute. A native of Fort Worth, Deb received her B.A. in Sociology from The University of Texas at Austin. She previously worked for the Texas Music Office and Texas Film Commission in the Office of the Governor. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1156 Tim Morales Events Specialist Tim coordinates the on-campus Public Service Expo and Public Service Table Talk as well as off-campus interview programs. Additionally, he handles program logistics for CSO panels, workshops, and networking receptions. Tim graduated from Texas State University with a B.A. in Criminal Justice. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1152 Rachel Quiroz On-Campus Interviews Coordinator Rachel coordinates our August, October, and Spring On-Campus Interviews, as well as Public Service Career Fair, by recruiting and scheduling employers, collecting and distributing student materials, familiarizing students and employers with various Symplicity modules, and facilitating interview schedules. She also oversees the Mock Interview Program for 1Ls. Rachel graduated from The University of Texas at Austin with a B.S. in Health Education. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1161 Cecilia Solis-Bautista Administrative Analyst Cecilia compiles summer and graduate employment statistics as well as other statistical information. She also assists with additional student and postgraduate projects for the Assistant Dean, Associate Director, and staff. She graduated from The University of Texas at Austin with a B.A. in Spanish and Linguistics. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1151 Andrea Stanfill Castro Judicial Clerkship Program Coordinator Andrea provides administrative support to the Judicial Clerkship Program. Prior to joining the CSO, she worked for the College of Liberal Arts at the Hindi Urdu Flagship. Andrea graduated from The University of Texas at Austin with a B.A. in International Relations and Global Studies and a B.A. in French. Send Email Phone: 512-232-1514 Contact Us Career Services Office Hours Monday-Friday, 8 a.m.- 5 p.m. Room TNH 3.130 727 E. Dean Keeton Austin, TX 78705 Phone 512-232-1150 Fax 512-471-6790 Email cso@law.utexas.edu Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.