Skip Navigation Alumni Faculty Staff Students COVID-19 Studying Law at Yale Our Faculty Centers & Workshops Student Life Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions & Financial Aid JD Admissions Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Nondiscrimination, Title IX, and Clery Act Statements Virtual Tour YLS Today YLS Today News Events In The Press Videos Reports & Publications Social Media Media Inquiries Submit an Event Search Search Menu Studying Law at Yale Areas of Interest Degree Programs Clinical and Experiential Learning Courses Academic Calendar & Resources Alumni & Student Profiles Law Library The Tsai Leadership Program Our Faculty Faculty Lecturers & Affiliates Faculty Activities & Scholarship Student Life Our School & Location Student Services Career Development Health & Wellness Student News & Opinion Programs and Opportunities Student Journals & Organizations Discrimination and Harassment Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Policies, Resources, and Reporting Search Search Studying Law at Yale back Studying Law at Yale Areas of Interest Degree Programs Clinical and Experiential Learning Courses Academic Calendar & Resources Alumni & Student Profiles Law Library The Tsai Leadership Program Our Faculty back Our Faculty Faculty Lecturers & Affiliates Faculty Activities & Scholarship Centers & Workshops Student Life back Student Life Our School & Location Student Services Career Development Health & Wellness Student News & Opinion Programs and Opportunities Student Journals & Organizations Discrimination and Harassment Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Policies, Resources, and Reporting Admissions & Financial Aid back Admissions & Financial Aid JD Admissions Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Nondiscrimination, Title IX, and Clery Act Statements Virtual Tour YLS Today back YLS Today News Events In The Press Videos Reports & Publications Social Media Media Inquiries Submit an Event Alumni Faculty Staff Students COVID-19 International Applicants Menu Apply to Yale Law School Application Components Application Process International Applicants Joint Degree Applicants Transfer & Visiting Applicants Home Admissions & Financial Aid JD Admissions Apply to Yale Law School International Applicants A Global Community Yale Law School is a truly global community, both in the breadth of available opportunities and in the composition of our student body. Students enjoy the intimacy of a small program, the camaraderie of many international peers, and the ability to cultivate close relationships with the Yale Law School faculty. Yale University hosts more than 3,500 international students and scholars representing more than 100 countries. The Office of International Students & Scholars (OISS) is the primary contact for international student support services at Yale and their staff is available to answer students' questions and to help with any concerns that arise. Frequently Asked Questions Is the application process different for international students? Our application process is virtually the same for all applicants, regardless of their country of origin, including standardized testing. All applicants are required to take either the LSAT or GRE exam for admission to the J.D. program. Additionally, the Law School accepts results from the LSAT-Flex and the GRE General Test at Home. We do not require the TOEFL exam for any applicants, regardless of citizenship or native language. Of course, international students may have additional logistical concerns to consider in applying to J.D. programs in a different country, including student visas and baccalaureate equivalency. If you have any questions in this regard, please visit the LSAC website (Steps To Apply: J.D. Programs) for more clarification, as these guidelines will apply to your applications to all U.S. law schools. Is the evaluation process different for international students? No. All of our applicants are given full consideration, regardless of citizenship. Yale Law School’s scholarly community is globally extensive, and part of our institutional commitment to diversity includes the enrollment of an internationally diverse class. The Admissions Committee will evaluate academic performance by a comprehensive review of all official transcripts, including international transcripts, in the LSAC CAS report. LSAC determines U.S. baccalaureate equivalency and calculates GPAs from international transcripts, when necessary. For additional information in this regard, please review LSAC's US/Canadian Transcript Summarization and International Transcripts policies. International applicants are also encouraged to use the World Education Services free transcript evaluation tool to verify the equivalence and transferability of completed coursework prior to applying. Is advance standing possible based on the completion of an LL.B. program (or its equivalent)? Unfortunately, advance standing will not be granted for the completion of coursework in LL.B. and baccalaureate programs. Special requests for advance standing are granted in incredibly rare circumstances and on a case-by-case basis, although these requests are not considered during the application process. If I have already earned an LL.M. degree, for what program am I eligible to apply? As an applicant who holds an LL.M. degree, you are eligible to apply to the J.D. program as a first-time applicant. Our transfer application process is only for applicants who have already completed one year of legal coursework in a J.D. program at an ABA-accredited U.S. institution. How does financial aid work for international students? Financial aid available to international students is very similar to the financial aid available to domestic students: Yale Law School meets 100% of demonstrated financial need with a combination of loans and scholarships. International students are eligible for two types of financial aid: need-based institutional grants/scholarships and the Yale Graduate and Professional International Loan (YGPI). The information that applicants submit through our Financial Aid Application & Scholarship Tool (FAAST) will determine eligibility for need-based institutional grants/scholarships. It is also important to note that there is no tuition difference for domestic and international students. Tuition rates are the same, for all students, regardless of citizenship. Please visit the Financial Aid website for information regarding tuition, cost of attendance, and our financial aid policies. Contact About Us Virtual Tour Give Now Vimeo Linkedin Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube 127 Wall Street New Haven, CT 06511 203.432.4992 News Events Media Contacts Offices & Services Law Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Yale Directory Yale University Homepage © Yale Law School Contact Webmaster Web Accessibility Privacy Policy Emergency Info This website is supported by the Oscar M. Ruebhausen Fund at Yale Law School