Skip to main content × Search Search Info For: Applicants Students Faculty Staff Media Make a Gift Main menu toggle Search Info For: Applicants Students Faculty Staff Media Make a Gift Main menu toggle Main menu toggle Mega Menu Skip menu to main content Overview Info for: Apply Study Faculty & Research Life at Duke Law Careers About Alumni Faculty & Staff Directory Event Calendar Goodson Law Library News Technology ABA Required Disclosures Follow Duke Law Duke Law on Youtube Duke Law on Twitter Duke Law on Facebook Duke Law on Instagram Return to start of menu Close menu Applicants Students Faculty Staff Media Overview Juris Doctor International LLM Master of Judicial Studies Dual Degrees SJD LLM in Law & Entrepreneurship Areas of Focus Public Interest & Pro Bono Summer Institutes PreLaw Fellowship Program Visit Admissions Contact Overview COVID-19 Updates Academic Advising Academic Calendar Course Browser Degree Requirements Clinics and Externships Legal Writing Wintersession Study Abroad Registration Portal Staff Overview Faculty Profiles Scholarship Visiting Assistant Professor Program Centers Journals Faculty Workshops Law & Economics Colloquium Teaching & Learning Overview Student Resources Student Organizations Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Public Interest & Pro Bono Student Events LEAD Week Graduation Overview Prospective Students JD Students International LLMs Alumni Employers Events Employment Data Staff Overview Administration Faculty & Staff Directory Facilities ABA Required Disclosures A History of Duke Law School Durham: The Bull City Visiting Duke Law Rules & Policies Overview News & Events Engage Giving Reunion Alumni Benefits Update Your Address Event Refund Policy Staff Return to start of menu Close menu Overview Info for: Applicants Students Faculty Staff Media Apply Overview Juris Doctor International LLM Master of Judicial Studies Dual Degrees SJD LLM in Law & Entrepreneurship Areas of Focus Public Interest & Pro Bono Summer Institutes PreLaw Fellowship Program Visit Admissions Contact Study Overview COVID-19 Updates Academic Advising Academic Calendar Course Browser Degree Requirements Clinics and Externships Legal Writing Wintersession Study Abroad Registration Portal Staff Faculty & Research Overview Faculty Profiles Scholarship Visiting Assistant Professor Program Centers Journals Faculty Workshops Law & Economics Colloquium Teaching & Learning Life at Duke Law Overview Student Resources Student Organizations Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Public Interest & Pro Bono Student Events LEAD Week Graduation Careers Overview Prospective Students JD Students International LLMs Alumni Employers Events Employment Data Staff About Overview Administration Faculty & Staff Directory Facilities ABA Required Disclosures A History of Duke Law School Durham: The Bull City Visiting Duke Law Rules & Policies Alumni Overview News & Events Engage Giving Reunion Alumni Benefits Update Your Address Event Refund Policy Staff Faculty & Staff Directory Event Calendar Goodson Law Library News Technology ABA Required Disclosures 210 Science Drive | Durham, NC 27708 | 919-613-7006 Follow Duke Law Duke Law on Youtube Duke Law on Twitter Duke Law on Facebook Duke Law on Instagram Submitted by webservices on Fri, 11/30/2018 - 4:00 PM Banner Apply Landing Page Heading with Paragraph A legal education that goes beyond a degree. Duke Law School is an ambitious, forward-thinking, and innovative institution whose mission is to prepare students for responsible and productive lives in the legal profession. As a community of scholars, the Law School also provides leadership at the national and international levels in efforts to improve the law and legal institutions through teaching, research, and other forms of public service. Landing Page Content Slide Juris Doctor Rigorous, relevant, innovative, and interdisciplinary. Learn More about Juris Doctor LLM for International Students Training top students and lawyers from around the world. Learn More about LLM for International Students Master of Judicial Studies A remarkable nucleus of scholars and experts delivering an intensive and challenging curriculum for sitting judges. Learn More about the Master of Judicial Studies Dual Degrees Pursue two world-class degrees at once and prepare yourself for a career at the intersection of law and another discipline. Learn More about Dual Degrees Doctor of Juridical Science Rigorous education for aspiring legal academics. Learn More about the Doctor of Juridical Science LLM in Law & Entrepreneurship At the intersection of law, business, and innovation. Learn More about the LLM in Law & Entrepreneurship Landing Page Heading with Paragraph Why Duke, Why Now? Duke Law is serious about academics. But we're also serious about creating "whole lawyers," people whose lives and interests and work complement each other. Here, you'll find a community of people who are as passionate about life as they are about their studies. We balance hard work with fun, intellectual engagement and purposeful living. At Duke Law, we firmly believe you can have it all. Landing Page Three Column News The Duke Way At Duke Law School, we like to follow a set of values that we believe set us apart from other law schools. Learn More about The Duke Way Public Interest The value of service is core to the profession and central to the Duke Law experience. Learn More about Public Interest Diversity at Duke Law Diversity is more than a statement or a goal: it is part of our educational mission. Learn More about Diversity at Duke Law Summer Institutes Courses with Duke Law faculty in The Hague, Washington, D.C., and here in Durham. Learn More about Summer Institutes Durham: The Bull City The secret is out: Durham is a great place to live. Learn More about Durham: The Bull City Plan a Visit Choosing a law school is a significant decision and visiting is one of the best ways to see if a school is right for you. Learn more about Planning a Visit Landing Page Additional Data Additional Information Pre-Law Fellowship Program Introducing talented rising college sophomores and juniors to the study of law and the legal profession. Learn More about the Pre-Law Fellowship Program Duke Law Women An integrated experience that recognizes both women’s essential role in the profession and their still-salient challenges. Learn More about Duke Law Women ABA Required Disclosures This page provides access to information about Duke Law School as required by the American Bar Association. Learn More about ABA Required Disclosures Visit the Duke Law homepage Footer menu Apply Study Faculty & Research Life at Duke Law Careers About Alumni Goodson Law Library ABA Required Disclosures Website Feedback 210 Science Drive | Durham, NC 27708 | 919-613-7006 FOLLOW DUKE LAW On Instagram On Facebook On Twitter On Youtube 210 Science Drive | Durham, NC 27708 | 919-613-7006 Get Directions © 2022 Duke University School of Law, All rights reserved