Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Experiential Learning: Pro Bono Program Experiential Learning: Pro Bono Program Menu Richard and Ginni Mithoff Pro Bono Program The Richard and Ginni Mithoff Pro Bono Program offers pro bono opportunities to all students at Texas Law and promotes an ethic of service throughout the law school. The Mithoff Program empowers students to use their developing legal knowledge and skills to address unmet legal needs in the community starting as early as their first semester at Texas Law. Students often get as much back from these projects as they give, through opportunities to explore diverse areas of substantive law and develop practical lawyering skills. The Mithoff Program also introduces students to the legal profession’s tradition and ethical obligation of pro bono service, and helps students incorporate a commitment to service into their professional identities. The Mithoff Program is part of the William Wayne Justice Center for Public Interest Law and plays a central role in fulfilling the Justice Center’s mission to promote equal justice for all and to support public service in the legal profession. Experiential Learning: Pro Bono Program About Richard and Ginni Mithoff Student Leaders Staff Partners In the News Projects Current Opportunities Service Trips Special Projects Past Projects Initiating a Project For Students Pro Bono Pledge Pro Bono Guidelines Reporting Hours Student Obligations For Nonprofits and Attorneys For the Public Legal Resources Mithoff Pro Bono Program Clinics Experiential Learning Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.