Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Quality education Princeton Review's Best Law Schools for 2019 Tim L. Thompson Assistant Dean of Online Legal Education MJ-admissions@utulsa.edu 918-631-2408 https://youtu.be/hpVBh4S9xAk MASTER OF JURISPRUDENCE Master of Jurisprudence in Energy Law (MJEL) Master of Jurisprudence in Indian Law (MJIL) Bulletin/Catalog Information PLEASE NOTE: The College of Law is not accepting applications or matriculating new students into the M.J.E.L. program beyond the fall 2019 term. TU Law’s graduate law and policy degrees for non-lawyers are designed to provide the education and hands-on training necessary for graduates to make a positive impact on their world while succeeding in an exciting and rewarding career. The degrees are offered in both part-time and full-time formats with candidates generally taking five to nine credits per term. Candidates enrolled on a part-time basis (2-8 credit hours per term) are generally expected to complete the program in four to six terms. Candidates enrolling full-time (9-12 credit hours per term) may expect to complete the degree as quickly as a year. Online Master of Jurisprudence in Energy Law (MJEL) To address the distinct needs of energy and natural resource professionals, as well as practicing attorneys and scholars with interest in energy law, The University of Tulsa College of Law offers a cutting-edge online graduate degree program, the Master of Jurisprudence in Energy Law (MJEL). The MJEL delivers unparalleled academic experiences and career results. The MJEL is an immersive, online graduate degree program that accelerates careers. It is available in part-time and full-time formats to students across the country and can be completed in 18–24 months. For those working in or entering into the dynamic field of energy, natural resources, and environmental law, there is no preparation as powerful as the MJEL degree. Learn more Online Master of Jurisprudence in Indian Law (MJIL) To address the distinct needs of those in tribal leadership and management, as well as professionals at state and federal agencies, practicing attorneys, and scholars with interest in Indian law, The University of Tulsa College of Law provides a unique online graduate program offering unparalleled academic experiences and career results: the Master of Jurisprudence in Indian Law (MJIL). Whether you already work in or with tribal government leadership or are seeking to launch a career through which you can contribute to a tribal community, choosing the MJIL program could change everything for you. The MJIL program is available in part-time and full-time formats to students across the country and can be completed in 18-24 months. For professionals and paraprofessionals looking to work more effectively in Indian Country, there is no preparation quite as powerful as the MJIL degree. PLEASE NOTE: The College of Law is not accepting applications or matriculating new students into the M.J.I.L. program beyond the fall 2019 term. Learn more 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT