Skip Navigation Alumni Faculty Staff Students COVID-19 Studying Law at Yale Our Faculty Centers & Workshops Student Life Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions & Financial Aid JD Admissions Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Nondiscrimination, Title IX, and Clery Act Statements Virtual Tour YLS Today YLS Today News Events In The Press Videos Reports & Publications Social Media Media Inquiries Submit an Event Search Search Menu Studying Law at Yale Areas of Interest Degree Programs Clinical and Experiential Learning Courses Academic Calendar & Resources Alumni & Student Profiles Law Library The Tsai Leadership Program Our Faculty Faculty Lecturers & Affiliates Faculty Activities & Scholarship Student Life Our School & Location Student Services Career Development Health & Wellness Student News & Opinion Programs and Opportunities Student Journals & Organizations Discrimination and Harassment Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Policies, Resources, and Reporting Search Search Studying Law at Yale back Studying Law at Yale Areas of Interest Degree Programs Clinical and Experiential Learning Courses Academic Calendar & Resources Alumni & Student Profiles Law Library The Tsai Leadership Program Our Faculty back Our Faculty Faculty Lecturers & Affiliates Faculty Activities & Scholarship Centers & Workshops Student Life back Student Life Our School & Location Student Services Career Development Health & Wellness Student News & Opinion Programs and Opportunities Student Journals & Organizations Discrimination and Harassment Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Policies, Resources, and Reporting Admissions & Financial Aid back Admissions & Financial Aid JD Admissions Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Nondiscrimination, Title IX, and Clery Act Statements Virtual Tour YLS Today back YLS Today News Events In The Press Videos Reports & Publications Social Media Media Inquiries Submit an Event Alumni Faculty Staff Students COVID-19 Home Centers & Workshops Yale Law School Center for Private Law The Yale Law School Center for Private Law promotes teaching and research in contracts (including commercial law, corporate finance, bankruptcy, and arbitration), property (including intellectual property), and torts at Yale Law School and in the broader legal community. The Center supports scholars, students, and practicing lawyers in all these areas and seeks, especially, to sponsor serious and sustained intellectual engagements among groups who share interests but do not often interact. The Center is directed by Daniel Markovits, Guido Calabresi Professor of Law, together with Konstanze von Schütz, Yale’s Fellow in Private Law. The Seminar in Private Law, which meets each spring term, brings speakers from academia and practice to the Law School to present papers organized around a common theme that crosses disciplinary and doctrinal boundaries. Programs for students emphasize the practical and intellectual depth of private law and the many perspectives that might help to understand it. The Center, together with the Law School’s Career Development Office, sponsors speakers and mentors-in-residence to provide students with examples of career paths in private law. A series of informal student lunches provides students with further information and advice on how best to prepare for careers in private law. The Center also publicizes the Law School’s private law offerings, helping to arrange them into organized courses of study to better prepare YLS students for practice. The Center convenes additional events—lectures, roundtables, panels, and symposia—to provide further opportunities for addressing prominent and pressing issues that concern private law, as these arise. Contact Us For questions about the Center, write to us at private.law@yale.edu. Seminar in Private Law Each spring term, the Seminar in Private Law brings speakers from academia and practice to Yale Law School to present papers addressing a common theme. Private Law Courses The Law School offers many courses addressing private law. Private Law Events The center hosts symposia and other events throughout the year. Affiliated Faculty Many of the Law School’s faculty members are devoted to scholarship and teaching in the private law arena. Private Law News Read recent news from the Private Law Center. Contact About Us Virtual Tour Give Now Vimeo Linkedin Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube 127 Wall Street New Haven, CT 06511 203.432.4992 News Events Media Contacts Offices & Services Law Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Yale Directory Yale University Homepage © Yale Law School Contact Webmaster Web Accessibility Privacy Policy Emergency Info This website is supported by the Oscar M. Ruebhausen Fund at Yale Law School