Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law Professional Development STUDENT SUCCESS TU Law students instrumental in gaining freedom for 29 prisoners HOURS Monday-Friday 8:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. PHONE 918-631-2430 CONTACT https://youtu.be/JWoYLEiuByc PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Graduate Employment Outcomes Mentoring Program Employers Reciprocity Policy Job Postings Meet the Staff The University of Tulsa College of Law Professional Development Office offers career development services to TU Law students and alumni. The PDO prides itself on learning about each student’s unique skill set and interest areas to provide a high level of individualized service. Services Individualized career counseling Compass, TU Law’s online job posting platform, and a weekly jobs email blast Résumé, cover letter, and interviewing assistance Mock interviews with local attorneys On-Campus Interview Program and resume collection Career resource library Job fair information and funding assistance Programming aimed at résumé preparation, interview skills, and job success Networking events and mentorship opportunities Law student business cards The PDO works with students on career strategies before they ever enter the classroom, beginning with the one-week Foundations of Legal Study (FLS) orientation program. FLS is designed to equip law students for academic and professional success. Not only do students receive guidance on preparing for class, they tour the federal courthouse and meet the judges; attend social activities with deans, faculty, and alumni; and participate in a public service project organized by the TU Law Public Interest Board. TU Law alumni receive lifetime access to the PDO and Compass, the online job posting platform. (To access an alumni Compass account, please email tulaw-pdo@utulsa.edu or call 918-631-2430.) Individualized Career Counseling Throughout law school, the PDO provides each student with individualized career counseling with former practicing attorneys who have experienced the law school process. The PDO offers programming designed to assist students with résumé writing, interviewing skills, and preparation for success on the job and includes a mock interview program with local attorneys. Networking events throughout the year serve to introduce students to TU Law alumni, local judges, and other professionals and assists students in finding a mentor. The On-Campus Interview Program during the spring and fall helps students secure internships and clerkships locally or throughout the nation in their specific areas of interest. Through the Licensed Legal Intern (LLI) program, students gain in-court experience either through the Lobeck Taylor Community Advocacy Clinic or in an internship or externship under the supervision of an Oklahoma licensed attorney. On-Campus Interview Program The PDO hosts an On-Campus Interview Program during the spring and fall to help students secure local or national internships and clerkships in their specific areas of interest. TU Law invites employers to participate in the On-Campus Interview Program (OCI) every fall and spring. The Professional Development Office encourages employers to visit campus to interview exceptional law students for summer, part-time, or full-time associate attorney positions. The PDO encourages employers to consider first- and second-year TU Law students for summer or other part-time internships and third-year students for post-graduate positions. The PDO accommodates employers who are interested in interviewing students outside of the OCI session dates. To arrange a custom interview session, receive more information, or to participate in our upcoming OCI program, please email tulaw-pdo@utulsa.edu or call 918-631-2430. Employers may also submit a job posting online or register and post open positions directly on Compass, the TU Law jobs platform. Spring 2022 On-Campus Interview Dates Phase 1: February 7-11 Phase 2: April 4-8 Resume Collection The Professional Development Office is happy to collect job application materials on behalf of employers and provide them in an electronic book format so they may make interview selections and arrangements directly with law students or graduates. For more information, please contact the PDO at 918-631-2430 or tulaw-pdo@utulsa.edu. Practical Training In addition to internship, externship, and clinic opportunities, TU Law offers all students practical training opportunities to supplement their coursework. The Richard B. Risk Practicum Series The annual Richard B. Risk endowed practicum series focuses on a variety of subjects, including settlement planning. The endowment allows members of the legal profession who have established themselves as experts in their fields to make presentations for students and young alumni at the College of Law. TU Law offers one hour of CLE credit per session for the legal community at no charge. See upcoming sessions Judge Eagan Criminal Defense Practicum The Honorable Claire V. Eagan, Chief Judge for the Northern District of Oklahoma, offers a Federal Criminal Defense Practicum in each spring. The practicum is a 10-week program and is held during lunch at the Page Belcher Federal Building in Tulsa. Judge Eagan or another instructor associated with the federal courts leads each session. Students receive practical instruction on federal criminal practice and have the opportunity to interact with an incredible group of practitioners and experts. Basic Mediation and Family Relations Mediation Training TU College of Law facilitates this six-day Basic Mediation and Family Relations Mediation Training (FRMT) in conjunction with the Oklahoma Supreme Court. Students and recent graduates who attend FRMT become certified mediators in Oklahoma and agree to mediate family relations cases and small claims cases in the Tulsa county courts. TU College of Law is the only law school in the state to host the FRMT for students. Tulsa Lawyers for Children Training Tulsa Lawyers for Children, Inc. (TLC) recruits, trains, and assists volunteer attorneys who represent children who have been abused, neglected, or abandoned and who are subjects of deprived cases in the Tulsa County Juvenile Court. TLC volunteers include litigators and family lawyers along with corporate attorneys, former judges, former general counsels of large public companies, patent and trademark attorneys, law school professors, and many others who bring their experience, talent, and dedication to assist in these confidential juvenile proceedings. TU Law students attend the same training as attorney volunteers and then volunteer as legal assistants to assist TLC attorneys on their cases. Students are provided the chance to learn the intricacies of this system while providing valuable volunteer service. Licensed Legal Internship Program (LLI) The Licensed Legal Internship Program (LLI) allows law students to gain in-court experience through participation in a legal clinic or an internship or externship under the supervision of an Oklahoma attorney. For more information, please contact the Professional Development Office at 918-631-2430 or tulaw-pdo@utulsa.edu. Dean's Seminar During the first semester, Dean Lyn Entzeroth and Associate Dean and Director of Professional Development, Rachel Baker lead the Dean’s Seminar to introduce 1Ls to the legal practice and help begin personal career development. Students learn about the current legal market, potential career paths, and leadership skills. The course culminates in a one-on-one meeting with the Deans to form each student’s individual professional development plan. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT