Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Beck Center Beck Center Menu The David J. Beck Center for Legal Research, Writing, and Appellate Advocacy Invariably, it is this for which I write: the joy . . . of an argument firmly made, like a nail straightly driven, its head flush to the plank. — George Will The Beck Center provides all students at Texas Law with a foundation for excellence in legal research, oral presentation, oral argument, and most importantly, legal writing. The center is the organizational focal point for the required first-year courses in legal research and legal writing as well as advanced courses available to upper-class students. In addition, the Beck Center sponsors the law school’s interscholastic moot court teams, which travel to national and international competitions. Beck Center faculty teach the first-year legal research and writing courses. Each year the Beck Center faculty choose the recipients of the Beck Award for Legal Research and Writing Excellence, awarded to one or more students at the conclusion of the first year. Legal Writing At Texas Law we place a high priority on producing great writers, and we have one of the top programs for that purpose in the country: the David J. Beck Center for Legal Research, Writing, and Appellate Advocacy. Beck Center faculty aren’t part-timers or teaching assistants; we have eight full-time instructors whose only job is to help our students make their writing compelling and effective. Throughout your first year, you’ll meet in a class of 20 to learn how to craft powerful legal arguments in written form. You’ll also be introduced to oral advocacy through our first-year moot-court program, which can provide a basis for further work in our advocacy program during the second and third years of law school. Meet the Beck Center faculty. 2022-23 Teaching Quizmasters TQ and LLM TQ Candidacy Information TQ and LLM TQ Application (for prospective new TQs) Application to Repeat as TQ or LLM TQ (for returning TQs) Beck Center About David J. Beck Faculty Law School Writing Center Writing Competitions Interscholastic Moot Court Annual Beck Center Awards Contact Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.