Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > Native American Law Center (NALC) Native American Law Center (NALC) https://youtu.be/b1hmdOwx738 Degree Programs A top value law school to prepare you for an exceptional future Sustainable Energy & Resources Law (SERL) Accelerated Enrollment Options Concurrent Enrollment Options Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice TU’s College of Law is a leading research center for Native American law and history. The Native American Law Center is enhanced by Tulsa’s proximity to 35 major tribal headquarters, lying within the original borders of the Muscogee (Creek) Nation. Established as a center in 2000, the Native American Law Center builds on the concentration established in 1990. The Center’s mission is to provide resources for the study and teaching of legal issues concerning Indian tribes and other indigenous peoples worldwide. TU Law’s unmatched resources include: Specialized library collection in Indian and indigenous law Full-time professors with expertise in Indian law Gilcrease Museum (managed by TU), a nationally renowned museum of Native American art and artifacts, providing academic and research opportunities Judicial internship with Courts of the Muscogee (Creek) Nation Opportunities to work with nearby tribal governments Indian law courses Jess Green Scholarship Utsey Family Scholarship 〉Program information in the Course Bulletin Native American Law Student Association TU’s College of Law has an active Native American Law Students’ Association (NALSA), which is affiliated with the National NALSA. Members are active in community programs, meet regularly for social activities, and attend the Federal Bar Association’s annual Indian Law Conference. The FBA’s annual conference includes the annual National NALSA meeting, as well as a job fair and networking opportunities. Moot Court Competition TU NALSA students also participate in an intramural Native American Law Moot Court competition. Winners of that competition represent TU at the National Native American Law Moot Court Competition, which is sponsored by National NALSA. The TU Law intramural competition, from which the teams for the national competition are chosen, is open to all law students. Faculty TU boasts faculty with nationally recognized expertise in Indian law. Since its inception, the Center faculty have published and speak regularly in their areas of specialization, and were involved in the revision of Felix S. Cohen’s Handbook of Federal Indian Law, the premier treatise in the field. NALC Faculty: Aila Hoss Assistant Professor of Law Professor Hoss joined TU Law in summer 2020, and focuses her teaching on Indian law, legislation and property. Hoss’s research includes collecting and analyzing state laws that support or require consultation or engagement with tribes, with an eye on facilitating intergovernmental partnerships. Hoss also has extensive experience in health law, in particular with regard to the intersection of tribal and federal laws and their impact on tribal health outcomes. NALC Fellows: Gary D. Allison, Professor of Law, Emeritus Garrick Bailey, Professor of Anthropology, Emeritus Marianne Blair, Professor of Law, Emerita John Coward, Professor of Media Studies, Emeritus Janet K. Levit, Professor of Law Vicki J. Limas, Professor of Law, Emerita Marla E. Mansfield, Professor of Law, Emerita James P. Ronda, H. G. Barnard Chair in Western American History, Emeritus Judith Royster, Professor of Law, Emerita Collection Indian law is an integrated and integral part of TU’s library collections, which include the Mabee Legal Information Center (MLIC) and the McFarlin Library. Together, these libraries provide virtually any materials a student needs to write and study in the field. The MLIC features a strong collection of works related to American Indian and Indigenous Peoples law. The collection contains both primary and secondary works, including treaties, US government documents, tribal codes and tribal court decisions. The collection also features a wealth of treatises exploring both domestic and international approaches to Indian law issues. The importance of Indian law at TU is illustrated by the MLIC’s decision to include a special room devoted to Native American law, which both houses many of the MLIC’s Indian law resources and serves as a meeting and study area for students. The main Indian law collection is located in an area immediately adjacent to the Native American law room in the Indigenous Peoples Law Collection. In addition to the materials held at the MLIC, law students also have access to McFarlin, the main university library, which is a short three-minute walk from the law school. McFarlin is a major center of scholarly resources for the systematic study of Indian law, history and policy. With institutional roots stemming from the Presbyterian School for Indian Girls, The University of Tulsa honors its historic commitment to Indian scholarship by housing the Alice Robertson collection (which includes the personal papers of Samuel Worcester, the Osage Allotment Cards and the Wounded Knee Papers of Kent Frizzell). McFarlin’s collection also contains many documents related to the Indian Claims Commission, including a variety of indices and digests, the papers of Commissioner Brantley Blue and the personal papers of John T. Vance. The library also holds the J.B. Milam Library of Cherokee History, which consists of some 2,000 titles. It includes tribal and US government documents, almost all books written about the Cherokees before 1950, books printed in Cherokee and a number of important manuscripts. <!– “Strange Man” is a representation of how Crazy Horse envisioned himself before battle. Associate Dean Vicki Limas donated it to the library. –> 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT