Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Experiential Learning: Clinics Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic Menu Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic The ECDC provides transactional business law representation and policy guidance to entrepreneurs, nonprofit organizations, and community groups. Our clients are strengthening their communities through job creation, the production and preservation of affordable housing, asset building strategies for low-income individuals, and the provision of innovative and valuable goods and services for their communities. Learn More Cases and Projects Asociación de Residentes de North Lamar (ARNL) Asociación de Residentes de North Lamar (ARNL), a residents’ association in a mobile home park community in North Austin, organized themselves in 2015 to prevent property neglect, significant rent increases, and evictions from the property owners, who were know nationwide for promoting predatory practices by mobile home park owners. Clinic students touring the North Lamar Mobile Home Park with members of the newly formed Asociación de Residentes North Lamar Corporation. In 2020, during the pandemic, ARNL stabilized their community by forming a resident-run cooperative nonprofit and purchasing the mobile home park. Working collaboratively with community organizations and city staff, Clinic students represented ARNL in the real estate and lending work necessary for the purchase of the mobile home park and helped them formalize as a resident-owned cooperative nonprofit corporation through forming a nonprofit corporation, drafting bylaws, facilitating strong corporate governance. and issue spotting on matters of property management. Multicultural Refugee Coalition Multicultural Refugee Coalition (MRC) is an Austin nonprofit working to create opportunities for refugees through both training and employment via three social enterprises: Open Arms (which is IKEA’s first US-based social enterprise partner), Shared Voices, and New Leaf. ECDC students assisted MRC with preparing customer contracts, revising corporate documents, assisting with tax law compliancy, and intellectual property. November November Films November November Films is a start-up film production company run by local filmmaker Ashlee Harris. The ECDC assisted Ashlee in forming a limited liability company, preparing contracts, music licensing, and other legal needs related to filming the company’s first web series. “It has been such an incredible experience working with the Clinic. They’ve helped me launch my LLC and prepared legal documentation to protect me and my business. Not only do they help through each step of the process, but they also explain in great detail so that you can make the best decisions for you. It’s been such a big impact for me personally and professionally.” —Ashlee Harris, founder of November November Films View All Cases and Projects Experiential Learning: Clinics Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic Course Information Clinic Client Information and Application Resource Library Contact Apply Highlights Report: San Antonio vacates and demolishes homes at exponentially higher rate than other major Texas cities combined Source: Texas Public Radio | Date Posted: November 18, 2021 New Texas Affordable Housing Out of Reach For Most Low-Income Renters Source: The Texas Standard | Date Posted: September 14, 2020 ‘A rudderless ship’ Source: San Antonio Express | Date Posted: September 14, 2020 All Highlights Perspectives Ayo Adaranijo, Class of ’22 Former Student/Alumni “The clinic was an incredibly rewarding experience for me. More importantly, it allowed me to give back to communities of color in Texas in a unique way.” Read more from Ayo Adaranijo Sahil Solankee, Class of ’22 Former Student/Alumni “I enjoyed working with entrepreneurs and community members of color engaged in projects built on the common pillar of equity.” Read more from Sahil Solankee All Perspectives Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.