Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Texas Law News Faculty in the News Texas Law News Menu Faculty in the News External link Route Fifty The Prosecutors Not Planning to Enforce Post-Roe Abortion Laws Professor Randall Erben explained that only local prosecutors would be able to file charges in violation of post-Roe abortion laws, not state or officials from other counties. More of: Randall H Erben External link Forbes Book Review: Thomas O. McGarity’s ‘Demolition Agenda: How Trump Tried To Dismantle American Government, And What Biden Needs To Do To Save It’ Professor Thomas McGarity's book Demolition Agenda, which describes the effect of former President Donald Trump's hiring practices on health science, environmental science, and consumer protection agencies, is described in a review as "easy to read and thoroughly engaging." More of: Thomas O McGarity External link WABC Supreme Court makes it more difficult for prisoners to argue they had ineffective counsel Professor Stephen Vladeck is quoted on a recent Supreme Court ruling that prevents state prisoners from presenting new evidence to prove ineffective post-conviction counsel in state courts. More of: Stephen I Vladeck External link National Law Journal Should Law School Supreme Court Clinics Take Cases That Could Make “Bad” Law? Professor Lee Kovarsky is quoted in an article about the debate about the role of law school clinics in the highly competitive hunt with law firms for Supreme Court cases. More of: Lee Kovarsky External link The Hill A lesson from the Ukraine war: Secure our semiconductor supply chains Lecturer Adam Klein co-authors an opinion piece on the underestimated importance of semiconductors during wartime, and how a semiconductor supply chain shortage could put American national defense at risk. More of: Adam I Klein External link KRGV Energy law professor warns that high demand in power grid could impact maintenance Professor David Spence explains the effect of the summer heat on the power grid in the Rio Grande Valley, and how fuel prices can be impacted. More of: David B Spence External link New York Times Justice Dept. Employees Urge Administration to Grant Leave for Out-of-State Abortions Professor Stephen Vladeck speaks on potential implications of the federal government granting employees time off for abortion-related travel. More of: Stephen I Vladeck External link KVUE Corporate experts weigh in on future of health benefits amid potential Roe v. Wade overturn Professor Mike Golden explains the impact of the Texas trigger law if Roe v. Wade is overturned, as well as potential consequences on employers and their healthcare policies. More of: Michael J Golden External link Law360 Texas v. Pandemic: How The Lone Star State Litigated COVID Professor Randall Erben comments on Texas Attorney General Ken Paxton's approach to opposing federal COVID-19 health mandates by filing multiple lawsuits against the Biden administration. More of: Randall H Erben External link Financial Times Is Elon Musk too big to regulate? Professor Henry Hu is quoted and his views referenced in a story on how Elon Musk’s tweets and other behavior may relate to the basic disclosure tenet of US securities regulation, and how, broadly speaking, the SEC’s central reason for being is at stake. More of: Henry T C Hu 1 2 3 … 61 Texas Law News Alumni Magazine Archives Latest News Faculty in the News For the Media Contact Us Twitter Tweets by UTexasLaw Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.