Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE COVID-19: For updates and resources, head to UT’s Protect Texas Together site. Welcome to The University of Texas School of Law Texas Law Admissions CHOOSE TEXAS LAW Some reasons to make Texas Law your first choice: Lawdragon Campus says, "University of Texas Law School is tops for us – why? It’s at the forefront of the student-centric flip in legal education." U.S. News & World Report ranks Texas Law #1 for best starting salary-to-debt ratio of any law school. The New York Times: Texas Law "with Harvard, Yale and Stanford among the top schools that offered their graduates good value for the debt incurred while law students." Read More Advancing Justice Through the Knowledge of Law Texas Law students become rigorous analytical thinkers and world-changing professionals. They learn from scholars of national and international stature in the classroom, and are trained by brilliant and dedicated lawyers in the finest set of clinical programs in the country. Come see why we are ranked #1 for return on investment among the top 15 law schools. Top-Tier Education From the first semester to the last, your classroom experiences will transform the way you think. Learn More World Class Faculty Learn from one of the most talented and honored faculties in the nation. Learn More Career Planning Texas Law is a launching pad. Our students go on to work all over the country and around the globe. Learn More Alumni Support When you graduate, you become one of our 25,000 alumni. You become a Longhorn for life. Learn More Experiential Learning At Texas Law, our students become lawyers by representing real clients in real cases. They become advocates by arguing on their feet. They change their own lives by changing the lives of others. Read here about our commitment to learning by doing. Clinics Work with real clients on real problems in one of our 15 renowned clinics. Learn More Advocacy Learn advocacy skills and compete in national competitions. Learn More Legal Writing Learn to communicate and write like a lawyer. Learn More Pro Bono Increase access to justice and provide legal services to those in need. Learn More Life in Austin Attending Texas Law means living in Austin – the fastest-growing and most exciting city in the country. In 2010, Kiplinger’s ranked Austin as the best place in America to live for the decade to come. From South by Southwest every spring, to the Austin City Limits music festival every fall, the city is always alive with cultural happenings and creativity. Thanks to its year-round sunshine, the beautiful Hill Country setting, a world-famous live music scene, a robust economy, booming job market, and strong sense of community, Austin offers a wonderful quality of life. It’s a great place to be a student – or to do anything else. READ MORE Read More Ready to Apply? Apply Now Texas Law News Featured Stories See more News items Bintliff Receives Gallagher Distinguished Service Award from American Association of Law Libraries Barbara Bintliff, former director of the Texas Law Tarlton Law Library/Jamail Center for Legal Research, has been selected to receive the 2022 Marian Gould Gallagher Distinguished Service Award by the American Association of Law Libraries (AALL). Justice Center Honors Three Students with 2022 Graduating Student Awards Three graduating students — Alyssa Gordon, Jacqueline Morales, and Zoraima Pelaez — were recognized for their contributions to Texas Law’s public interest community. Law School Celebrates 2021-22 Alumni Award Winners with Spring Gala The Law Alumni Association presented its annual awards at a gala ceremony on April 28 honoring David Beck ’65, Karen Seymour ’86, the Hon. F. Scott McCown ’79, Carlos Zaffirini, Jr. ’06, and the late Julius Whittier ’80. Faculty in the News See more News items External link Route Fifty The Prosecutors Not Planning to Enforce Post-Roe Abortion Laws Professor Randall Erben explained that only local prosecutors would be able to file charges in violation of post-Roe abortion laws, not state or officials from other counties. More of: Randall H Erben External link Forbes Book Review: Thomas O. McGarity’s ‘Demolition Agenda: How Trump Tried To Dismantle American Government, And What Biden Needs To Do To Save It’ Professor Thomas McGarity's book Demolition Agenda, which describes the effect of former President Donald Trump's hiring practices on health science, environmental science, and consumer protection agencies, is described in a review as "easy to read and thoroughly engaging." More of: Thomas O McGarity External link WABC Supreme Court makes it more difficult for prisoners to argue they had ineffective counsel Professor Stephen Vladeck is quoted on a recent Supreme Court ruling that prevents state prisoners from presenting new evidence to prove ineffective post-conviction counsel in state courts. More of: Stephen I Vladeck External link National Law Journal Should Law School Supreme Court Clinics Take Cases That Could Make “Bad” Law? Professor Lee Kovarsky is quoted in an article about the debate about the role of law school clinics in the highly competitive hunt with law firms for Supreme Court cases. More of: Lee Kovarsky News & Announcements Robert Chesney Appointed Dean of the School of Law The University of Texas at Austin has selected Robert (Bobby) Chesney to serve as the next dean of the School of Law. He will begin his new appointment July 1, succeeding Ward Farnsworth, who will step down after 10 successful years as the school’s dean. Two Texas Law Employees Receive UT Outstanding Staff Awards Congratulations to Sylvia Hendricks and Alissa Strother for being recognized with The University of Texas at Austin’s 2022 Outstanding Staff Award. Mother’s Day 2022 Tribute to Texas Law Moms For Mother's Day 2022, we honor moms everywhere and spotlight three Texaw Law students who have mastered the art of juggling their dual roles. 2022 Beck Center Awards Recognize Outstanding Student Writers Outstanding Texas Law student writers, TQs, and moot court competitors were recognized in the annual Beck Center Awards Ceremony on April 28, 2022. Texas Law Wins Regionals, Reaches National Semifinals in Intellectual Property Moot The Texas Law team of Elizabeth Elrod (1L) and Paige Welch (2L) reached semifinals at the 2022 Giles Sutherland Rich (GSR) Moot Court national competition. Mike Golden Named Lecturer and Director of Advocacy Alumnus and longtime adjunct professor Mike Golden ’01 has been named lecturer and Director of Advocacy at Texas Law. Prof. Lori Duke Presented the Rutland Award for Excellence in Child Advocacy Professor Lori Duke ’95 was awarded the Fairy Davenport Rutland Award for Distinguished Service to Children and Families by The State Bar of Texas Child Abuse and Neglect Committee. Texas Law Reaches Finals, Awarded “Best Brief” at National Admiralty Moot Court Competition Texas Law students Zachary Badore (2L) and Anna Kate Benedict (1L) advanced to the final round and were awarded “Best Brief” at the 29th Annual Judge John R. Brown Admiralty Moot Court Competition. See more news Upcoming Events Aug 24 Mentoring Program Back to School Event 5:30pm–7:00pm Susman Godfrey Atrium Sep 10 Alumni Tailgate Mar 3 Society Games 2:00pm–4:30pm More events Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.