Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Academics and Degree Programs Dual Degrees Academics and Degree Programs Menu Dual Degrees University of Texas Combined Degree Programs The Law School offers dual degree programs with several different graduate schools’ programs at The University of Texas. These programs offer the simultaneous award of two graduate degrees in four years or less, rather than the five years it would normally require to complete two graduate degrees. These include: JD/Master of Arts in Latin American Studies (760560) JD/Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies (760570) JD/Master of Arts in Russian, East European, and Eurasian Studies (760576) JD/Master of Business Administration (760516) JD/Master of Global Policy Studies (760540) JD/Master of Public Affairs (760584) JD/Master of Science in Community and Regional Planning (760521) JD/Master of Science in Information Studies (760550) JD/Master of Science in Social Work (760580) To be admitted into any of the dual degree programs, students must apply to, and be accepted by, both schools independently. Be sure to contact each individual school for detailed admissions information. After being admitted to each program, students will need to contact both programs to make arrangements to pursue the dual degree. Under most of the dual degree programs, a student takes the first year of coursework in the Law School and the second year of coursework in the other school. The following years comprise a mixture of courses from each school. Questions about admission should be addressed to the admissions office at the appropriate school. Also please see the University’s Office of Graduate Studies website. Combined Degree Programs with PhD The Law School, in conjunction with the Graduate School, offers several programs leading to the JD and the PhD. There is a combined degree program for Law and Philosophy, and a program for Law and Government. These programs are designed to prepare students for academic careers in law and/or in the cognate disciplines. By counting law courses towards the PhD and courses in the cognate discipline towards the JD, students can save up to a year of coursework towards the combined degrees. More information about the combined degree programs with PhD is available online: JD/PhD in Philosophy Academics and Degree Programs Dual Degrees Master of Arts in Middle Eastern Studies (760512) Master of Science in Social Work (760580) Master of Science in Information Studies (760550) Master of Science in Community and Regional Planning (760521) Master of Public Affairs (760584) Master Global Policy Studies (760540) PhD in Philosophy Master of Business Administration (760516) Master of Arts in Russian, East European, and Eurasian Studies (760576) Master of Arts in Latin American Studies (760560) Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.