Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Texas Law News Associated Faculty Member: Thomas O McGarity Texas Law News Menu Thomas O McGarity in the News Thomas O McGarity’s faculty profile External link Forbes May 23, 2022 Book Review: Thomas O. McGarity’s ‘Demolition Agenda: How Trump Tried To Dismantle American Government, And What Biden Needs To Do To Save It’ Professor Thomas McGarity's book Demolition Agenda, which describes the effect of former President Donald Trump's hiring practices on health science, environmental science, and consumer protection agencies, is described in a review as "easy to read and thoroughly engaging." External link The Wire October 25, 2021 Why Science Can’t Settle Political Disputes Professors Thomas McGarity and Wendy Wagner are quoted in an article regarding the politicizing of science. More of: Wendy E Wagner External link Bloomberg Government September 24, 2021 State Bans Spur Democrats to Abortion Vote Professor Thomas McGarity is quoted in an article regarding disputes between Democrats and Republicans, especially between the new Texas abortion ruling and differences on vaccine and mask mandates. External link Bloomberg Law September 23, 2021 What’s in a Number? For OSHA Vaccination Mandate, It’s Crucial Professor Thomas McGarity is quoted in an article regarding vaccine mandates. External link Houston Chronicle October 8, 2020 Trump’s environmental shift breaks with past GOP presidents Professor Thomas McGarity was quoted in a Houston Chronicle article about how environmental protections are getting reversed under the current administration. External link USA Today May 6, 2020 Meatpacking industry hits grim milestone of 10,000 coronavirus cases linked to plants Professor Thomas McGarity was quoted in an article about how coronavirus has hit the meatpacking industry at plants located across, and how the current administration is responding to this. External link Waco Tribune-Herald May 5, 2020 Beware efforts absolving companies of COVID-19 liability Professor Thomas McGarity gave his expert perspective in an article for the Waco Tribune-Herald arguing that not enough is being done for workers’ safety and compensation during the coronavirus pandemic. External link The New York Times April 24, 2020 Missouri Pork Plant Workers Say They Can’t Cover Mouths to Cough Professor Thomas McGarity was quoted in a New York Times article regarding a lawsuit filed against a Smithfield Food plant for its failure to protect workers from coronavirus infection. Texas Law News Alumni Magazine Archives Latest News Faculty in the News For the Media Contact Us Twitter Tweets by UTexasLaw Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.