Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law Meet our student ambassadors Categories Admission Blog Admissions Alumni Announcements Arts & Sciences Arts and Sciences Athletic Training Business Career Services clerkship Commitment: Accepted Commitment: Empowered Commitment: Engaged Commitment: Self-Discovery Community Service Dean's Notes Diversity Engineering and Natural Sciences English Experiential Learning Externships Faculty Featured federal clerkship Health Sciences Law Library Law School Legal Clinic News Nursing Psychology Research Stories Student Stories Texas True Blue veterans Viewbook One of the best ways to learn about all that TU Law can offer you is to speak directly with a current student. Our student ambassadors are eager to answer your questions – about law school, their experience at TU Law and what it’s like to live here in Tulsa. They come from various parts of the country and have a variety of backgrounds and interests in law. Feel free to get in touch with them at law-ambassadors@utulsa.edu. Kristin Rodriguez, 3L Hometown: Austin, Texas Undergraduate institution: University of Oklahoma Undergraduate program: political science Law school activities: Student Ambassador, Student Bar Association, Latino Law Students Association, Law and Medicine Society Why I chose TU Law: The community here is incredible. The staff, faculty and other students at TU Law are some of the best people I have ever had the privilege to know. Every single person wants to help you succeed! Elyssa Kohler, 3L Hometown: Cheney, Kansas Undergraduate institution: Kansas State University Undergraduate programs: major in psychology, minors in leadership studies & conflict analysis and trauma studies Law school activities: Immigration Law Society, Women’s Law Caucus, Latino Law Student’s Association, OutLaws Professional experience: In summer 2020, I will be interning at the District Attorney’s Office. Why I chose TU Law: I knew I wanted to attend law school in an environment that encouraged, supported and uplifted me to grow not only in the field of law but also as a person. Being able to see this environment, mixed with a rigorous and nationally ranked bar placement and job outcomes, left me no doubt TU Law was the place I needed to be. Drew Mathews, 3L Hometown: Tulsa, Oklahoma, and San Diego, California Undergraduate institution: University of Oklahoma Undergraduate program: English Law school activities: Public Interest Board, Board of Advocates Why I chose TU Law: Tulsa is my home and I love this city! TU Law embodies what I love about this place: it’s a friendly, close-knit community that cares. Shawnee Arrington, 2L Hometown: Bonham, Texas Undergraduate institution: University of North Texas Law school activities: I am a Student Ambassador, an Executive Director on the Public Interest Board, and am currently a student in the Terry West Civil Legal Clinic. Professional experience: I worked as a summer intern at a family law and criminal defense firm in Pryor Oklahoma. Additionally, I am extending my summer internship at Beloved Adoption Law in Tulsa. Why I chose TU Law: I chose TU Law because I wanted to go to a law school where I felt welcomed and wanted. All of the professors, staff, and students at TU Law are encouraging and kind. I knew that I would be able to receive an outstanding legal education while being in an environment that supported me in every aspect of my law school journey. As soon as I secured my seat at TU Law, I knew that I made the right decision and am even more confident in my decision every day. Recently Graduated Ambassadors John Paul (JP) Ray, (JD ’21) Hometown: Broken Arrow, Oklahoma Undergraduate institution: Central Christian College of Kansas Law school activities: Student Bar Association, Black Law Student Association, Board of Advocates, American Inns of Court Professional experience: I worked as a summer clerk for the Tulsa law firm Atkinson, Haskins, Nellis; as well as an intern for the United States Attorney’s Office and Project Commutation. Why I chose TU Law: I decided to become a student at TU Law because of the school’s prestigious reputation. I wanted to receive an incredible legal education and graduate with the most opportunity to serve the members of my community. Matthew Pool (JD ’20) Hometown: Dallas, Texas Undergraduate institution: University of Missouri – Columbia Undergraduate program: political science Professional experience: I spent one-and-a-half years as a legal intern and two months as an extern at the Tulsa County Public Defender’s Office. Why I chose TU Law: I decided this was the place for me because of the school’s affordability, bar passage and job placement rates, and the wonderful staff and faculty. Nolan Deming (JD ’20) Hometown: Nokomis, Florida Undergraduate institution: American University Undergraduate program: political science Law school activities: Student Ambassador, Energy Law Journal, Student Bar Association, Criminal Law Club Professional experience: I have held internships with the Tulsa County District Attorney and the State Attorney’s Office for the 20th Judicial Circuit. My externships were with the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida and Needham & Associates. I also worked as a research assistant for Professor Luttrell. Why I chose TU Law: I decided to enroll here because of TU Law’s generous financial aid and scholarships, high bar passage rate and the friendliness and personal touch of the Admission staff. Lindsey Atchley (JD ’20) Hometown: Russellville, Arkansas Undergraduate institution: University of Central Arkansas Undergraduate programs: major in psychology, minor in political science Law school activities: Student Ambassador Professional experience: I have spent almost two years at the Tulsa County District Attorney’s Office in the SVU, Juvenile, and Misdemeanor division. Why I chose TU Law: This law school is like a home away from home. After my first time visiting, having a tour and having an interview, I knew I wanted to choose TU Law. I was welcomed and felt at ease. Plus, this law school offers so many hands-on experiences and opportunities to help the community. It just felt right. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT