logo-footer logo-full logo-stanford-university logo menu-close menu Close IconIcon with an X to denote closing. Play IconPlay icon in a circular border. Menu SLS |Executive Education Executive Education/ Overview Overview Directors’ College Venture Capital Symposium Search Executive Education Uniting Leaders in Discussion and Collaboration With an emphasis on the law’s intersection with business, policy and conflict resolution, Stanford Law School offers a set of innovative executive education programs that build on the academic excellence, cutting-edge research and multidisciplinary resources of SLS. For more than two decades, these Executive Education Programs have brought together scholars, policymakers, jurists, corporate leaders, investment bankers, board members, venture capitalists, negotiators, mediators and leaders in the legal community from across the country and internationally. SLS strives to ensure that programs are grounded in the real world. Our approach combines keynote speakers and plenary debates with panel discussions and small-group work, enabling participants to learn by doing, not just listening. Attendees share their expertise and discuss solutions to the most challenging issues facing business executives, policymakers and legal practitioners today. Voice of Experience, Community of Peers SLS Executive Education Programs feature pre-eminent faculty from Stanford Law and the broader university community, including the Stanford Graduate School of Business, as well as members of the judicial, policy-making, corporate and legal communities. These programs are designed to educate, challenge and engage a broad array of participants, from the judges who make the decisions, to the scholars who interpret them, to the mediators who solve conflicts, to the attorneys and corporate executives who implement solutions. Through their work together, participants make connections and build relationships that last beyond their time spent on campus. Leading-edge programs Directors' College The nation's premier executive education program for directors and senior executives of publicly traded firms, Director’s College addresses a broad range of issues that confront modern boards. Now in its twenty-seventh year, the program enables participants to engage with leading CEOs, directors, regulators, jurists, and scholars on a rigorous and balanced examination of topics such as the board’s role in business strategy, CEO succession, techniques for controlling legal liability, challenges posed by activist investors, boardroom dynamics, and contemporary issues including the state of the macroeconomy, sustainability, and data privacy. Learn More Stanford Institutional Investors Forum (SIIF) SIIF provides an opportunity for its members, who are many of the nation’s largest and most sophisticated institutional investors, to meet in a confidential setting, closed to the press and public, to discuss current policy issues of concern to the institutional investor community. Rock Center Program for Journalists: A Primer in Corporate Governance This program brings together a group of Media Fellows, selected from leading writers in business and finance, to attend an educational and networking event. The program focuses on corporate governance fundamentals, financial services reform, executive compensation, succession planning, corporate finance, and accounting. Read More Crown Quadrangle 559 Nathan Abbott Way Stanford, CA 94305-8610 Phone: 650.723.2465 Fax: 650.725.0253 Follow Us on Twitter Follow Us on Facebook Follow Us on YouTube Follow Us on Instagram Follow Us on LinkedIn Subscribe to our RSS feeds Secondary Navigation I am ... Future Student Current Student I am a Staff Member I am a Faculty Member Alum Employer Journalist About About SLS ABA-Required Disclosures Visiting Campus Web Accessibility Website Feedback Giving at SLS Education Degrees Only-at-SLS Courses JD Graduation Information Executive Education Research Faculty Research Robert Crown Law Library Publications Student Journals Community Student Life Events Faculty Directory Organizations Careers Legal Careers Jobs at SLS News & Media News Center Media Coverage SLS Blogs Stanford Lawyer Magazine Video Center Social Media Hub SLS Newsletters Stanford University Navigation Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Legal Navigation Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305. Back to the Top © Stanford University, Stanford, California, 94305-8610 | https://law.stanford.edu/education/executive-education/