Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home About About Texas Law About Menu At Texas Law, we prepare students for great careers at the highest levels of the legal profession and public affairs. We do it with the greatest classroom teachers in America, who train our students to think deeply about legal questions and solve sophisticated problems. And we do it with the finest and most extensive set of clinical programs anyplace, where our students help real clients with real problems under the supervision of world-class clinical instructors. All this learning takes place in a collegial culture, free from the cutthroat atmosphere sometimes associated with top-tier schools. All this is why the University of Texas is the best place in the country to be a law student. History of Texas Law The University of Texas School of Law began as The University of Texas at Austin’s Department of Law when the university was founded in 1883. The law school started with two professors and 52 students in the basement of the university’s Old Main Building. The school has since grown to more than 900 students and offers the Doctor of Jurisprudence (J.D.) and the Master of Laws (LL.M.). Read more about the history of Texas Law Departments Accounting Admissions Alumni Relations & Development Career Services Communications & Media Relations Continuing Legal Education Dean's Office Facilities Financial Aid Human Resources Law Technology Services Publications Registrar's Office Special Events Student Affairs Office Tarlton Law Library View all departments About Dean & Leadership Mission Departments History of the Law School Law School Foundation Events Building Maps Parking & Directions Contact Us Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.