Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Academics and Degree Programs Academics & Degree Programs Academics and Degree Programs Menu The Juris Doctor Program The three-year academic program at Texas Law is intense and transformative. The first year is spent on the study of foundational topics in our legal system, such as constitutional law and civil procedure, that are essential for every lawyer to master. These classes are taught by world-class faculty members. In addition to the knowledge imparted in your first-year courses, you will begin the acquisition of something more important: high-level analytical skills, or the ability to “think like a lawyer.” After your first year at Texas, you will never think about a legal problem the same way again. (...) Learn More Additional Degree Programs Texas Law is an international center of legal scholarship and education. In addition to preparing newcomers for the practice of law, we also provide advanced degrees for lawyers in the United States and from around the world who wish to acquire specialized training and a credential that certifies their expertise. Read below about our other degree programs. Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Texas Law has one of the most extensive clinical programs of any law school in the country — more than 15 different clinics, giving every student a chance to work with real clients on real problems under the supervision of gifted teachers. We also have an extensive internship program. These clinics and internships are hugely valuable bridges from the theoretical experience of the classroom to the practice of law. Our students love them. We also encourage our students to get involved in our Advocacy and Pro Bono Programs. See Experiential Learning International & Study Abroad Students can travel and study all over the world to learn about foreign legal systems, gain specialized expertise in areas of law while attending prestigious law schools. Exposure to different legal systems equips student with the skills they need to recognize and handle the complexity of both national and international legal issues. See International and Abroad Programs Programs & Centers Texas Law is home to some of the nation’s leading centers and programs in legal education. From our newest Kay Bailey Hutchison Center for Energy, Law, and Business to our robust Center for Women in Law, our students are surrounded by networks that support their varied interests. See Programs & Centers Academics and Degree Programs The Juris Doctor Program Learning Outcomes Dual & Combined Degrees Master of Laws (LL.M.) Program Experiential Learning Advocacy Clinics Internships Pro Bono Program Legal Writing International, Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Programs & Centers Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.