Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > Externships Externships https://youtu.be/R_XvRSVvlk4 EXTERNSHIPS Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff During his final semester, Brandon Keaton held an externship in the office of The Honorable Irma Ramirez, Northern District of Texas The externship program at the University of Tulsa College of Law offers 2L and 3L students the opportunity to earn academic credit while gaining practical, live client experience in the field. Students work in a legal setting under the supervision of a licensed attorney or judge while also taking a contemporaneous academic course, which provides the opportunity for reflection and additional substantive knowledge. Externship opportunities exist in a broad range of civil and criminal litigation as well as transactional law. In addition to the many placement opportunities provided by the College of Law, students can secure their own placement, subject to approval, or work directly with the director to create an experience tailored to the student’s individual preferences. Advantages for students Externships provide the opportunity to move from thinking like a lawyer in the classroom to thinking like a lawyer in a practice setting. Obtain significant experience and knowledge in a specialized area of law through practical experience augmented by classroom learning. Enhance research, writing and analytical skills. Develop professional skills, including client service, case responsibility and management, application of ethical and legal principles in practice and networking with legal professionals. Acquire lawyering skills by working with clients and solving real problems. Earn the ability to present themselves to future employers as “practice ready.” Opportunities are available locally and throughout the country. Full-semester out-of-state placements are available during the summers and/or the last semester of the 3L year. Contact Lauren Donald Assistant Dean for Experiential Learning and Director of Externships 918-631-2421 lauren-donald@utulsa.edu Types of Placements Available Federal, state and tribal courts Law firms Government agencies Non-profit organizations Corporate legal departments and other companies Exposure to Different Areas of Law Bankruptcy Immigration Law Business/Corporate/Banking Intellectual Property Criminal Law and Procedure International Law Domestic Violence Judiciary Energy Law Litigation Entertainment Law Native American Law Environmental Law Public Interest/Social Justice Estate Planning Public Policy Foundations/Trusts Real Estate Transactions Family Law/Child Advocacy Social Security Law Government Affairs Tax Law Health Law Trial Advocacy Human Rights 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT