0 Skip to Content Current Page: Home About Our Work Our Work Projects Research & Policy Convenings Model Legislation Resources Law Enforcement Health Technology Our Scholars Publications Publications Reports News Justice Happens Here Newsletter Get Involved Events Donate Careers Connect search Open Menu Close Menu Current Page: Home About Our Work Our Work Projects Research & Policy Convenings Model Legislation Resources Law Enforcement Health Technology Our Scholars Publications Publications Reports News Justice Happens Here Newsletter Get Involved Events Donate Careers Connect search Open Menu Close Menu Current Page: Home About Folder: Our Work Back Our Work Projects Research & Policy Convenings Model Legislation Folder: Resources Back Law Enforcement Health Technology Our Scholars Folder: Publications Back Publications Reports News Justice Happens Here Newsletter Folder: Get Involved Back Events Donate Careers Connect search Where serious science has a serious impact Now is the time for us to make new conscious and informed choices concerning the definition of public safety, community vitality, and the right of every citizen to have a voice in this process. We envision a future where science and scholarship provide the foundation for justice systems transformation, where people and communities feel and experience equity, respect, and trust in justice system interactions. The Justice Collaboratory (The JC) is a membership-based social science research center at Yale Law School that brings together an interdisciplinary group of scholars and researchers at Yale and beyond to cooperatively work toward a theory-driven, evidence-informed justice system. Our work is centered around the criminal legal system, but is more broadly concerned with the goal of building vibrant communities. We believe that in the long-term addressing issues of social order requires community engagement and centeredness. Learn more about our work Meet Our Scholars Comprised of members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a MacArthur “Genius”, Pulitzer and Audacious Prize winners, and a member of the National Academy of Sciences, our interdisciplinary network brings together some of the nation’s most renowned scholars dedicated to transforming historically underserved communities to ones of vitality, opportunity, and justice for all citizens. Their research addresses issues at the intersection of race, community vitality, and criminal legal reform. We view collaboration as fundamental to our work. Learn more about our areas of expertise and our team Featured Justice Collaboratory Projects Featured Elevating Trust and Legitimacy for Prosecutors Project Yale Law School’s Justice Collaboratory has partnered with the Association of Prosecuting Attorneys and LaGratta Consulting to develop the Elevating Trust and Legitimacy for Prosecutors Project. Through a multi-phase site selection process, project partners chose the Salt Lake County District Attorney’s Office, Saint Paul City Attorney’s Office and Columbus City Attorney’s Office as the project pilot sites to engage in a year-long collaborative assessment, planning, and implementation process of procedural justice practices. Read More → Online Trust & Safety Course Sponsored by the Justice Collaboratory’s Social Media Governance Initiative, this course on Trust, Safety, and Governance helps prepare participants to be effective practitioners of governance and leaders within Trust & Safety teams. The three-day intensive workshop provides state of the art training on ways to use digital technologies to create and maintain prosocial environments. Read More → Community Driven Governance Online: Past, Present, and Future The Social Media Governance Initiative is hosting a one day workshop entitled “Community Driven Governance Online: Past, Present, and Future”. The forum will discuss approaches to online governance which put communities at the center of governance structures, providing community members tools, training, and systems to build communities and self-govern. Read More → The Needs of Affected Communities Yale's Walton Hale Hamilton Professor of Law and Founding Director of The Justice Collaboratory Tracey Meares discusses communities' need to be protected from violence at the hands of both community members and armed emergency responders. Watch more videos JC in the News Read more news Featured Apr 28, 2022 Black woman named high school valedictorian 38 years after snub Apr 28, 2022 The Washington Post | Tracey Meares was honored as a Springfield High School valedictorian on April 16, 38 years after the she was denied the title. Apr 28, 2022 Apr 25, 2022 From Retribution to ‘Healing’: Changing How We Help Crime Survivors Apr 25, 2022 The Crime Report | “Black-led survivors’ organizations provide an alternative blueprint for safety and justice.” Miriam Gohara writes about how we can do more to support crime victims. Apr 25, 2022 Apr 23, 2022 What does 'community policing' even mean? Outdated buzzwords can't fix policing problem. Apr 23, 2022 USA Today | “What exactly is community policing? Ask 10 police officers to define it and you will get 10 different answers.” Caroline Nobo and Tom Tyler discuss the issue with community policing. Apr 23, 2022 Twitter JusticeCollaboratory As Senator Chris Murphy leads bi-partisan talks on gun legislation, it's worth watching this discussion on his book… https://t.co/ygRDi8Gj8j Jun 1, 2022, 11:52 AM JusticeCollaboratory JC Member and @YaleLawSch professor Marisol Orihuela and Quinnipiac law professor Sarah Russell are fighting to kee… https://t.co/oaSrvSvleB May 31, 2022, 2:57 PM JusticeCollaboratory A must-read from JC member Jason Stanley: "The distortion of truth in the name of promoting an alternate reality is… https://t.co/hVaTQ590K8 May 31, 2022, 12:11 PM “When people are watching what authorities are doing with respect to how they hold offenders accountable and how they do or do not address victim's complaints, that has implications for these other people who aren't actually involved. It has huge implications for how they perceive the legitimacy of authorities. It also has implications for their own desire to voluntarily comply with rules or not.” — Tracey Meares, co-founder of The Justice Collaboratory and Walton Hale Professor of Law, Yale Law School Donate to the JC About Us Home About Our Scholars Our Work Work of the JC Projects Research & Policy Convenings Model Legislation Resources Law Enforcement Health Technology Publications Publications Reports JC in the News Justice Happens Here Newsletter Get Involved Events Donate Careers Connect Yale Law School, 127 Wall Street, New Haven, CT 06511 | 203.432.4992 © Yale Law School law.yale.edu | Contact Webmaster | Web Accessibility | Privacy Policy | Emergency Info