Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > Legal Clinics > Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Terry West Civil Legal Clinic LEGAL CLINICS Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Benefactors Contact Legal Clinics The Terry West Civil Legal Clinic is supported by the Sarkeys Foundation. It addresses access to justice for marginalized communities in Tulsa, with a particular focus on the intersection of legal needs within these communities. While serving individual clients, students also engage more broadly with the justice system and structural access to justice barriers. The clinic explores different mechanisms of advocacy, including court observations, fact-finding and reporting, impact litigation, and legislative advocacy. Students may also create know your rights materials and presentations. The seminar and clinic work teach lawyering skills and explore the ethical, practical, theoretical, and strategic issues around legal advocacy and the lived experiences of individuals from marginalized communities. Students gain lawyering skills, including interviewing and counseling clients, fostering a lawyer-client relationship that empowers the client, developing factual and legal arguments, drafting legal briefs, and oral argument and advocacy. They also explore issues of professional responsibility, the role of the justice system in the lives of marginalized communities, their role as lawyers within this system, and ways to advocate both inside and outside of the courtroom. Discrimination and Implicit Bias in the Courtroom Two advanced clinic students, Shawnee Arrington and William Woolston, created this report for the Access to Justice (ATJ) Commission in support of its proposed Anti-Discrimination Resolution. The report highlights instances of discrimination and implicit bias in Oklahoma’s courts and the need for implicit bias training for court and judicial staff. Shawnee Arrington presented the report at the April 22, 2022, ATJ Commission meeting. Read the full report Changing the Game: Eliminating Inequities in Oklahoma’s Rental Law Growing out of their response to HB 1564, which would have exacerbated Oklahoma’s already high eviction rates, spring 2021 Terry West Civil Legal Clinic students highlighted the inequities in the current Landlord Tenant Act. Their report describes how the legislation creates a rental landscape characterized by high eviction rates, a lack of safe and affordable housing stock, reliance on eviction as a profit-making mechanism and exploitation of the law by out-of-state landlords, illustrating how these factors harm tenants, local landlords and all Oklahomans. Read the full report here: TU Changing the Game – Rental Law, June 2, 2021 Leveling the Playing Field in Tulsa’s Eviction Docket During fall 2020, students in the Terry West Civil Legal Clinic continued to explore avenues of advocacy around Tulsa’s high eviction rate. Building on the clinic’s earlier report describing access to justice barriers on Tulsa’s eviction docket, students focused on the issue of access to counsel in eviction proceedings. Their report, Leveling the Playing Field, shows that representation is essential in order to advance justice, uphold due process and ensure people are able to take advantage of relief measures linked to the COVID-19 crisis. It also points to the cost savings from access to counsel programs and highlights the toll that eviction takes not just on those who are displaced, but also on neighborhoods, communities and public resources. Read the full report here: Leveling the Playing Field, Jan. 13, 2021 Advancing Housing Justice in Tulsa Students in the spring 2020 semester explored their role as lawyers in developing an effective advocacy strategy to address Tulsa’s high eviction rate, which ranks 11th in the country. Students observed eviction proceedings and decided to conduct an in-depth data analysis of the eviction docket to quantify the injustices they were observing. Combining their observations and data analysis, the clinic released a report highlighting procedural irregularities, access to justice barriers, power imbalances between landlords and tenants, and legal ethics concerns at the eviction docket. The report has informed broader advocacy efforts around eviction practices, courtroom processes, and legislative reforms to improve access to justice for marginalized communities. Read the full report here: Advancing Housing Justice in Tulsa: An Examination of the Fed Docket, June 8, 2020 Know Your Rights Videos and Info Created by Students in the Spring 2021 Terry West Civil Legal Clinic: Caitlin Barrett, Austin Canfield, Sherrod Donnelly, Genny Hickman, Rachel Johnson, Edward Park, Jacob Weideman & Austin Witt Unlawful and Abusive Entry by Landlord Post Eviction Rights Landlord Repairs Created by Students in the Fall 2020 Terry West Civil Legal Clinic: Teiya Batien, Lauren Beatty, Quinn Fields, Christopher Stout & Kaitlyn Sweatt Fair Housing – Know Your Rights Created by Students in the Spring 2020 Terry West Civil Legal Clinic: Joel Auringer, Sage Martin, Josh McCann, Alex Myers & Vic Wiener Employment Rights in Oklahoma Disability Benefits Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP) Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) Tenant Rights, Obligations, and the Eviction Process Cost Docket Emancipation 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT