Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law Prepared. Practiced. Proven. College of Law 3120 East 4th Place Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104 918-631-2406 Law WebsiteEmail Law Admissions The University of Tulsa College of Law delivers a superb doctrinal and experiential legal education to talented and engaged law students. Here, you can pursue your professional ambitions at a cost that is one of the most affordable among private law schools and competitive with top-tier public law schools. Download a Printable PDF President's Welcome TU Law is fully committed to you. As you explore your options for a comprehensive legal education, we are glad you have discovered The University of Tulsa College of Law. Our goal is to provide you with a rock-solid foundation that allows you to draw upon your past and navigate your future in the legal world with knowledge and confidence. Tuition, AID & Programming $26,880/year for in-state, out-of-state and international students Fall, spring and summer start options Reduced-schedule option for those who desire to work and attend law school Approximately 99% of students in TU Law’s most recent incoming class earned a scholarship, and 100% of upperclass students retained their scholarships. Incoming Class Profile (2021) Majors represented: 54 Undergraduate schools represented: 77 Average age: 26 Median UGPA: 3.38 Median LSAT: 154 Women: 49.5%, men: 49.5%, gender-nonconforming: 1% Underrepresented: 32% Nontraditional (age 26+): 36% First-generation college: 23% 22 states + 3 countries Enrolled 1Ls: 140 (spring, summer & fall 2021) 1L acceptance rate: 57% Accolades Bar passage within two years of graduation: 93.1% Class of 2020 employment: 83.7% (full-time, long-term, bar license-required or JD advantage positions within 10 months of graduation) Employment Honor Roll (preLaw 2020) U.S. News & World Report ranks TU Law #25 – Employment Rate, post 10 months #56 – Average Law School Debt #87 – Bar Passage TU Law provides outstanding academic programs, committed faculty and exceptional clinical and externship opportunities. During your time as a JD student, you will also receive strong bar-preparation and professional development support. Recent graduates have secured positions with federal and state governments, public interest organizations, selective law firms and major corporations, including in the financial and energy sectors. Exceptional Legal Education At The University of Tulsa College of Law you will master a challenging curriculum while supported by faculty who take a personal interest in your success – during your studies and after you graduate. You will be able to shape your legal career according to your goals, enjoy a high quality of life in Tulsa and make enduring personal and professional relationships. Student Services Scholarships Mabee Legal Information Center Professional Development Engaged Learning My professors have done an incredible job getting me ready for my career. I was exposed to lawyers from Tulsa and members of the state and federal judiciary. Those experiences inspired me and led me to find mentors throughout the Tulsa legal community. Matthew Cecconi, 3L Experiential learning that serves the community TU Law will provide you with hands-on experience in a variety of legal settings. Taking part in experiential learning will deepen your substantive legal knowledge, strengthen your lawyering skills and build your professional identity. Immigrant Rights Projects Tulsa Resources Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Buck Franklin Legal Clinic Building legal minds Working in the clinics teaches us how to zealously advocate for people who genuinely need legal aid. Access to a legal remedy should not depend on a person’s economic status, and TU’s clinics help ensure future attorneys are empowered to deliver on that principle. Abigail Bauer, 3L Experiential learning that propels legal careers TU College of Law students have the opportunity to publish in three highly respected law journals to enhance their academic experience. Students work directly with editors and distinguished contributors nationwide. Tulsa Law Review Energy Law Journal Environment, Energy, and Resources Learning that propels I chose TU Law because of its small size and the accessibility of the professors. I had numerous professors and administrators who took a genuine interest in my success, providing academic, professional and emotional support as I pursued my dreams. Vic Wiener, JD ’20 Community, civility and dialogue are the core values of TU Law. We do our utmost to embrace, promote and protect them – in our classrooms, in our corridors and in all our dealings with each other. They are the foundation of our intellectually vibrant and thriving law school. We invite you to join us. Robust externships offer world-class experiences TU Law’s externships enable 2L and 3L students to join attorneys and judges in real-world practice for academic credit. Students and their supervisors collaborate to establish opportunities for meaningful work and valuable feedback. Externships Recent Placements Different Areas of Law world-class I plan to focus on the representation of Native nations and peoples with a focus on litigation. An externship provided me with a window into the federal judicial process as well as real-world experience in legal research, analysis and writing skills, which are certain to be applicable to a career in federal Indian law. Julie Combs, JD ’21 About The University of Tulsa Founded in 1894, TU is a private doctoral degree-granting, accredited, coeducational institution on a 230-acre urban campus. We are located two miles east of downtown Tulsa, where you will find vibrant dining, shopping and entertainment districts. Amenities 67,000-square-foot Collins Fitness Center 77,000-square-foot Lorton Performance Center Historic McFarlin Library (2 million volumes and titles) 30,000-seat Chapman Stadium 8,355-seat Donald W. Reynolds Center TU-managed Gilcrease Museum Henry Zarrow Center for Art & Education in the Tulsa Arts District 17 Division 1 athletic programs in the American Athletic Conference Recognition Top private-ranked university in Oklahoma (U.S. News & World Report) Top 200 Best College Values of 2019 (Kiplinger Personal Finance) Included in Princeton Review’s 2021 edition of The Best 386 Colleges Included in 2019 edition of Forbes’ America’s Top Colleges Additional Amenities & Services 10 on-campus dining options at the Student Union, across from the College of Law On-campus Alexander Health Center (clinic) On-campus university apartments A diverse array of on-campus ministries and places of worship True Blue Neighbors: Campus-wide community service organization Convenient parking 24-hour campus security Esports & Gaming Lounge 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT