Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > Legal Clinics > Immigrant Rights Project Immigrant Rights Project LEGAL CLINICS Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Benefactors Contact Legal Clinics The Immigrant Rights Project (IRP) is a one-semester, six-credit clinical education program in which law students represent non-citizens in immigration matters. Clients include persons seeking asylum in the United States as a result of persecution or fear of persecution in their home countries, as well as non-citizen victims of domestic violence and other crimes, unaccompanied non-citizen minors, or other non-citizens subject to removal and immigration detention. Representation may occur in adversarial administrative hearings before immigration judges; in non-adversarial agency interviews; in appeals to the Board of Immigration Appeals; or, as necessary, in appeals to the federal courts. This clinic is offered in both the fall and spring semesters. The IRP provides a combination of practical legal experience, theory, intensive training, and supervision not available in most traditional law school courses or legal jobs. The clinic also provides opportunities to engage in action, collaboration, reflection, and service that are immensely rewarding and frequently inspiring. It is also a cross-cultural experience. Students learn a great deal about their client’s country and face the challenges and rewards of overcoming the barriers to understanding posed by differences of language and culture. Structure of the Clinic Client Work Client work is central to a student’s clinic experience. Students in the Immigrant Rights Project assume primary responsibility for client representation. Students work together on cases in teams of two. The tasks that students may perform in a case include client interviewing; fact investigation; preparing clients’ applications for relief; developing corroborating evidence; preparing the testimony of witnesses, including experts; and representing a client at an immigration interview or a removal hearing in Immigration Court. Students typically spend a minimum of 18-20 hours a week working on their clients’ cases. Case Team Meetings Each student team meets regularly with clinic Professor McCormick for an in-depth discussion of the casework. These meetings are used to help students recognize, analyze and resolve the multitude of strategic, tactical, ethical and interpersonal issues that arise in representing clients. Clinic students and faculty, together with clients and witnesses, also participate in “moots” to prepare for each immigration interview or hearing. Clinic Seminar The IRP seminar meets once a week, for two hours. Classes are used for a variety of purposes. Early in the semester, classes are used to survey the substantive law involved in clinic cases. Other classes are devoted to teaching essential lawyering skills that students will use in their casework; many of these classes involve role-playing exercises or workshops based on students’ actual cases. Class time is also used for “case rounds,” in which students share and learn from each other’s experiences. Guest speakers, including immigration judges and domestic violence experts, may be invited to selected classes. Enrollment in the Clinic Enrollment is open to any second or third-year JD student in good academic standing. Enrollment in the clinic is limited to eight students per semester. To be eligible for enrollment, a student must have taken or be concurrently enrolled in Professional Responsibility.  Representation of a client in an asylum or other immigration matter can be enormously challenging and time-consuming. These cases involve many hours of hard work and great responsibility. For students who have the time and can make the commitment, participation in the Immigrant Rights Project is a tremendously rewarding experience. Students in the clinic have a unique opportunity to perform a valuable public service, learn a new and developing area of law, grapple with challenging ethical dilemmas and experience the satisfaction that comes with knowing their hard work and effective advocacy has given their client a fair opportunity to win relief, and, in many cases, may have helped to save their client’s life. The Clinical Education Program at The University of Tulsa College of Law is grateful for the generous financial support of the Oklahoma Bar Foundation. In the Media Oklahoma Policy Institute Blog — Professor McCormick talks about next steps for children at Fort Sill   Public Radio Tulsa — Professor McCormick presents at 2014 Oklahoma Summer Policy Institute on immigration reform   Tulsa World — TU law students may work with undocumented youth at Fort Sill KJRH Channel 2 — IRP to assist children at Fort News TU Law students assist detained families at Karnes County Residential Center TU Law Immigrant Rights Project students spent Spring Break 2015 assisting families detained at Karnes County Residential Center near San Antonio, Texas. Read complete story Marlina Rogers (JD ’15) shares her experience at Karnes County Residential Center Rogers, a former Immigrant Rights Project student is featured in this Raices video seeking volunteers to help immigrant women and children detained in south Texas detention centers. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT