Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Student Affairs Graduation Student Affairs Menu Graduation Sunflower Ceremony The Sunflower Ceremony is the Law School’s annual graduation. Students are encouraged to attend the University’s Commencement and the Law School’s Sunflower Ceremony, both held each spring. Summer and fall graduates are strongly encouraged to attend the Sunflower Ceremony along with spring graduates. Diplomas Diplomas are issued and mailed by The University Registrar’s Office, not the Law School. Changes of address or name should be reported to the Registrar’s Office in the Main Building (MAI). For more information please visit Texas One Stop. Diplomas will not be released to students with bars on their records at the time of graduation. Note that the diploma will state the official graduation date of the semester in which all requirements for the degree are completed and the student is certified by the Assistant Dean for Student Affairs as being eligible for graduation. Diplomas cannot be backdated to the last semester of actual attendance in law school. Check your candidacy/apply to graduate Degree Requirements Student Affairs Academic Services Academic Calendars Non-Law Students Forms Student Services Academic Advising Health and Wellness Bar Preparation Student Life The Society Program Student Organizations Student Journals Mock Trial and Moot Court Graduation Sunflower Ceremony RSVP for Graduation History of the Sunflower Ceremony Degree Requirements/General Graduation Info Graduation Honors Chancellors Equity and Inclusion Contact Us Upcoming Events Jun 2 Demystifying OCI-Bidding to Interviewing 12:00pm–1:00pm Virtual Aug 12 Thriving in Law School 3:30pm–6:00pm Sheffield-Massey Room Aug 24 Mentoring Program Back to School Event 5:30pm–7:00pm Susman Godfrey Atrium Sep 9 Change It Up! 2022 12:30pm Eidman Courtroom Sep 22 Texas Law Marketplace 10:00am–3:00pm Susman Godfrey Atrium More events Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.