Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > Student Services > Professional Development > Graduate Employment Outcomes Graduate Employment Outcomes https://youtu.be/JWoYLEiuByc PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Graduate Employment Outcomes Mentoring Program Employers Reciprocity Policy Job Postings Meet the Staff TU Law students receive a high level of individualized service, support and resources from the PDO, such as access to our electronic job database; resume and cover letter review; interview preparation; on-campus interviews; career counseling including job types, practice areas and alternative uses of a JD; job search strategy; mentoring assistance and networking guidance. Our graduates are prominent in a wide variety of employment settings including law firms, government, academia, business, public service, and the judiciary. Please view the ABA and NALP Report links below for complete graduate employment information. NOTE: Information on employment outcomes for the Class of 2020 may not reflect a particular law school’s typical results in this area. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, bar admission exams were canceled or delayed in many jurisdictions, thus making it more challenging for graduates to secure employment by the annual Graduate Employment Status Date of March 15. Please reference the 3 years of employment outcome data posted on the ABA Required Disclosures webpage of each ABA-Approved Law School or at abarequireddisclosures.org American Bar Association Employment Summary Reports Class of 2021 ABA Employment Summary Class of 2020 ABA Employment Summary Class of 2019 ABA Employment Summary Class of 2018 ABA Employment Summary Class of 2017 ABA Employment Summary Class of 2016 ABA Employment Summary Class of 2015 ABA Employment Summary Class of 2014 ABA Employment Summary Class of 2013 ABA Employment Summary Class of 2012 ABA Employment Summary National Association for Law Placement Summary Reports NALP Class of 2020 Summary Report NALP Class of 2019 Summary Report NALP Class of 2018 Summary Report NALP Class of 2017 Summary Report NALP Class of 2016 Summary Report NALP Class of 2015 Summary Report NALP Class of 2014 Summary Report NALP Class of 2013 Summary Report NALP Class of 2012 Summary Report TU College of Law Professional Development Office Contact us today at 918-631-2430 or tulaw-pdo@utulsa.edu 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT