× By continuing to use this site, you agree to the use of cookies in accordance with our privacy policy. Toggle navigation Information for you: Skip to main content Prospective Students Admitted Students COVID-19 Preparedness For the Media International Apply Now Contact Admissions Give Now Search for: SEARCH Toggle navigation Main Menu Academics Academics J.D. Residential JDinteractive: Online J.D. Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) in American Law Centers & Institutes Experiential Courses, Clinics, & Externships Advocacy Training Academic Journals Course Descriptions Academic & Bar Support Registrar Events & Initiatives Calendars & Schedules Academic Handbook Admissions Admissions J.D. Admissions JDinteractive: Online J.D. Program Transfer & Visiting Students Online J.D./M.B.A. Program LL.M. Admissions & Program Information S.J.D. Admissions & Program Information Two-Year J.D. Program for Foreign Law Graduates Diversity & Inclusion Office of International Programs Visit Syracuse University College of Law Admitted Students Veterans & Servicemembers Fast Facts ABA Required Disclosures Contact Admissions Financial Aid Financial Aid Types of Aid Cost of Attendance How to Apply for Financial Aid Financial Aid Policies & Resources Loan Repayment Financial Awareness for Law Students Contact Us Student Affairs Student Affairs Academic Success Accommodations & Accessibility Diversity & Inclusion Mentoring in Action Student Bar Association Student Organizations Forms Our Staff Student Service Request Form Exam Information Deans & Faculty Deans & Faculty Deans Faculty, Emeriti, and Instructors Career Services Career Services Statistics & ABA Employment Summaries Class of 2022 Graduate Employment Survey Students Employers Alumni Reciprocity Career Services Staff Law Library Law Library About the Library Collections Student Services Faculty Services Alumni & Visitor Services Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Alumni Alumni & Friends Dean’s Dispatch Newsletter Syracuse Law Magazine Law Alumni Weekend Alumni Events Syracuse Law Honors Awards College of Law Alumni of Color Awards Alumni Leadership Giving Back & Volunteering Class Notes ‘Cuse Community: The Alumni Directory Contact Us Celebrating Black History Month 2022 Celebrating Hispanic Heritage Month Make a gift Home Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Cost of Attendance Listed below are estimated costs associated with attending Syracuse University College of Law in the 2022-2023 academic year. Tuition and fees are directly billed; personal expenses such as books, housing, and meals vary from student to student. To project your own expenses for the academic year, we encourage you to use our Budget Calculator. J.D. Tuition $57,290 J.D. Fees $2,192 J.D. Books/Supplies $2,035 Housing (Rent + Utilities for nine months) $11,136 Meals (Grocery expenses for nine months) $4,220 Transportation $1,630 Personal Allowance $2,244 Avg. Federal Loan Fees $1,283 TOTAL $82,030 Printer-Friendly Resources Budget Worksheets are available to download for our programs: J.D. Residential Program 21-22 Full-Time J.D. Student Cost of Attendance [PDF] JDInteractive Program 21-22 Part Time JDInteractive Student Cost of Attendance [PDF] Cost of Attendance Adjustment Inquiries Students are able to submit documentation/proof of purchase to increase their annual budget for the following relevant educational expenses not traditionally included in the Cost of Attendance: Purchase of a Personal Laptop Computer Syracuse University College of Law students are required to own a personal laptop computer and to keep it in good working order. Students often use laptops in the classroom, to take exams, and to use Syracuse University's wireless network. You are not required to purchase a new computer if it meets our minimum specifications. However, if you do purchase a new computer and want to utilize federal student loan eligibility to help pay for it, you may submit the Cost of Attendance Adjustment Request for Laptop Purchase [PDF] to LawFinAid@syr.edu with receipts (proof of purchase) to document the cost you incurred to purchase a laptop computer for your legal studies. The maximum budget adjustment for a computer purchase is $1,700. Students may only request a computer budget adjustment once during their studies at Syracuse. Health Insurance Enrollment Syracuse University requires all full-time students to carry some form of ACA-compliant health insurance. If you need to purchase health insurance (either through the university-sponsored plan or on your own), the cost of the policy may be included in your cost of attendance so that you may utilize federal student loan eligibility to help pay for your health insurance. To request a budget adjustment, you may submit the Cost of Attendance Adjustment Request for Student Health Insurance [PDF] to LawFinAid@syr.edu. If you have questions about the Syracuse University Health Insurance Policy and Plan, please contact the Student Health Insurance Office at healthinsurance@syr.edu, or call 315.443.9019. Extenuating Circumstances We understand that every student's financial situation is unique. The Financial Aid office will work with you if you have educational expenses that are different from the standard amounts listed in the cost of attendance. Please contact us at LawFinAid@syr.edu or call 315.443.1962 for help on calculating a reasonable budget and keeping your student loan debt manageable. Types of Aid Cost of Attendance How to Apply for Financial Aid Financial Aid Policies & Resources Loan Repayment Financial Awareness for Law Students Contact Us Contact Us Welcome to... Syracuse University College of Law Dineen Hall 950 Irving Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244-6070 Map Facebook youtube twitter linkedin instagram News & Events Request a Transcript Event Scheduling and Room Request Fast Facts SU Home SU Bookstore SU Athletics Accessible Syracuse General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Information For: Prospective Students Admitted Students Current Students Alumni & Friends Media ©2022 All rights reserved.