Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > Degree Programs > Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Certificate (SERL) Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Certificate (SERL) https://youtu.be/YKUi9fzNRuY?list=PLPfyKp474fm2LYyuyYuJ7aIcCs4UFMHjp Degree Programs A top value law school to prepare you for an exceptional future Sustainable Energy & Resources Law (SERL) Accelerated Enrollment Options Concurrent Enrollment Options Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Schedule a Visit Apply The University of Tulsa College of Law is a leader in energy, environmental, and natural resources legal education through the SERL program. Students participate in a rigorous curriculum focusing on current international, national, state, and local issues taught by leading scholars in energy, environmental, and resources law and policy. Degree Programs Juris Doctor, SERL Concentration (JD) The Sustainable Energy and Resources Law (SERL) program at TU Law offers an intensive curriculum focusing on energy, environmental, and natural resource law and policy. Legal and policy choices have far-reaching public health and economic consequences in today’s world. While each area has independent significance and importance, SERL’s primary focus is the nexus between energy and natural resources on one hand and the environment on the other. Accordingly, SERL is especially concerned with promoting laws and policies that encourage energy reliability, sustainable supplies of natural resources, and a healthy environment. Accomplished by An advanced curriculum in energy, environmental, and resources law SERL policy reviews The Energy Law Journal ABA Section on Environment, Energy and Resources Year in Review SERL scholarship and research The SERL Board of Visitors Student-related activities Public policy conferences and symposia Community outreach The SERL certificate will not be available to students who matriculate in the College of Law after fall 2019. Students who matriculate in fall 2019 must satisfy the requirements for the SERL certificate by the end of the spring 2022 term. Bulletin/Catalog Information View detailed academic information about the program in our bulletin/catalog. Program Objectives To offer comprehensive training in the fields of energy, environmental, and natural resources law To produce nationally and internationally recognized scholarship and research that contributes to the public policy debate To facilitate communication among the many individuals, companies, organizations, and public bodies interested in energy, environmental, and natural resources, with the expectation that such communication will lead to more enlightened national and international laws and policies SERL Partners Energy Bar Association – Energy Law Journal Professional Board of Editors American Bar Association Section on Environment, Energy & Resources (ABA-SEER) National Energy Policy Institute (NEPI) Resources, Energy, and Environmental Law Society (REELS) SERL Board of Visitors Board of Visitors The Sustainable Energy and Resource Law Board of Visitors is comprised of energy, environmental, and natural resources professionals in the midst of prestigious careers. Energy Law (Oil & Gas, Electric Power, Renewable Energy) Private Practice Jason Aamodt (JD ’96), Partner, Indian & Environmental Law Group, PLLC Pamela Anderson (JD ’85), Shareholder, Hall Estill Brendan Cook (JD ’81), Partner, Baker & McKenzie LLP, Houston, Texas Jim Roth, Director and Chair of Clean Energy Practice Group,  Phillips, Murrah, PC Thomas Schroedter (JD ’79), Shareholder, Hall Estill John Williams (JD ’92), Partner, Connor & Winters LLP Government Practice Laurence Yadon, General Counsel of a major federal power agency Corporate Practice Angie Beehler (JD ’94), Former Senior Director, Energy Regulation/Legislation;  Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Curtis Craig (JD ’80), Vice President, General Counsel, Corporate Secretary, Explorer Pipeline Company Curtis Frasier (JD ’82), Former Executive Vice President, General Counsel; Shell Oil Company in the US, Royal Dutch Shell Upstream Business in Americas Henry Hood, Former General Counsel & Senior Vice President – Land, Chesapeake Energy Kirk Moore (JD ’81), Associate General Counsel, Noble Energy, Inc. Stuart Solomon, President, Chief Operating Officer; AEP-Public Service Company of Oklahoma Environmental Law Private Practice David Page (JD ’81), Of Counsel, Leach & Sulllivan, LLP Non-Profit Advocacy Kelly Hunter Foster (JD ’96), Senior Counsel, WaterKeeper Alliance; Former head of Environmental Division, Oklahoma Attorney General Office Natural Resources (Water, Public Lands) Private Practice Kevin Patrick (JD ’78), Founding Shareholder; WaterLaw: Patrick, Miller, Kropf Government Practice Charles Babst, Jr. (JD ’91), Attorney-Advisor with a major federal natural resources management agency Faculty Warigia Bowman Associate Professor of Law, SERL Director, Energy Law Journal Aila Hoss Assistant Professor of Law Melissa J. Luttrell Assistant Professor of Law Journals SERL provides editorial and staff support to the student editorial boards of two preeminent professional law journals in the energy/environment industry, the Energy Law Journal and the Year in Review. Students who work on these publications have the rare opportunity to enhance their academic experience and publish articles and reports of crucial interest to practitioners and students. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT