Prospective J.D. Students Employers Current J.D. Students LL.M. & MLS Programs Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Media Legal Assistance Apply Give Admissions Financial Aid Paths to Success Academics Fort Worth / Dallas Careers & The Aggie Network Texas A&M University School of Law Texas A&M University School of Law Quick Links Apply Now Hire Aggie Lawyers Legal Assistance Howdy Portal Intranet Library News Events About Us Support Aggie Law Prospective J.D. Students Admissions Admissions Home: Why Texas A&M Apply Now J.D. Admission Programs J.D. Class Profile Success: It's in Our Core Career Success Why Texas Connect With Us Meet Your Classmates Diversity & Inclusion GRE Tuition Cost ABA Required Disclosures Admitted Students FAQ Take a Virtual Tour of Texas A&M Law & Dallas-Fort Worth Texas A&M Law now accepts the GRE. Learn more. Financial Aid Financial Aid Home Tuition & Cost of Attendance Scholarships and Tuition Waivers Loans Work Study Veterans Benefits FAFSA International Students Financial Literacy Resources Maintaining Eligibility Scholarships and Tuition Waivers All applicants to Texas A&M School of Law are considered for tuition waivers at the time they are admitted to our program. There's no separate application to complete. What does your path to success look like? Paths to Success Paths to Success Litigation / Dispute Resolution Business / Transactional Regulatory Guide to Practice Areas Study Law at Texas A&M An ideal location, flexible scheduling, and an innovative academic program make Texas A&M University School of Law an excellent place for your legal studies. What does your path to success look like? Academics Academics Home Our Innovative J.D. Program Guide to Practice Areas Experiential Education Programs & Centers Concentrations Courses Law Journals Advocacy Competitions Our Part-Time Program Faculty Library Interaction Beyond the Classroom Our accessible and student-friendly faculty have considerable academic and professional experience and take pride in teaching and mentoring students. What does your path to success look like? Fort Worth / Dallas Discover Fort Worth The Fort Worth / Dallas Legal Community Texas, Where the Jobs Are Discover Fort Worth Choosing a law school means choosing your home for the next few years, and you won’t find a better place to learn, live and work than Fort Worth. What does your path to success look like? Careers & The Aggie Network Welcome to Career Services The Aggie Network Personal Counseling & Career Development Seminars Online Job Bank - REVS On-Campus Interviews Off-Campus Job Fairs Judicial Clerkships Networking Career Services Handbook Contact Career Services Employment Statistics Join Texas A&M Law and put the strength of the Aggie Network behind you. What does your path to success look like? Current J.D. Students LL.M. & MLS Programs Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Media Employers Can we help you find something? Admissions Apply Now Admission Process J.D. Admissions Program (LSAT or GRE) Aggie Direct Alternative Admission Program Process Incoming Transfer Students Visiting J.D. Students Class Profile Success: It's At Our Core Career Success Why Texas Connect With Us Coming to a Location Near You Events Info Session Meet Your Classmates GRE Tuition Cost ABA Required Disclosures FAQ Financial Aid Tuition Tuition and Fees Refund Policy Scholarships and Tuition Waivers Loans Work Study Veterans Benefits FAFSA International Students Financial Literacy Resources Maintaining Eligibility Paths to Success Business / Transactional Law Litigation / Dispute Resolution Regulatory Law Guide to Practice Areas Dispute Resolution Criminal Law and Procedure Energy Law Water Law Oil and Gas Law Environmental Law Workplace Law Commercial Law Civil Litigation General Practice Health Law Real Estate Law Business Law Estate Planning Family Law IP and Technology Law Immigration Law Agriculture Law Academics Our J.D. Program Guide to Practice Areas Programs & Centers Equal Justice Program Center for Law and Intellectual Property (CLIP) Need to Know Workshops Speaker Series Intellectual Property and Global Development CLIP Publications CLIP Press Releases CLIP In the Media CLIP Op-Eds Student Blogs - Italy CLIP events 2017 IP Aggie Forum Faculty Copyright 101 GEWFW2019 Entrepreneurship Law Clinic Externship Programs Contracts Laboratory Legal Analysis, Research and Writing Program Professionalism & Leadership Program Global Programs News Events Global Programs Blog Trip to Angkor Student Blogs Cambodia Ghana Jersey Cambodia - Katie Stallcup Jersey - Royal Court Ghana - Taylor Wood Israel and Scotland Field Studies Field Studies Field Studies and Courses Israel 2018 Blog Israeli Innovation Sorek and BIRD Foundation Givat Haviva Old City of Jerusalem Scotland 2018 Blog Donnottar Castle International Comparative Law Glen Garioch Distillery Transboundary Hydrocarbons Energy, Environmental, and Natural Resource Systems Law Program EENRSLP Courses EENRSLP News EENRSLP Events Natural Resources Law Reports & Publications US Groundwater Laws Eminent Domain Law Texas-Mexico Groundwater Flooding Liability Report Coastal Communities Report Groundwater Desalination and Water Recycling Report Flood Management in Texas Planning for the Future ESG Program in Law and Social Science Program in Real Estate and Community Development Law Aggie Dispute Resolution Program Events News Faculty Activities Courses Dispute Resolution Field Studies AggieDR in the Media Consortium Criminal Law, Justice & Policy Program In the Media News Criminal Law Pop-Up Classes Criminal Law Society Book Club Film Workplace Law Program Borderlands Law Concentrations Business Law Criminal Law, Justice & Policy Dispute Resolution Domestic Public Policy Energy Law Environmental Law Estate Planning Family Law Intellectual Property International Public Policy Tax Law Water Law Workplace Law Courses Course Descriptions Law Journals Advocacy Competitions Faculty Library Fort Worth / Dallas The Fort Worth / Dallas Legal Community Texas, Where the Jobs Are Careers and the Aggie Network The Aggie Network Personal Counseling & Career Development Seminars Judicial Clerkships Online Job Bank - REVS On-Campus Interviews Off-Campus Job Fairs Networking Career Services Handbook Contact Career Services Employment Statistics Student Wellness Public Interest Law Fellowship Academic Support Prospective J.D. Students/ Paths to Success/ Guide to Practice Areas/ Workplace Law Workplace Law As a workplace lawyer, you must navigate the host of laws that regulate the employment relationship under statutes and the common law. Workplace lawyers tend to represent either employees or employers in workplace disputes. However, the representation lines may become blurred for some workplace lawyers who represent smaller businesses and their employees. Most employees and their employers have questions about how to comply with the law when the working relationship starts to fray. Workplace attorneys commonly work on many of the following issues: Wage and hour claims Sexual harassment policies Employee handbooks Safety violations Race discrimination Employee benefits Union organizing campaigns Employee privacy matters Accommodating disabilities Core Courses If you want to focus on workplace law, you will need to take these courses. Employment Law Employment Discrimination Labor Law Recommended Courses Here are some courses you should also consider. You should choose courses that interest you or that will further your career objectives. ADR in the Workplace Seminar Employment Mediation Clinic Labor Negotiations Workshop Related Courses You should also consider taking one or more of the following courses that may help you in the practice of workplace law. ADR Survey: Negotiation, Mediation & Arbitration Negotiation Theory & Practice Practicum Mediation Clinic Immigration Law Administrative Law Civil Rights Litigation Civil Evidence Workshop Civil Motion Workshop Advanced Torts Federal Income Taxation Bankruptcy Remedies Entertainment Law LARW III: How the Deals Get Done LARW III: Contract Drafting LARW III: Litigation Drafting LARW III: Appellate Drafting The Business Negotiator Agency & Partnership Family Law & Benefits Clinic Sports Law Trial Advocacy Practicum Externships Students interested in workplace law have participated in prior externships with The Law Offices of Zoe Courtney, American Airlines, Littler Mendelson P.C., and The Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. To learn about current workplace law externship opportunities, contact Externship Program Director Cecily Becker at cbecker@law.tamu.edu. Internships Summer internships have historically been possible through a program sponsored by the Dallas Bar Association’s Labor and Employment Law Section. In the spring, the DBA’s Labor and Employment Section has interviewed and selected interns for summer positions with: the United States Department of Labor (Dallas), the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Dallas), or the National Labor Relations Board (Fort Worth). Students who are enrolled or have taken employment/labor related courses or have relevant business experience in human resources or labor relations have been encouraged to apply. Over the last several years, this program has resulted in the placement of several students at each of the three agencies over the summer. A few of these students have obtained subsequent employment with these agencies after graduation. To learn about current workplace law internship opportunities, contact the Assistant Dean of the Office of Career Services, Arturo Errisuriz, at aerrisuriz@law.tamu.edu. Mentoring Programs The Dallas Association of Young Lawyers, through its Young Employment and Labor Lawyers Committee, is developing a program to pair up attorneys in the Dallas-Fort Worth area who practice labor and employment law with students at the law school interested in labor and employment law as a career. Student Advocacy Teams Students interested in workplace law have previously participated on one of our advocacy teams sent to the Wagner Labor Law Moot Court competition, the ABA Labor and Employment Student Mock Trial competition, and various Dispute Resolution competitions where workplace issues were addressed. To learn about current workplace law advocacy team opportunities, contact Advocacy Director Jennifer Ellis at jellis@law.tamu.edu. Faculty The primary contact for questions about Workplace Law is Professor Michael Z. Green. Professor Green has served as Secretary of the American Bar Association’s Labor and Employment Section, an extraordinary indicator and recognition of his background and expertise in workplace law. Below is a list of additional faculty members who teach workplace law-related courses or are interested in the area. You may contact them as well if you have questions in their areas of interest. Angela Morrison Meg Penrose Apply Give Academic Calendar Events Diversity & Inclusion Library Bookstore Legal Assistance TAMU Law News Texas A&M University School of Law 1515 Commerce Street Fort Worth, Texas 76102-6509 Local: 817.212.4000 Toll Free: 800.733.9529 Emergency Information Texas A&M University Web Accessibility Site Policies About Us Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Privacy Open Records Contact Us © 2021 All Rights Reserved Stay Connected