Skip Navigation Alumni Faculty Staff Students COVID-19 Studying Law at Yale Our Faculty Centers & Workshops Student Life Admissions & Financial Aid Admissions & Financial Aid JD Admissions Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Nondiscrimination, Title IX, and Clery Act Statements Virtual Tour YLS Today YLS Today News Events In The Press Videos Reports & Publications Social Media Media Inquiries Submit an Event Search Search Menu Studying Law at Yale Areas of Interest Degree Programs Clinical and Experiential Learning Courses Academic Calendar & Resources Alumni & Student Profiles Law Library The Tsai Leadership Program Our Faculty Faculty Lecturers & Affiliates Faculty Activities & Scholarship Student Life Our School & Location Student Services Career Development Health & Wellness Student News & Opinion Programs and Opportunities Student Journals & Organizations Discrimination and Harassment Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Policies, Resources, and Reporting Search Search Studying Law at Yale back Studying Law at Yale Areas of Interest Degree Programs Clinical and Experiential Learning Courses Academic Calendar & Resources Alumni & Student Profiles Law Library The Tsai Leadership Program Our Faculty back Our Faculty Faculty Lecturers & Affiliates Faculty Activities & Scholarship Centers & Workshops Student Life back Student Life Our School & Location Student Services Career Development Health & Wellness Student News & Opinion Programs and Opportunities Student Journals & Organizations Discrimination and Harassment Commencement Diversity & Inclusion Title IX Policies, Resources, and Reporting Admissions & Financial Aid back Admissions & Financial Aid JD Admissions Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Nondiscrimination, Title IX, and Clery Act Statements Virtual Tour YLS Today back YLS Today News Events In The Press Videos Reports & Publications Social Media Media Inquiries Submit an Event Alumni Faculty Staff Students COVID-19 Menu The Arthur Liman Center for Public Interest Law About Arthur Liman ’57 Programs Liman Center Publications Fellows' Publications Yale Law School Fellowship Undergraduate Summer Fellowship News Faculty and Staff Get Involved COVID-19 Response Home Centers & Workshops The Arthur Liman Center for Public Interest Law The Arthur Liman Center for Public Interest Law The Liman Center promotes access to justice and the fair treatment of individuals and groups seeking to use the legal system. Through research projects, teaching, fellowships, and colloquia, the Liman Center supports efforts to bring about a more just legal system. “The process of criminal justice will never fulfill either its promise or its obligation until the entire judicial system is purged of racism. . . .” Attica: The Official Report of the New York State Special Commission on Attica at xix (1972) Arthur Liman, General Counsel Explore what’s new at the Liman Center: Featured Featured News In The Press Featured News In The Press Monday, May 02, 2022 News Justice Sonia Sotomayor ’79 in Conversation at Liman/LSO Colloquium Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor ’79 joined Yale Law School alumni from the Liman Center and the Law School’s clinical program in a conversation to open the 25th Annual Liman Public Interest Colloquium. Thursday, May 26, 2022 News Liman Center and Coalition Lessen the Harm of Connecticut’s Incarceration Lien Law Monday, May 02, 2022 News Justice Sonia Sotomayor ’79 in Conversation at Liman/LSO Colloquium Tuesday, May 03, 2022 News Liman Students Document Impact of Connecticut’s Incarceration Lien Load More View All Featured Thursday, May 26, 2022 State Rep. Patrick Callahan, Liman Center Director Jenny Carroll, Ryanne Bamieh ’23, and Mila Reed-Guevara ’23 are shown at the Connecticut State Capitol for a meeting to discuss the repeal of Connecticut’s incarceration lien, under which the state can claim money from people who have served time in jail and prison. The Liman Center and partners helped pass a law that places limits on the lien. News Liman Center and Coalition Lessen the Harm of Connecticut’s Incarceration Lien Law Tuesday, May 3, 2022 A still from a new short film documenting the experiences of those impacted by Connecticut’s incarceration lien law. News Liman Students Document Impact of Connecticut’s Incarceration Lien Monday, May 2, 2022 Justice Sonia Sotomayor ’79 joined a panel of alumni moderated by Professor Judith Resnik to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the Liman Center and more than 50 years of the Jerome N. Frank Legal Services Organization and Yale Law School’s clinical program. News Justice Sonia Sotomayor ’79 in Conversation at Liman/LSO Colloquium Monday, April 25, 2022 Kshithij Shrinath ’21, photographed in New York, is a Meselson-Liman Fellow at the Bronx Defenders. News Q&A: Liman Fellow Kshithij Shrinath ’21 on Immigrant Detention Friday, April 22, 2022 News Medicaid and Access to Health Care During and After Incarceration Tuesday, April 5, 2022 News Liman Center Welcomes New Director Show More View All Liman News Wednesday, April 27, 2022 In The Press It Is Time to Repeal Connecticut’s Incarceration Lien —A Commentary by Jenny Carroll, Mila Reed Guevara ’23, and Ryanne Bamieh ’23 The Connecticut Mirror Jenny Carroll is the Director of the Arthur Liman Center for Public Interest Law and a Visiting Professor of Law at Yale Law School. Mila Reed Guevara and Ryanne Bamieh are members of the class of 2023 at Yale Law School. Sunday, March 27, 2022 In The Press Connecticut Residents, Lawmakers Testify on Criminal Justice Bills Yale Daily News Liman Center Director Jenny Carroll explains the harms of Connecticut’s incarceration lien and Arthur Liman Professor of Law Judith Resnik comments on a measure to limit the use of solitary confinement. Monday, March 14, 2022 In The Press Arizona’s Privatized Prison Health Care Has Been Failing for Years. A New Court Case Could Change That PBS News Hour Arthur Liman Professor of Law Judith Resnik is quoted about Arizona’s privatized prison health care system. Sunday, February 20, 2022 In The Press State Legislators Support Scrapping Prison-stay Fees for Formerly Incarcerated Individuals Yale Daily News Liman Center research supports state officials and community advocates calling for the repeal of Connecticut’s incarceration lien. Thursday, February 17, 2022 In The Press Bridgeport, New Haven Legislators Want End To Billing of Former Inmates CT Post Liman Center Student Director Camila Reed-Guevara ’23 presents research at a news conference to propose repealing Connecticut’s “pay-to-stay” law, which requires people who have served time in prison to turn over money from lawsuit settlements or inheritances to the state. Tuesday, February 15, 2022 In The Press 27 Years in Solitary Confinement, Then Another Plea for Help in Texas The New York Times A 2020 study co-authored by the Arthur Liman Center for Public Interest Law is cited in an article about solitary confinement. Show More View All In The Press About Arthur Liman ’57 His practice exemplified the ideal of public service through law. Programs Includes the Liman Project, the Liman Public Interest Workshop, and the Liman Public Interest Colloquium. Yale Law School Fellowship For Yale Law School graduates working in public interest law in the United States. Undergraduate Summer Fellowship For students at Barnard, Brown, Bryn Mawr, Harvard, Princeton, Spelman, Stanford, and Yale. Publications Research, reports from Liman fellows, and our newsletter. News Stories from the Liman Center and in the press. Contact About Us Virtual Tour Give Now Vimeo Linkedin Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube 127 Wall Street New Haven, CT 06511 203.432.4992 News Events Media Contacts Offices & Services Law Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Yale Directory Yale University Homepage © Yale Law School Contact Webmaster Web Accessibility Privacy Policy Emergency Info This website is supported by the Oscar M. Ruebhausen Fund at Yale Law School