Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > About the College of Law > Office of the Dean Office of the Dean https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-U6-Pm0a214 ABOUT ABA Required Disclosures Academic Policies Board of Advocates Diversity Facilities Mission Office of the Dean Administration and Staff Distinguished Lecture Series History Notable Alumni Schedule a Visit Apply Dear Oren R. Griffin Welcome to TU Law Welcome to The University of Tulsa College of Law. We’re turning 100 in 2023, and over the past century we have developed into one of the most dynamic, student-centered law schools in the country. TU Law is relatively small, but we’re exponentially mighty. Every student who entrusts their future to us receives a rigorous legal education by professors who combine practical experience and deep, research-driven expertise. One of the things I most admire about our faculty is their unwavering dedication to each student’s individual learning and career aspirations. With a low student-to-faculty ratio and professors who know their students and are concerned about their professional development, legal education at TU Law is truly based on commitment and dedication to our students. At TU Law we place a high priority on preparing of our graduates for outstanding careers in a wide variety of fields that have a positive impact of the justice system and the community at large. We like to say that our graduates are Prepared. Practiced. Proven. This is not an empty slogan. It embodies a firm commitment: To ensure that each student who graduates with a Juris Doctor from TU Law is fully prepared to practice in their chosen area of the law. For the last 100 years, we’ve proven the truth of this effort by providing strong learning opportunities for students in the classroom and through our experiential learning programs. Many people who attend law school do so out of a deep-seated desire to extend justice to all corners of society. At TU Law, the beating heart of that ambition resides in our thriving Clinical Education Program. From immigration to housing, community-building to addressing Oklahoma’s incarceration crisis, our clinics prepares students for the practice of law through a combination of real-world experience, intensive supervision and dynamic seminars. Another benefit of attending TU Law is “value.” Although we are part of a private university, our tuition fees are frequently lower than many in-state public institutions. And whether you’re from Oklahoma, Texas, New York, Canada or beyond, you will pay the same as everyone else. This is one of the main reasons PreLaw Magazine ranks us among the top Best Value law schools in the country, year after year. One more point before I close: Tulsa — our city, our home. Since moving here not long ago from halfway across the country, I now know what makes this community a special place. Affordable, welcoming, vibrant, diverse and with a dynamic legal community – Tulsa is a great place both to learn as well as to shape rewarding careers. I invite you to get in touch with our dedicated Admissions team and come for a personalized tour to discover how TU Law can empower you to become the kind of legal professional you envision. Sincerely, Dean Oren R. Griffin 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT