Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame The Law School Menu Search Search About Academics Admissions Faculty & Scholarship Student Life Professional Life News & Events Contact Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Educating a Different Kind of Lawyer Established in 1869, Notre Dame Law School is the oldest Catholic law school in the United States. The Law School’s approach to legal education is informed and inspired by faith. Students are trained to view the law as a vocation in service to others, to explore the moral and ethical dimensions of the law, and to discover their unique roles in furthering the cause of justice. Unmatched global reach Our Global Lawyering Initiative connects students and faculty with learning and research opportunities worldwide. Champions for religious liberty The new Religious Liberty Initiative will prepare lawyers to defend freedom of conscience around the world. Preparing the next generation ND Law's renowned faculty take pride in mentoring students, during law school and after they enter the profession. Class of 2020 Celebration Notre Dame Law School will welcome the Class of 2020 back to campus on Memorial Day Weekend. Click on the button below to see more details about the weekend’s events. Learn more about Programs of Study Business Law Study the constantly changing legal puzzles that face businesses, with a special emphasis on transactional practice. Criminal Law Prepare to uphold the rule of law by learning the rules lawyers must follow to prosecute and defend criminal charges. Energy & Environmental Law Develop expertise in the law of natural resource use and protection — including land and water, fossil fuels, wildlife management, climate change, and more. Global Law Confront the increasingly transnational nature of today's legal problems through a deeper study of international and comparative law. Intellectual Property & Technology Law Learn core IP doctrines — patents, copyrights, trademarks, and unfair competition — and study fields such as design, cyberlaw, and antitrust. Law, Ethics & Public Policy Understand and analyze the standards by which we can gauge the value of laws. This program focuses on critical moral evaluation. Public Law Learn about the area of law that regulates the structure of government and its relations with individuals and foreign nations. Real Estate Law Build a foundation to address various real estate issues in legal practice, including development, finance, land use, and transactions. Support ND Law Kresge Law Library ABA Required Disclosures A Global Approach With placements all over the country and the opportunity to study internationally, ND Law gives students the opportunity to expand their own horizons. Study Internationally Nation-wide Careers Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Admissions Apply Now Schedule a Visit Request Information Check Application Status News & Highlights May 19, 2022 ND Law Professor Paolo Carozza named to Meta Oversight Board Paolo G. Carozza, professor of law and concurrent professor of political science at the University of Notre Dame, has been added as a member of the Oversight Board for Meta,... May 16, 2022 ND Law creates new exchange program with Strathmore Law School in Kenya Notre Dame Law School has added another exchange program opportunity for students and faculty — its first in Africa — with a recent agreement with Strathmore Law School in Nairobi,... May 11, 2022 Notre Dame officials call for release of Cardinal Zen, SDB, Catholic bishop emeritus of Hong Kong “We are deeply saddened to learn that Cardinal Joseph Zen, SDB, the Catholic bishop emeritus of Hong Kong, has been arrested by Chinese national security authorities for allegedly violating Hong... More News Home About Academics Admissions Faculty & Scholarship Student Life Professional Life News & Events Contact Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame The Law School Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Contact Accessibility Information Annual Clery & Fire Safety Reports Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Today@NDLS