Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Judicial Clerkships Judicial Clerkships Menu Judicial Clerkship Program A judicial clerkship offers law school graduates the unique opportunity to work directly with a judge, trial or appellate, in a state or federal court. These one-to-two-year positions can be one of most rewarding jobs in a legal career. A clerkship allows graduates a chance to be a part of our judiciary, and ideally develop a mentor in a judge. It is a prestigious position and often serves as a springboard to permanent positions with law firms or in the public sector. Note that a judicial clerkship is different from a judicial internship, which provides opportunity to gain exposure to the judicial process and the inner workings of a court while you are still in law school. Texas Law’s Judicial Clerkship Program helps all interested second- and third-year law students, recent graduates, and alumni apply for judicial clerkships. The Program provides you with one-on-one advice for perfecting applications and intelligently choosing judges to whom those applications will be sent. As part of the Program, we provide information about application deadlines and procedures, which often differ from court to court and judge to judge; manage the receipt and submission of all letters of recommendation; will review your applications materials; and help you prepare for your interviews with the courts. We conduct informational meetings and programs throughout the year to best inform you about courts and the application process. We encourage you to get started today if you are interested in obtaining a judicial clerkship. Judicial Clerkships Why Clerk? Types of Clerkships General Qualifications Getting Started Career Services Contact Us Upcoming Events There are no upcoming events. More events Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.