Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law Student Organizations Engagement Public Interest Board and community well-being Empowerment Become an LGBTQ+ OutLaw > Student Organizations https://youtu.be/Yyw3JGsOSGQ?list=PLPfyKp474fm2LYyuyYuJ7aIcCs4UFMHjp STUDENT SERVICES Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Student Organizations Public Interest/Pro Bono Housing, Dining and Parking Admitted Students Student Bar Association The Student Bar Association (SBA) is the governing body of the students at The University of Tulsa College of Law. The SBA endeavors to further legal education; to promote interaction and professionalism among students, faculty and the administration; and to advocate for the concerns of students. In addition, the SBA coordinates student activities and organizations and is charged with appropriating funds for student activities and student organizations. Black Law Student Association The Black Law Student Association (BLSA) strives to create an atmosphere where unity is fostered and a chance where we can actively address common issues and provide solutions and tools to help each other succeed. Our main activities include hosting visiting speakers (e.g., Ricco Wright and Judge Holmes), as well as social events. Board of Advocates The Board of Advocates is the only Moot Court/Mock Trial organization at The University of Tulsa College of Law, providing opportunities for professional development of the oral and written skills required of the legal profession. The Board organizes and hosts multiple intra-school competitions each semester and coordinates and sponsors a number of regional and national competition teams made up of students chosen to represent TU Law. The Board works closely with judges, practicing attorneys, faculty and alumni who judge the competitions and coach the regional and national teams. In addition, the Board organizes the annual Chili Fest competition, which brings together attorneys and students in a networking event full of great food and fun activities, as well as an annual awards banquet to recognize the hardworking students who compete and the lawyers and judges in the legal community that make the Board’s competitions possible. Criminal Law Club The Criminal Law Club (CLC) focuses on expanding criminal law education and exposure to the justice system. Our main activities are hosting educational lunch-and-learns, getting involved in community projects and organizing workshops. Federalist Society The Federalist Society is a nationwide organization promoting open debate on legal issues, fostering balanced and open debate about the fundamental principles of individual freedom, limited government and judicial restraint. The TU chapter arranges debates, panels, speakers, movie nights and mixers, as well as at least one large keynote debate each year. Immigration Law Society The Immigration Law Society (immLAW) is a public-interest student organization that seeks to serve, educate and empower Tulsa’s immigrant community while providing TU students with opportunities to develop transferable legal skills that apply to all areas of law. immLAW allows students to gain real-life experience in the application of the law while making a real difference in people’s lives. Each month, immLAW hosts a lunch meeting that usually includes a guest speaker talking about potential careers in immigration and theoretical and public policy topics related to the field. Each year, immLAW works with RAICES to offer students the opportunity to travel to Karnes City, Texas, at the end of the spring semester to work pro bono on asylum cases with immigrant detainees. Latino Law Students Association The Latino Law Students Association (LLSA) is dedicated to promoting a healthy and fulfilling environment and to represent the diverse needs of Latino/a law students. Our main activities include mentoring middle school students at San Miguel Students; preparing home-cooked dinners; concerts and Latino/ethnic celebrations. Some special events we get involved with are TU’s Diversity Day, Spanish for Lawyers and volunteering at Murdock Villa. Law Fam Law Fam is tailored to support students who have to balance law school and family life. Our definition of family is a group of persons connected by blood, affinity or law; a group consisting of parents and children; or a group of persons in a relationship. The variety of members enables a reliable network to reach out to for advice, company or during a crisis. Law Fam plans events specifically focus on providing opportunities to mingle with peers while sharing and spending time with one’s family, such as BBQs, a trip to the zoo, bake sales and a chili feast. Additionally, Law Fam works to address members’ needs and brainstorm solutions. Law and Medicine Society Interested in the interconnected fields of law and medicine? Join us to learn more about the opportunities in health law, hear interesting speakers and get involved in volunteer opportunities. Law Student Division American Bar Association  Membership in the Law Student Division (LSD) of the American Bar Association (ABA) is open to all law students. LSD members receive nine issues annually of Student Lawyer, a publication that keeps readers abreast of what law students in the U.S. are doing. Each year, two student members receive an expense-paid trip to the American Bar Association national convention to attend workshops, seminars and meetings with other student leaders and lawyers from across the country. Delegates also represent the College of Law at regional ABA/LSD meetings. Low-cost group life and health insurance are available and ABA-LSD members also receive lower rates on certain books and study guides. Membership dues are $20.00 per year and include a subscription to the ABA Journal. Legal fraternities Phi Alpha Delta (PAD) is an organization of law students working together to achieve academic excellence while maintaining a balanced social and professional life. Our main activities include monthly lunch meetings, educational panels, bar review, networking events, fundraising events and philanthropy events. Phi Delta Phi promotes academic excellence. To become a member, a student must be in the top third of his or her class, be an officer of an organization recognized by the College of Law or be involved with a law journal. Phi Delta Phi was named International Inn of the Year by the society’s national office in 1995. The chapter competed against 179 chapters from law schools in North and South America and was judged based on academic excellence, individual member achievements and group-sponsored activities. Native American Law Student Association The Native American Law Student Association (NALSA) is dedicated to creating a forum for all students interested in Indian law. Members participate in the National Native American Moot Court Competition in February and travel to Albuquerque for the Federal Indian Bar Conference in April. The group is also active in researching issues that impact the American Indian populations. OutLaws OutLaws is the LGBTQ+ law student organization at TU Law. We aim to educate our peers and the law school at large on LGBTQ+ legal and social issues as well as to provide an open, inclusive and safe space for students to express themselves. We regularly conduct information sessions for students and host guest speakers to address current LGBTQ+ issues. We occasionally host community events that address LGBTQ+ issues. One of our recent special events was hosting a Name Change Day for the transgender community, where we helped with completing court documents for individuals wishing to change their names in accordance with their gender identity. PAW Law Paw Law is The College of Law’s Student Animal Legal Defense Fund (SALDF) chapter. We are a law student group that is affiliated with the Animal Legal Defense Fund and share its mission to protect the lives and advance the interests of animals through the legal system. We work with organizations in Tulsa to promote animal welfare and support institutions such as the SPCA, Domestic Violence Intervention Services, Inc. and Pause for Paws. If you love animals, this is the place for you. Additionally, we host great events that are a lot of fun. Public Interest Board The Public Interest Board (PIB) is a student-run organization at The University of Tulsa College of Law aimed at serving the community and helping students develop a lasting commitment to public service. Our goal is to assist students in developing relationships with the local community through volunteer service and education opportunities. PIB’s activities include facilitating donation drives, helping with particular cases, partnering with local organizations for volunteer service and fundraising for our student summer stipend program. We host volunteer opportunities once a month, and we encourage our members to engage other students in events they have already gotten involved with. Our special events are generally focused on fundraising for the summer stipend. We host a Student Talent Show in the fall and a Multicultural Expo in the spring. Resources, Energy and Environmental Law Society The Resources, Energy, and Environmental Law Society (REELS) is a student organization for law students with interests in energy, resource and environmental law. Its main focus is on learning the current legal implications related to energy and the environment. REELS’ mission is to promote the interests of conservation of energy and natural resources, sustainability of the environment and to explore the many ways the practice of law can help to achieve these goals. REELS also provides fellowship among students and faculty, represents student needs and wants concerning energy and environmental issues and provides a forum for the presentation of ideas to benefit the university community. The organization’s main activities include arranging speakers, volunteering, networking, competing and having fun. Sports & Entertainment Law Society The Sports & Entertainment Law Society (SELS) seeks to provide students who have an interest in sports or entertainment law with a mechanism to become involved in and acquire a greater knowledge of the issues in these fields. We also seek to provide our members with an insight into various avenues available to them as practicing attorneys, whether that is representation of entertainment and sports figures and entities, practicing in a law firm with an entertainment or sports division, or work within a major sporting league. Women’s Law Caucus The Women’s Law Caucus focuses on three areas: 1) recruitment and orientation — empowering women in their pursuit of a legal degree and career; 2) curriculum and materials — sharing the current atmosphere of women in the field with members and law students; and 3) placement — bringing guest speakers, mentors, employers and community service partners to campus that allow members to prepare to enter the legal field while serving and supporting the women and community around them. Activities include monthly meetings with guest speakers on topics such as professional growth and issues women face in the legal field; community service partnerships, such as donation drives to DVIS and the Public Defender’s Office, and facilitating the Women in Recovery Book Club; and attending conferences relevant to female law students and attorneys. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT