Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > Student Services > Bar Support Bar Support https://youtu.be/Yyw3JGsOSGQ?list=PLPfyKp474fm2LYyuyYuJ7aIcCs4UFMHjp STUDENT SERVICES Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Student Organizations Public Interest/Pro Bono Housing, Dining and Parking Admitted Students Several state bar associations, including Oklahoma’s, require students to register as a law student at the beginning of their study of law. In most of the states, registration deadlines are early in the first year of law study. Students should contact the bar associations in the states in which they are considering practicing for more information and specific requirements. Information regarding early registration as a law student in Oklahoma is available through the Oklahoma Board of Bar Examiners. Bar examination application deadlines are normally set several months before the test date. Consequently, students who did not register as a law student during their first year in law school should apply at least four (4) to six (6) months prior to graduation to take the bar examination in the state in which they intend to practice. Students who are considering participating in the Legal Internship Program in Oklahoma should register with the Board of Bar Examiners of the Oklahoma Bar Association, even if they have not definitively decided to take the Oklahoma Bar Examination. In addition to the bar examination, most states, including Oklahoma, require students to pass the Multistate Professional Responsibility Examination (MPRE). This exam is offered three (3) times each year and can be taken prior to graduation. Students should consider taking the MPRE after they complete the Professional Responsibility course. The National Conference of Bar Examiners and the ABA Section on Legal Education has produced a Comprehensive Guide to Bar Admission Requirements for students who are planning to register for the bar exam in any state. Bar Support Program The University of Tulsa College of Law believes its obligation to students extends beyond the JD degree. We recognize the final hurdle that must be completed before one can become a practicing lawyer is passing a bar examination. Although most law programs give students the substantive knowledge they need to be a lawyer, they do not teach them how to prepare for the bar examination. The bar examination, like other comprehensive and concentrated licensing exams, requires endurance, discipline, and training. To enhance the traditional program of law study, TU College of Law offers a bar support program to its students. As part of the 3L professionalism requirement and a prerequisite for graduation, students will take the one credit hour “Strategies & Skills for Bar & Practice” (“Bar Skills”) course in their final semester of law school. A full-time faculty member of the College of Law teaches this course utilizing study materials furnished by BARBRI. The course specifically addresses the mechanics of taking a bar examination and provides a substantive review of three (3) subject areas tested on the bar exam. Although this assistance does not replace the bar review program every student should take after graduation, it gives students a head start and provides knowledge of what it takes to succeed on the bar exam. In the Bar Skills course, students learn and begin to master the skills necessary for success on the bar exam and in the practice of law. Students focus on discrete legal reasoning skills, including: Legal reading and comprehension skills Issue identification Separating relevant facts from distractor facts based upon the call of the question Clearly articulating a specific rule of law Critically analyzing and applying relevant law to relevant facts Drawing and clearly stating the correct conclusion Techniques for avoiding the common pitfalls in answering multiple choice questions Essay-writing techniques, including effective organization The course features a highly participative, learn-by-doing approach. For each skill, the professor will demonstrate the skill, and students have an opportunity to practice and master that skill. Class activities include both written and oral assignments. In addition to skills-based learning, each class will include elements of the most tested rules of law on three (3) of the MBE subject areas. Summer post-graduation Following graduation, students should take a commercial bar prep course. BARBRI and Kaplan provide thorough 7-week courses that prepare students for each component of the exam. Because some students do not have the resources to pay for such a course, a limited number of scholarships are available. These scholarships are awarded by TU College of Law through an application process and are only available to students taking the Oklahoma Bar exam. Bar exam assistance The MLIC Bar Exam Help section provides information concerning the Oklahoma state bar exam, as well as information regarding bar exams in other states. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT