Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Equity and Inclusion Equity and Inclusion Menu Equity and Inclusion at Texas Law At Texas Law, we are committed to fostering an academic and professional community that values diversity, multiculturalism, inclusion, and equity. On this page, we aim to provide our students, faculty, and staff with extensive resources related to diversity, equity, access and inclusion. Resources Contact Us Your gift helps support current students through our diversity, equity, access, and inclusion initiatives. Make a Gift A statement from Texas Law Dear Texas Law Community, At the University of Texas School of Law, we take pride in providing a supportive and welcoming environment for students from every background. We are the flagship public law school for one of the most diverse states in the nation, yet with that comes an acute awareness of our role in history. In the middle of the 20th century, we had to be sued to desegregate. The plaintiff in the lawsuit, Heman Sweatt, is now a hero in our school’s history, and he along with others paved the way for law students from all backgrounds to pursue a legal education. For this and many other reasons, the fight against injustice is a deeply felt part of our mission. Over our doors are etched the words: “that they may truly and impartially administer justice.” Our school views every instance of racial violence and discrimination as a grave affront to that mission, and we are committed to producing lawyers who lead the fight for justice under law in this and all other respects. Our commitment to fostering a diverse and inclusive environment is led by Professor Shavonne Henderson, Assistant Dean for Equity and Inclusion. But carrying out this charge is not the job of any one member of our staff. It is the shared work of everyone in our community – every faculty member, every staff member, and every student. We are all thinking – we must all be thinking always – about how we can make ourselves part of the solution to the racial challenges that confront our nation, our state, and our school. We must ask ourselves at all times what we can do to ensure that everyone who works or studies here feels recognized, supported, and valued by all others. The work of ensuring justice starts at home, and it begins again every day. Learn more about Texas Law’s mission and the University’s commitment to diversity. Ward Farnsworth, Dean Martin Luther King Jr. Day 2022 - Virtual Rally Due to concerns around the rising numbers of COVID-19 cases in the Austin-area, the 2022 MLK Festival has been canceled. Instead, There will be a virtual MLK Rally program on January 17th. Read more Meet Student Legacy Award Winner Anthony Collier We are very excited to celebrate Anthony Collier, a 3L Texas Law student and this year's Student Legacy Award winner! He is one of three student awardees who was honored last evening at the Heman Sweatt Symposium on Civil Rights. Read more Proud to be a First-Generation Lawyer On November 10th 2021 at 12:00 pm, presenters will share their experiences as they navigated from being a first-generation law student/LLM to first-generation attorney. Find more information here Money Matters On November 8th 2021 at 12:00 pm, presenters will share their strategies and approaches for managing their finances as a first-generation law students. Find more information here Most Influential and Up & Coming Lawyer awards Several Texas Law alumni—three of whom are also faculty—are being honored with the 2021 Most Influential and Up & Coming Lawyer awards by the Austin Black Business Journal. The annual awards recognize Black professionals in the legal field who have achieved professional excellence and have actively paved the way to success for others. Read more Alumni News Angela F Williams ('88) will become the next president and CEO of the United Way Worldwide. Williams will be the first woman and first African American to lead the organization. Read more Equity and Inclusion University Resources Lactation/Quiet Room Locations Gender Inclusive Restrooms Law School Events Law Student Organizations Discussion Groups & More Notable Archives Trainings Contact Us Student Spotlights Sheela Ranganathan ’22 For this edition of Texas Law’s Student Spotlight series, meet 2L Sheela Ranganathan, Human Rights Scholar at the Rapoport Center, Vice President of the Asian Pacific American Law Students Association, and Co-Founder of Law Students for Black Lives! Read more Anthony Collier ’22 For this edition of Texas Law’s Student Spotlight series, meet 2L Anthony Collier, Chair of the National Black Law Students Association, the largest student-run nonprofit in the nation! Read more Daniel Edwards ’24 For this edition of Texas Law’s Student Spotlight series, we invite you to meet 1L Daniel Edwards, national debating champion, and member of the Thurgood Marshall Legal Society! Read more Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.