Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS School of Law myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Why KU Law Dean's Message News and Events Select to follow link News Calendar Lectures & Conferences KU Law Magazine Dean's Note Communications Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Select to follow link Advisory Committees Diversity in Law Banquet Prelaw Programs History Select to follow link Traditions Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Resources for the Public Select to follow link Income Tax Assistance Legal Aid Medical-Legal Assistance Post-Conviction Appeals Contact Academics Select to follow link Degree Programs Select to follow link J.D. Program Select to follow link Degree Requirements - J.D. Program 2-Year J.D. Select to follow link Program Structure - 2-Year J.D. LL.M. in American Legal Studies Select to follow link Curriculum - LL.M. in American Legal Studies Doctor of Juridical Science (S.J.D.) Select to follow link Program Information - S.J.D. Joint Degrees Select to follow link JD/MBA (Business) JD/MA in East Asian Languages and Cultures JD/MA in Economics JD/MHSA (Health Services Administration) JD/MA in Indigenous Studies JD/MS in Journalism JD/MA in Philosophy JD/MA in Political Science JD/MPA (Public Administration) JD/MSW (Social Work) JD/MUP (Urban Planning) MS in Homeland Security Graduate Certificate in Homeland Security Areas of Study Select to follow link Business & Commercial Law Civil Litigation Constitutional Law Criminal Law Environment, Energy & Natural Resources General Practice Intellectual Property Law International & Comparative Law Litigation Media, Law & Technology Public Law Tax Law Tribal Law Hands-On Learning Select to follow link Clinics Select to follow link Legal Aid Clinic Mediation Clinic Project for Innocence Tribal Judicial Support Clinic Field Placements Select to follow link Criminal Prosecution Field Placement Elder Law Field Placement Field Placement Program Judicial Field Placement Medical-Legal Partnership Field Placement Skills Simulations Pro Bono Program Moot Court Program Mock Trial Program Kansas Journal of Law & Public Policy Kansas Law Review 6th Semester in D.C. Program Courses Select to follow link First-Year Curriculum Online Catalog >> Certificates Select to follow link Advocacy Skills Certificate Business & Commercial Law Certificate Environment, Energy & Natural Resources Law Certificate International Trade & Finance Certificate Media, Law and Technology Certificate Social Justice Certificate Tax Law Certificate Tribal Lawyer Certificate Centers Select to follow link Polsinelli Transactional Law Center Shook, Hardy & Bacon Center for Excellence in Advocacy Tribal Law & Government Center The Dru Mort Sampson Center for Diversity and Inclusion Global Programs Select to follow link Study Abroad Select to follow link Ireland Program Istanbul Program Trento, Italy Aberdeen, Scotland International Partners Visiting Scholars Program Admissions Select to follow link Apply Select to follow link J.D. Applicants Select to follow link Fee Waivers Two-Year J.D. Applicants LL.M. Applicants S.J.D. Applicants Transfer Students Visiting Students Admissions FAQ Visit & Connect Select to follow link Visit KU Law Admissions Events KU Law Video Series Tuition & Scholarships Select to follow link Tuition, Fees & Residency Financial Aid Scholarships Select to follow link Law Scholarship Application Private Scholarships Loan Repayment International Student Admissions Select to follow link Legal English Program Summer Start Student Ambassadors Class Profile LEAD Program Admitted Students Select to follow link Next Steps for Admitted Students Dates & Deadlines Admitted Students Events Select to follow link Admitted Students Weekend Entering Student Program Life at KU Law Life in Lawrence Housing & Child Care Careers Select to follow link Career Resources for Students Select to follow link Application Materials Boot Camp Interview Resources Job Searches Networking Skills Professionalism Career Resources for Alumni Select to follow link Reciprocity Resources for Employers Select to follow link Hire KU Law Interview Programs Career Programs and Events Select to follow link Career Development Programs Clerkships Employment Data Select to follow link Graduate Employment Statistics Select to follow link Employment Statistics Text Version Where Our Alumni Go Bar Exam Performance Symplicity CSO Newsletter Faculty & Research Select to follow link Faculty Profiles Administration Adjunct Faculty Emeritus Faculty Library Faculty Staff Research & Scholarship Select to follow link Faculty News Faculty Media Coverage Current Students Select to follow link Academic Resources Select to follow link Enrollment and Course Schedules Select to follow link Academic Calendar Class Schedule Enrollment Instructions Tentative Future Course Offerings Exam Information First-Day Assignments Prerequisites Legal Intern Practice Rule Academic Policies Select to follow link Academic Regulations Determination of Credit Hours for Coursework Disability Accommodations Dispute Resolution Policy Honor Code Records Requests Student Complaints Student Learning Outcomes Student Services Select to follow link Dean's Fellows Health & Wellness Technology Support Bar Exam Information Select to follow link Bar Exam Application Bar Exam Preparation Graduation Student Organizations KU Law Updates & Resources Alumni Select to follow link Alumni Events Select to follow link Reunions U.S. Supreme Court Swearing-In Ceremony Alumni Services Volunteer Select to follow link Board of Governors Distinguished Alumni Give to KU Law Keep In Touch Alumni Directory Library Select to follow link Library Hours Research & Study Guides Legal Databases User Services & Policies Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan Request Ask a Law Librarian About the Library Select to follow link Library Newsletter Fall 2021 Faculty Publications Library Catalog >> Directory Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Public myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo School of Law Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home KU Law Admissions At KU Law, we don't define value in traditional terms. Instead, we ask what we can give our students that will help them succeed anywhere they imagine. Get started Ready to be a Jayhawk lawyer? Apply today, connect with our Admissions staff or check the status of your application. Apply Now Apply Now Visit & Connect Visit & Connect Check Status Check Status Whether you envision your future self as an outstanding practitioner, a nonprofit agent of change or a business leader, KU Law will equip you with the deep knowledge and practice-ready skills to achieve your goals. With programs in areas as diverse as corporate law, international law and environmental law, Jayhawk lawyers have been exploring new horizons near and far for more than 140 years. At KU Law, you'll build connections with professors who are nationally recognized legal scholars. You'll form lasting bonds with classmates in an environment that's competitive but collegial. And you'll find a home in a top 10 college town with hundreds of things to do. Rankings and Stats #11 First-time bar exam pass rate nationwide in 2021, according to Reuters Bar Exam Results #19 Best Value Law School, according to National Jurist magazine (2020) Tuition & Scholarships 95% of Class of 2021 employed in full-time, long-term law jobs Employment Data Rise and specialize As a KU Law student, you can select courses from a broad curriculum and participate in a wide array of extracurricular learning opportunities. Academic Programs The KU Law Experience Diversity, Equity & Inclusion KU Law is committed to supporting diversity, equity and inclusion in the law school community and fostering a welcoming environment. Learn about related committees, programs and student groups. Diversity & Inclusion Hands-On Learning KU Law’s experiential learning program includes a mix of live-client clinics, field placements and skills simulations. Students have access to nine clinics and field placements, plus skills courses and student-edited journals. Hands-On Learning Student Life Students at KU Law take full advantage of opportunities outside the classroom, with 25 student interest groups at the law school and more than 600 across campus. KU Law has a rich legacy of traditions and pastimes. Student Life International Degree Programs KU Law offers a first-class program in international law at a major research university. International degree programs include the 2-Year J.D., International LL.M. and Doctor of Juridical Science (S.J.D.). International Admissions KU Law Info Sessions Join the Office of Admissions for an information session introducing you to life at KU Law. Register for an info session Register for an info session Admissions Events See all events Explore KU Law Tuition & Scholarships Select to follow link Class Profile Select to follow link Admissions Events Select to follow link Admissions FAQ Select to follow link Visit KU Law Select to follow link Student Ambassadors Select to follow link ABA Required Disclosures Select to follow link KU Law Blog Select to follow link Contact KU Law Admissions Steven Freedman, Associate Dean for Admissions Bryanna Hanschu, Director of Recruiting and Pre-Law Programming 103 Green Hall admitlaw@ku.edu 866-220-3654 Green Hall 1535 W. 15th Street Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 10, 11, 30, 41, 43 admitlaw@ku.edu 785-864-4550 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Apply to KU Law Visit KU Law Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Wheat Law Library Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.