Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Admissions and Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Frequently Asked Questions Admissions and Financial Aid Menu Frequently Asked Questions As you navigate the admissions process, you’ll encounter many commonly asked questions related to our program, applying, wait list, and standardized tests. We hope this information is helpful to you. If you have a question that isn’t answered below, please do not hesitate to send us your question at: admissions@law.utexas.edu. Program •Where can I get some basic information about the application process? •What are the advantages if I apply for Binding Early Decision? •Does the law school have any provisional admission or part-time program? • I’m interested in the JD program and another program at the University of Texas at Austin for dual degree enrollment, do I have to apply to both or just one? • I’m interested in visiting Austin and Texas Law, what is the best way to schedule a tour and class visit? • I’m only available to visit during the weekends or after 5PM, am I able to schedule a tour outside normal business hours? • I’m not really interested in applying to law school, can I audit a course offered at the law school? COVID-19 • Will the admissions and financial aid offices be fully operational and open during the fall semester? • Will I be able to visit the law school on my own even though the admissions office is closed? • I have questions and would like to speak with an admission professional, what are my options? • Where can I find the University's response and preparations in light of COVID-19? Applying • Does Texas Law offer application fee waivers? • How do I determine whether I’m a Texas resident or nonresident? • Are there any state residency requirements to apply to Texas Law? • What is the deal with the 65% Texas residency requirement? • Should I wait to register for the LSAC Credential Assembly Service (CAS) until all my grades are in or should I register for the CAS now and update my current grades later? • I attended university abroad, where do I send my foreign transcripts? • I've already submitted the required two (2) letters of recommendation through LSAC, am I able to have additional letters sent directly to the Admissions Office? • Should I submit an application before I take the LSAT/GRE or should I have an LSAT/GRE score ready first before submitting an application? • I have an LSAT/GRE score already but I plan to take a future test, should I apply now or wait until my new score comes in first? • I submitted an application, took the LSAT, but I haven't completed the LSAT Writing, is there a specific deadline to complete the LSAT Writing? • How do I access the Applicant Dashboard after I submit an application? • How will I be notified when my application is complete? • If my application for admission is denied, can I appeal that decision or request a reconsideration? • If I am admitted this year but cannot attend for some reason, can I defer my admission to next year's entering class? • I've been admitted to Texas Law, how do I accept my offer of admission? • What is Texas Law's policy on submitting multiple deposits at multiple law schools? • How will the Admissions Committee view Pass/Fail grades for any terms impacted by COVID-19? Standardized Tests • Should I take the LSAT or GRE? • How do I obtain a fee waiver for the LSAT or GRE? • When should I take the test? • Will my application be considered if I apply by the application deadline, but the LSAT score will be released after the deadline? • If I am applying using the GRE do I need to submit a CAS report? • How will Texas Law receive my CAS report without the LSAT? • If I'm applying using my GRE but I have an LSAT score or plan to take the LSAT, will the Committee only evaluate my GRE score? • If I take both the GRE and the LSAT am I required to submit my GRE scores to Texas Law? • Does Texas Law prefer one test over another? • Does taking both the LSAT and the GRE improve my chances of admission to Texas Law? • How will Texas Law evaluate multiple GRE scores? • How long are my LSAT/GRE score(s) valid to be considered for admission at Texas Law? •Will taking the LSAT-Flex put me at a disadvantage in the admissions process at Texas Law? Waiting Lists • How many students are admitted off of the wait list each year? • If I’m wait listed, is there anything more I can do to strengthen my application? • When will I receive a decision and how will I be notified? • If I am admitted from the wait list, may I defer my admission? • Will I have the opportunity to interview or meet with a member of the Admissions Committee? • If I'm admitted off of the waiting list, will I have any scholarship opportunities? Transfer Admissions • Do you offer application fee waivers for transfer applicants? • Is there an advantage to submitting a transfer application early after you begin accepting applications or should I wait to submit an application once I have completed the first-year? • I applied to Texas Law last year, can I just use the CAS Report that was submitted last year or do I have to submit another CAS Report? • I haven't completed my first-year yet, can I send a letter of good standing and ranking based only on the first semester of grades? • My school does not provide rankings until July (or later in the summer), can my application be marked complete and sent to the Committee until the rankings come in? • My school does not rank the 1L class, or they only rank the top X% of the class, how should I indicate this in my application? • I'm having difficulty getting my law school to submit transcripts, am I able to submit unofficial transcripts in the interim? • I've earned more than 32 credit hours (48 quarter hours) at my current law school, can I transfer those credits if I'm admitted to Texas Law? • I've completed two full years at my law school, should I apply as a transfer applicant? • Am I eligible to apply as a transfer applicant if I started law school in the spring semester? • I'm currently in a part-time program and will not complete my full first-year of law school in order to begin at Texas Law in the fall; will I still be able to apply to transfer? • If admitted, will there be scholarships available? Program •Where can I get some basic information about the application process? We've put together a short video to give you a quick overview of the application process at Texas Law. Back to top •What are the advantages if I apply for Binding Early Decision? The Admissions Committee evaluates candidates the same regardless of whether the candidate applies Early or Regular Decision. The advantages of applying Early Decision are that applicants receive a decision earlier than those applying under Regular Decision and successful Early Decision applicants receive a competitive scholarship offer. To learn more visit Early Decision Admissions Program. Back to top •Does the law school have any provisional admission or part-time program? We only offer a full-time program that begins in the fall semester. Back to top • I’m interested in the JD program and another program at the University of Texas at Austin for dual degree enrollment, do I have to apply to both or just one? You have to apply to Texas Law and the other program you are interested in independently as our admissions process, requirements, and offices are separate. Back to top • I’m interested in visiting Austin and Texas Law, what is the best way to schedule a tour and class visit? Beginning September 2021, create a visitor profile and use our automated system to schedule a tour. Back to top • I’m only available to visit during the weekends or after 5PM, am I able to schedule a tour outside normal business hours? The law school is only accessible during normal business hours 9-5PM, Monday through Friday with the exception of our Law Day and other special events that are on weekends or after hours. If you would like an electronic copy of our Self-Tour Guide, you may request a copy at admissions@law.utexas.edu. Back to top • I’m not really interested in applying to law school, can I audit a course offered at the law school? It depends. For more information about auditing a course and the requirements, visit here. Back to top COVID-19 • Will the admissions and financial aid offices be fully operational and open during the fall semester? Beginning August 2021, both our Admissions and Financial Aid Offices will return to in-person operations during normal business hours. And starting September 2021, we will resume in-person appointments and tours. Back to top • Will I be able to visit the law school on my own even though the admissions office is closed? Beginning August 2021, the law school will be opened during normal business hours and you may visit spaces open to the public. During non-business hours and weekends, the law school is closed to the public and is key-card accessible only. Back to top • I have questions and would like to speak with an admission professional, what are my options? We welcome the opportunity to speak with you over the phone or setup a virtual meeting at a time that is convenient for you. The best way to schedule a meeting is use our Scheduling Assistant. Back to top • Where can I find the University's response and preparations in light of COVID-19? Texas Law is working in partnership with The University of Texas officials to monitor and respond to our current global heath environment. Although the University’s coronavirus website will continue to be the primary source of information about the institution’s overall preparations for and response to the coronavirus, the following questions and answers are designed to provide additional information regarding admissions. Back to top Applying • Does Texas Law offer application fee waivers? We offer application fee waivers only for (1) recipients of LSAC's need-based waivers; (2) applicants who’ve participated in AmeriCorps, Teach for America, Peace Corps, or other similarly situated public service organizations; and (3) applicants who are serving or have served in any branch of the US military. Merit-based fee waivers are offered on a limited basis and applicants must first register with LSAC's Candidate Referral Service. If eligible, the applicant will receive an email from us with the fee waiver information. For more information, please visit Application Fee Waiver. Back to top • How do I determine whether I’m a Texas resident or nonresident? Generally, an applicant must reside and establish a domicile in the state of Texas for a period of one year prior to enrolling as a student. The University's Residency Officer (not the law school) makes determinations of residency status. Questions concerning a candidate's classification as a resident or as a nonresident should be directed to Graduate and International Admissions Center at residency@austin.utexas.edu or 512-475-7391. Visit their website for additional information. Back to top • Are there any state residency requirements to apply to Texas Law? There are no residency requirements to apply to Texas Law. We welcome resident, nonresident, international applicants each year. Back to top • What is the deal with the 65% Texas residency requirement? Texas Law and other law schools in the state of Texas are required to enroll a class of at least 65% resident students. This, however, should not impact your decision to apply to Texas Law. In fact, the majority of our applicants come from outside the state of Texas. Back to top • Should I wait to register for the LSAC Credential Assembly Service (CAS) until all my grades are in or should I register for the CAS now and update my current grades later? You should register for the CAS first and submit the required transcripts that are available. LSAC will automatically send us your CAS Report when your LORs have been received, you’ve paid your Report fee, and at least 60 credit hours are earned and reflected on your transcripts. We strongly encourage you to submit updated transcripts to LSAC to incorporate any new grades in your CAS Report. LSAC will automatically send us the updated reports when they are ready. Back to top • I attended university abroad, where do I send my foreign transcripts? Submit all required transcripts including foreign transcripts directly to LSAC to incorporate in your CAS Report. Back to top • I've already submitted the required two (2) letters of recommendation through LSAC, am I able to have additional letters sent directly to the Admissions Office? Only the two letters of recommendation submitted through LSAC's LOR will be part of an applicant's record and considered during the admission process. Back to top • Should I submit an application before I take the LSAT/GRE or should I have an LSAT/GRE score ready first before submitting an application? While it is entirely up to you, we encourage you to submit your application beforehand so that our staff can begin processing your application. Your application will be held incomplete and when your LSAT/GRE score is released, our staff can quickly update your record and submit your file for review. If you submit your application after you’ve received your score, expect additional time for your application to process. Back to top • I have an LSAT/GRE score already but I plan to take a future test, should I apply now or wait until my new score comes in first? If you indicate on your application that you plan to or have registered to take a future LSAT/GRE, then we will automatically hold onto your application until we receive the new score. You have the option to complete your application with existing scores at any time or if you change your mind about taking a future exam. Just let us know at admissions@law.utexas.edu and we'll continue processing your application. Back to top • I submitted an application, took the LSAT, but I haven't completed the LSAT Writing, is there a specific deadline to complete the LSAT Writing? We strongly encourage you to complete the LSAT Writing as soon as possible. Without a valid LSAT score and any Writing Sample, your CAS Report remains incomplete and your application will not be completed until we receive all required documents. Back to top • How do I access the Applicant Dashboard after I submit an application? After you submit an application through LSAC, you’ll receive an initial acknowledgement email. Only after we have initially processed your application will you receive an email with information on how to access the Applicant Dashboard. Depending on when you submit your application, it may take 3-5 business days to receive the secondary email. Back to top • How will I be notified when my application is complete? You can check the status of your application using the Applicant Dashboard, which will reflect the most recent activity. Back to top • If my application for admission is denied, can I appeal that decision or request a reconsideration? While all decisions are final, if there has been a substantive and/or material change in your application since your decision, you may submit a reconsideration appeal to admissions@law.utexas.edu. An example of a substantive and/or material change is an improved LSAT (or GRE) score. Back to top • If I am admitted this year but cannot attend for some reason, can I defer my admission to next year's entering class? Deferrals are considered on an individual case-by-case basis. A deferral request can be sent to admissions@law.utexas.edu. Back to top • I've been admitted to Texas Law, how do I accept my offer of admission? You can submit your enrollment deposit and view the other enrollment requirements in your Dashboard—Hook ‘Em! Back to top • What is Texas Law's policy on submitting multiple deposits at multiple law schools? We strongly discourage "double-depositing" with other schools prior to our LOI deadline, but prohibit it after that date, barring exceptional circumstances. After the LOI deadline, the Law School reserves the right to cancel the matriculation of any student who is reserving seats in both our entering class and the entering class of another law school. Back to top • How will the Admissions Committee view Pass/Fail grades for any terms impacted by COVID-19? The Committee is interested in an applicant's performance in their overall academic record, not just in one isolated term as part of our holistic review process. Notwithstanding the impact of COVID-19, students could choose to take pass/fail courses for a number of reasons (e.g., some courses are only offered pass/fail), for any given term. While the Committee will be keenly aware of the circumstances surrounding grading policies for the terms impacted by COVID-19, the applicant may wish to submit an addendum as part of their application to notate additional information. Back to top Standardized Tests • Should I take the LSAT or GRE? Beginning September 2018, Texas Law accepts GRE scores on a pilot basis while continuing to accept the LSAT -- we do not have a preference for either exam. Several factors may influence which standardized test to submit as part of your application, including whether you intend to apply to other law schools that only accept the LSAT, and whether you have plans to apply to a graduate program that may only accept the GRE. Back to top • How do I obtain a fee waiver for the LSAT or GRE? LSAC offers fee waivers for the LSAT and the Credential Assembly Service (CAS) and Educational Testing Service (ETS) offers a limited number of GRE Fee Reduction Certificates. Back to top • When should I take the test? LSAC administers the LSAT several times a year. For Early Decision applicants, you should take the LSAT no later than the October administration. Regular Decision applicants should plan to take the LSAT no later than the February administration in the year they are applying. ETS administers the GRE year-round. If you’re applying under Early Decision, you should have a score in no later than November 1. If you’re applying to Regular Decision, you should plan to take the GRE so that you have a reportable score in by March 1. Back to top • Will my application be considered if I apply by the application deadline, but the LSAT score will be released after the deadline? Yes, as long as your application is submitted by the application deadline your application will be considered. Once we receive your score and your file is complete, we will place your application in review. Back to top • If I am applying using the GRE do I need to submit a CAS report? All applicants must register for LSAC’s CAS and submit their letters of recommendations and transcripts through LSAC. Back to top • How will Texas Law receive my CAS report without the LSAT? GRE only applicants must instruct ETS to send all GRE test scores from the previous five years to Texas Law. Those who have taken the GRE can login to their ETS account and select Texas Law as a recipient using school code 2717. We will then request a CAS Report from LSAC. Back to top • If I'm applying using my GRE but I have an LSAT score or plan to take the LSAT, will the Committee only evaluate my GRE score? We’ll evaluate all reported standardized test scores. LSAC will send any and all of your reportable LSAT scores for the past five years automatically and we’ll include them in our evaluation regardless of whether your intention was to be evaluated only with your GRE score(s). Back to top • If I take both the GRE and the LSAT am I required to submit my GRE scores to Texas Law? It depends. You are only required to submit GRE scores if you would like Texas Law to consider them in the admission evaluation. Back to top • Does Texas Law prefer one test over another? No, Texas Law accepts both LSAT and GRE scores and does not have a preference for one exam over the other. Back to top • Does taking both the LSAT and the GRE improve my chances of admission to Texas Law? No, you should take the test that best suits your circumstances. Several factors may influence which test to submit as part of your application, including whether you intend to apply to other law schools that only accept the LSAT, and whether you have other plans for graduate study. Back to top • How will Texas Law evaluate multiple GRE scores? We will consider all reportable GRE scores and will evaluate each section of the GRE independently. We are required to report to the ABA the highest score achieved. Back to top • How long are my LSAT/GRE score(s) valid to be considered for admission at Texas Law? We will consider only LSAT/GRE score(s) within the last five years. Your most recent score must still be valid at the start of the semester for which you are applying. As an example, if you plan to enroll in Fall 2022, your most recent score cannot be before August 2017. Back to top •Will taking the LSAT-Flex put me at a disadvantage in the admissions process at Texas Law? No, the LSAT-Flex will be evaluated in the same way as we would have evaluated a non-LSAT-Flex score. The Committee is interested in the overall application and not in one specific part of the application in determining admissibility. Back to top Waiting Lists • How many students are admitted off of the wait list each year? It varies each year and past trends do not inform nor predict how many students we plan to admit off of the waiting list in the current year. The goal of the Committee is to maintain our enrollment targets until Orientation. As seats become available, we will admit students off of the waiting list. Back to top • If I’m wait listed, is there anything more I can do to strengthen my application? While the Committee has all the information they need to render a decision, there are ways you can strengthen your application. You can send your final undergraduate transcripts to LSAC to update your CAS Report. LSAC will automatically send us the updated Report once your transcripts have processed. Similarly, if you retook the LSAT, we will also receive an updated CAS Report automatically. You may send us substantive updates to your application or resume, or a letter of continued interest to admissions@law.utexas.edu. Please do not send more than 3 letters of continued interest throughout the admission cycle. Back to top • When will I receive a decision and how will I be notified? In general, most of the wait list activity occurs between May 1 and July 15 with some activity after that date leading into our Orientation in August. Most students admitted off of the wait list will receive a phone call. We will send monthly updates so that students are informed of their status and of our timeline. If you plan to be traveling abroad or you will not have ready access to your cellphone, please notify us at admissions@law.utexas.edu and provide an alternate form of contact. Similarly, if your contact information has changed, you can update that information in your Applicant Dashboard. Back to top • If I am admitted from the wait list, may I defer my admission? Deferrals are not available for students admitted off of the wait list. Back to top • Will I have the opportunity to interview or meet with a member of the Admissions Committee? We are unable to accommodate requests to meet with wait listed applicants. The Committee may invite selected candidates to interview during the wait list process. Back to top • If I'm admitted off of the waiting list, will I have any scholarship opportunities? While we're not able to guarantee scholarship funding, if any funding remains available, students admitted from the waiting list will have access to it. Back to top Transfer Admissions • Do you offer application fee waivers for transfer applicants? Unfortunately we do not offer any merit- or need-based application fee waivers for our transfer or transient applicants. Back to top • Is there an advantage to submitting a transfer application early after you begin accepting applications or should I wait to submit an application once I have completed the first-year? There is no advantage to submitting a transfer application early; you just have to submit an application by June 15. Applications are sent to the Committee for review only after all components of the application are received and your file is marked complete and ready for review. If you submit an application early, but you haven't completed your spring term yet, or you don't have all of your grades in or class ranking (if applicable), or your application is still pending other application requirements, your application will remain incomplete until everything else is in. Back to top • I applied to Texas Law last year, can I just use the CAS Report that was submitted last year or do I have to submit another CAS Report? You will have to submit another CAS Report that reflects your law school transcripts and your letters of recommendation for your transfer application. The Committee will not have access to prior applications. Back to top • I haven't completed my first-year yet, can I send a letter of good standing and ranking based only on the first semester of grades? Unfortunately no, you will have to wait until you've received all of your first-year grades so that your letter of good standing and your 1L ranking is based on your entire first-year of law school. If you submitted a letter of good standing and rankings based only on one term, please request to have another letter of good standing and rankings based on the full first-year. Back to top • My school does not provide rankings until July (or later in the summer), can my application be marked complete and sent to the Committee until the rankings come in? Unfortunately the Committee needs all components of the application in order to make an informed decision about your candidacy. But rest assured, as soon as we receive it, your application will be reviewed in a timely manner. Back to top • My school does not rank the 1L class, or they only rank the top X% of the class, how should I indicate this in my application? Your registrar or academic dean should notate the ranking requirements or policies for your school in the letter of good standing if it is not reflected on your transcripts. Back to top • I'm having difficulty getting my law school to submit transcripts, am I able to submit unofficial transcripts in the interim? Yes, we strongly encourage you to submit unofficial law school transcripts to complete your file, but any admission offer will be conditional until your official law school transcripts are received. Back to top • I've earned more than 32 credit hours (48 quarter hours) at my current law school, can I transfer those credits if I'm admitted to Texas Law? We're only able to accept up to 32 credit hours (48 quarter hours). If you've achieved more than those credits at your current law school when you enroll, you will forego those credits at Texas Law unfortunately. Back to top • I've completed two full years at my law school, should I apply as a transfer applicant? Because we're only able to accept up to 32 credit hours (48 quarter hours), you will forego an entire year of credits. We would encourage you to consider applying as a transient applicant. Back to top • Am I eligible to apply as a transfer applicant if I started law school in the spring semester? Unfortunately no. We require a full year of grades to be eligible to apply as a transfer applicant. Back to top • I'm currently in a part-time program and will not complete my full first-year of law school in order to begin at Texas Law in the fall; will I still be able to apply to transfer? Yes, you should consider applying but keep the following in mind, we only consider transfer applicants to begin in the fall semester, no exceptions. The Committee will evaluate your application based on what you've completed during the first-year and if successful, our Dean for Students will indicate which 1L courses you will need to complete at Texas Law. Back to top • If admitted, will there be scholarships available? While we don't have a separate pool of funding for successful transfer applicants, we encourage you to reach out to our Financial Aid Office to discuss funding opportunities once you're a current student. Back to top Admissions and Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admissions Bulletin Application Procedures Admissions Deadlines Check Your Status Frequently Asked Questions Admitted Students Student Ambassadors Student Housing Life in Austin Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admission Transfer Admission Transient (Visiting) Admission Frequently Asked Questions Texas Law-ITAM Program LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Equity and Inclusion Contact Us The J.D. Bulletin Admissions Bulletin Download PDF Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.