Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Texas Law News Associated Faculty Member: Lee Kovarsky Texas Law News Menu Lee Kovarsky in the News Lee Kovarsky’s faculty profile External link National Law Journal May 20, 2022 Should Law School Supreme Court Clinics Take Cases That Could Make “Bad” Law? Professor Lee Kovarsky is quoted in an article about the debate about the role of law school clinics in the highly competitive hunt with law firms for Supreme Court cases. External link Slate September 10, 2021 Did Backlash Over the Shadow Docket Spook the Supreme Court? Professor Lee Kovarsky was mentioned in an article regarding the Supreme Court's shadow docket. External link SCOTUSblog September 6, 2021 Abortion, the death penalty, and the shadow docket Professor Lee Kovarsky wrote an op-ed piece on controversy over laws and regulations regarding abortion, the death penalty, and the Supreme Court. External link The Intercept July 21, 2021 His Conviction Was Overturned Amid Evidence Of Innocence. The Supreme Court Could Throw It All Out. Professor Lee Kovarsky is quoted in an article regarding a controversial death row case. External link Texas Tribune March 18, 2021 Texas lawmakers push bill to make it easier to sue abortion providers and harder for new anti-abortion laws to be blocked by courts Professors Lee Kovarsky and Elizabeth Sepper are quoted in an article regarding the new Texas anti-abortion bill that will make it more difficult for courts to block the law. More of: Elizabeth W Sepper Texas Law News Alumni Magazine Archives Latest News Faculty in the News For the Media Contact Us Twitter Tweets by UTexasLaw Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.