Skip to Main Content? Texas Law Resources for: Students Faculty Staff Quick actions: Apply Give Log In Search University of Texas at Austin What are you searching for? Search Main Menu: Admissions & Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admitted Students Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admissions LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Visit Us Equity and Inclusion Frequently Asked Questions Academics & Degree Programs Juris Doctor Program Master of Laws (LL.M.) Dual & Combined Degrees Experiential Learning Centers Texas Law Faculty Student Affairs Academic Services Support Services Student Life Equity and Inclusion Graduation Contact Student Affairs Career Services Finding Employment Career Paths Career Resources Judicial Clerkships For Alumni For Employers Employment Statistics Symplicity Login Contact Career Services Alumni & Giving About Texas Law Other links: News Calendar Directories Law Library CLE Texas Law Home Admissions and Financial Aid Visit Texas Law Admissions and Financial Aid Menu Visit Texas Law We are currently offering guided tours and virtual/phone appointments for you to learn more about Texas Law. Please visit the links below to view the schedule and sign up. If you can’t make a tour in person, check out our virtual tour video. Schedule a tour of the Law School Schedule a Virtual Meeting or Phone Call with Admissions Getting Here The University of Texas is located is the heart of Austin—capital of the great state of Texas—and a city famous for live music, great food, and beautiful scenery. Getting here is easy, and staying here is too. Getting to Austin Hotel Information Things to do in Austin While in Austin, be sure to explore. Here are just a few highlights to consider checking out: Austin Events Calendar Texas Memorial Museum The Blanton Museum of Art LBJ Presidential Library and Museum Harry Ransom Center Texas State Capitol Visitors Center The Bob Bullock Texas State History Museum Austin Convention and Visitors Bureau Admissions and Financial Aid J.D. Admissions Admissions Bulletin Application Procedures Admissions Deadlines Check Your Status Frequently Asked Questions Admitted Students Student Ambassadors Student Housing Life in Austin Quick Facts Tuition & Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Transfer/Transient Admission Transfer Admission Transient (Visiting) Admission Frequently Asked Questions Texas Law-ITAM Program LL.M. Admissions Recruiting Events Equity and Inclusion Contact Us The J.D. Bulletin Admissions Bulletin Download PDF Contact Texas Law Texas Law 727 East Dean Keeton St. Austin, Texas 78705 (512) 471-5151 Give to Texas Law Connect with Texas Law Facebook Twitter YouTube Flickr Instagram Helpful Links UT Home ABA Required Disclosures Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy Emergency Information Contact Us Resources Student Resources Faculty Resources Staff Resources © 2022 The University of Texas at Austin. PDF files require Adobe Reader or compatible.