Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > Featured > TU Law students receive top honors TU Law students receive top honors November 10, 2021 Each November, the Oklahoma Bar Association (OBA) holds its annual meeting in Oklahoma City. A highlight of that event is the presentation of OBA and Oklahoma Bar Foundation (OBF) awards to students enrolled in the state’s law schools. Three University of Tulsa College of Law students received awards at TU Law’s alumni luncheon on Nov. 10, which took place during the OBA’s annual meeting. The three outstanding students are: Matthew Cecconi: OBA Outstanding Student Award Trevion Freeman: OBF Chapman Rogers Scholarship Matthew Woolslayer: OBF Fellows Scholarship Matthew Woolslayer, Trevion Freeman and Matthew Cecconi “Recognition of three of the College of Law’s exceptional student leaders by the OBA and the OBF is so well deserved,” said Interim Dean Elizabeth McCormick. “Matthew, Trevion and Matthew exemplify the commitment to excellence in scholarship and professionalism that is the trademark of TU Law students and alumni. On behalf of all my colleagues, I offer sincere congratulations. We are looking forward to more outstanding contributions from these three to the profession and to their communities in the future.” Matthew Cecconi Matthew Cecconi The OBA Senior Student of the Year award from TU Law – the college’s marquee award – was presented to Matthew Cecconi (3L). Hailing from California, where he completed a B.A. at Occidental College, Cecconi is looking forward to a career as a litigator. He intends to focus his professional practice on labor and employment law as well as appellate litigation. “I am grateful to both the faculty of TU Law and the OBF for this honor,” said Cecconi, who in 2020 was named a Holloway Scholar by the Federal Bar Association. “I owe my success to all the faculty, staff and administrators who have supported me throughout my studies thus far. Specifically, I would like to thank the late Professor Evelyn Hutchison for her support during my first year of law school. Her constant encouragement led me to believe that I belonged in law school and allowed me to excel in all of my courses.” Trevion Freeman Trevion Freeman This year’s recipient of the OBF Chapman Rogers Scholarship is Trevion Freeman (3L), who grew up in East Waco, Texas, and earned a B.A. at the University of Texas at Austin. Freeman’s main areas of legal interest are civil and criminal litigation as well as federal Indian law. In addition to his coursework, Freeman serves as president of the Student Bar Association. Uncertain at first whether he was suited to the rigors of law school, Freeman credits much of his resilience and success to the many “professors and mentors who embraced and encouraged me at every turn and junction of my time at TU Law.” In particular, he cites the influence of three professors: Robert Butkin, Shena Burgess and Aila Hoss. “These individuals have all been, and continue to be, beacons of light on my law school journey,” Freeman remarked. “I am grateful for their support and for the Chapman Rogers Scholarship Award, which is easing my financial burden.” Matthew Woolslayer Matthew Woolslayer The proud recipient of the 2021 Oklahoma Bar Foundation Fellows Scholarship is Matthew Woolslayer (2L). After earning a bachelor of science in exercise and sports science at TU in 2017, Woolslayer attended Arizona State University, where he completed a master’s in sports law and business. Now back at his alma mater, Woolslayer’s main legal interests are general litigation and sports law. After graduation, he hopes to work for a law firm in Tulsa and, one day, open his own agency. “I am very thankful for the people who have supported me on my journey, including my wife, Brooklynne, and other family members. It is an honor to receive this scholarship and I hope to continue the legacy that my grandfather, James H. Payne, imprinted on the Oklahoma legal community.” Discover your inner advocate and prepare for practice at The University of Tulsa College of Law. Apply today! Featured, Law School, News, Stories, Student Stories Matthew Cecconi, Matthew Woolslayer, OBA, OBF, Oklahoma Bar Association, Oklahoma Bar Foundation, Trevion Freeman 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT