Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law https://youtu.be/2wWtF4wX7KY JURIS DOCTOR Admission Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Diversity Diversity Scholarships Frequently Asked Questions Faculty Bulletin/Catalog Information ABA Required Disclosures Important Dates Character & Fitness Jurisdiction Requirements Student Ambassadors SCHEDULE A VISIT REQUEST INFORMATION APPLY Tuition and Aid Value and Affordability Part of what makes Tulsa Law one of the best values in private law school education is affordable tuition and a commitment to providing assistance to our students. Did you know that 93% of our student body receives scholarships? When you apply, you’ll automatically be considered for merit-based scholarships. No additional forms are required! And any scholarship you are awarded upon admission is renewable as long as you maintain good academic standing (a 2.0 GPA). In addition to our merit-based scholarships, you may also be eligible for one of 15 external diversity scholarships! Get started with your application today! Tuition, fees and estimated costs The 2022-2023 cost of attendance for a student living off-campus attending full-time & part-time is listed below. F/T 8-11 hrs 6-7 hrs Tuition $27,686 $19,380 $15,182 Student Services Fees $100 $100 $100 Fees $1,184 $386 $358 Room/Board $12,323 $12,323 $12,323 Books $1,500 $800 $600 Travel $3,650 $3,650 $3,650 Personal $6,650 $6,650 $6,650 Loan Fees $1,050 $1,050 $1,050 Total $54,143 $44,339 $39,913 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT