Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > Externships > Meet the Staff Meet the Staff https://youtu.be/R_XvRSVvlk4 EXTERNSHIPS Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Lauren N. Donald Assistant Dean for Experiential Learning, Director of Externships 918-631-2421 lauren-donald@utulsa.edu Lauren Donald joined The University of Tulsa College of Law in January 2013, previously serving as the Associate Director of Professional Development. In August 2015, she transitioned into her new role as Assistant Dean for Experiential Learning and Director of Externships wherein she is responsible for the development, administration and management of the law school’s externship program. The externship program allows students the opportunity to gain academic credit for in-the-field, practical experience in the practice of law. Dean Donald received her Juris Doctor from The University of Tulsa College of Law and is licensed to practice law in Oklahoma. Following law school, she worked in Tulsa, Oklahoma, as a litigation associate for Gibbs Armstrong Borochoff Mullican & Hart, PC. During her tenure at Gibbs Armstrong, her practice focused primarily on transportation defense at both the state and federal level with emphasis in corporate and railroad defense litigation, as well as environmental, regulatory and compliance areas. Dean Donald brings strong local connections and market insight to TU College of Law and is active with the OBA and the Tulsa County Bar Association. She has served since 2013 as the co-chair for the TCBA Mentoring Committee. Additionally, Dean Donald is an active member of NALP, the Association for Legal Career Professionals, and serves on the long range planning committee for the NALP Small and Solo CSO Section. She presented at NALP’s Annual Education Conference in 2014 in Seattle, Washington, and in 2015 in Chicago, Illinois. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT