Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame The Law School Menu Search Search About Academics Admissions Faculty & Scholarship Student Life Professional Life News & Events Contact Resources For: Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Home › Faculty & Scholarship › Kresge Law Library Kresge Law Library The Kresge Law Library holds more than 420,000 print volumes of legal texts, along with digital access to millions of journal articles, cases and other documents through our numerous digital database subscriptions. But perhaps what the Law Library is most known for is its grand Reading Room, which awes with its two-story open archways and third floor wrap-around balcony. Filled with study carrels and large tables, the library serves as an academic hub for the Law School. During the weeks leading up to finals, you'll find a steady stream of scholars populating the tables and carrels. The law library faculty and staff are ready and more than willing to help you with legal research for your courses or other questions related to class work or writing. The Kresge Law Library is open to the public from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday, though special exceptions are made during finals weeks at the end of each semester, when the library is reserved for law students only. All visitors are expected to wear masks in the library at all times. Search Kresge Library Catalog Author Title Subject Keyword Go View library resources Scholarship Archive NDLScholarship is the institutional archive for the Law School. It collects and maintains publications, scholarship, and other archival material from Notre Dame Law School for the global community. Visit NDLScholarship Federal Depository Library Program Patrons requiring assistance with Federal Depository Library Program materials may call 631-5993 or email at askus@nd.edu. Home About Academics Admissions Faculty & Scholarship Kresge Law Library Library Resources Interdisciplinary Studies Faculty Events Student Life Professional Life News & Events Contact Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni Kresge Law Library Library Resources Interdisciplinary Studies Faculty Events Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame The Law School Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Contact Accessibility Information Annual Clery & Fire Safety Reports Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Today@NDLS