Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law Mabee Legal Information Center Summer Hours Monday – Wednesday | 8:00am – 8:00pm Thursday & Friday | 8:00am – 5:00pm Saturday & Sunday | Closed **CLOSED Monday, June 20th in observance of Juneteenth. Search TU Libraries & beyond Databases Research Guides Ask a Librarian! https://youtu.be/YKUi9fzNRuY?list=PLPfyKp474fm2LYyuyYuJ7aIcCs4UFMHjp MABEE LEGAL INFORMATION CENTER Databases Research Guides Digital Commons Calendar Room Reservations Policies Staff The Mabee Legal Information Center serves as the law library of The University of Tulsa College of Law. The MLIC offers the latest library technologies in a comfortable, spacious and attractive research environment for students, faculty and attorneys. Patrons may access numerous computers conveniently located throughout the facility. The MLIC has a solid core legal collection as well as specialized collections in energy and environmental law and policy and Native American Law. The Center houses both law school journal offices, the Board of Advocates, the Utsey Family Native American Law Center, Comparative and International Law room, an Alternative Dispute Resolution Center, an Alumni Conference room and many group study rooms. Search TU Libraries INTERLIBRARY LOAN RENEW CHECKED OUT MATERIALS Circulation Desk The Circulation Desk in the MLIC is located on the second floor, just inside the library. Individuals requesting group tours, special classes or privileges should email mlic@utulsa.edu. To rent carrels or purchase additional print pages, please use the online MLIC Store. Membership Attorneys and alumni of the College of Law may purchase a membership. Please contact the MLIC if you have any questions about the various types of memberships. Ask A Librarian During regular business hours, students faculty and staff may reach a reference librarian at 918.631.2404. Our email address is mlic@utulsa.edu. Email and phone reference can answer short, primarily factual questions. Email is not amenable to long, involved research situations. The librarian on duty may refer a patron to either a specific librarian, or ask the patron to come to the reference desk in person. We are unable to answer questions that apply the law to facts, recommend specific actions, or recommend specific forms. The Mabee Legal Information Center respects users’ privacy, but we cannot guarantee the privacy of files, email or other information stored or transmitted electronically. Please do not submit sensitive factual information to the library. 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT