Skip to main content Link to TU homepage Visit Apply Give × Close Menu ABA Required Disclosures About About TU Law Academic Policies Administration & Staff Diversity Facilities Office of the Dean Graduate Employment Outcomes Request Information Admissions Juris Doctor (JD) Apply Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Important Dates Viewbook FAQs Employment Outcomes Request Information Schedule a Visit Virtual Tour Degree Programs Degree Programs Juris Doctor (JD) Master of Jurisprudence (MJ) Accelerated Degrees Undergraduate Minor in Law, Policy, & Social Justice Sustainable Energy & Resources Law Student Services Student Services Admitted Students Academic Support Bar Support Professional Development Public Interest/Pro Bono Student Organizations Housing, Dining & Parking Faculty Law Journals Externships Externships Externship Packet Recent Placements Supervisors Meet the Staff Legal Clinics Legal Clinics Buck Colbert Franklin Legal Clinic Immigrant Rights Project Tulsa Immigrant Resource Network Terry West Civil Legal Clinic Public Defender Clinic Study Abroad & Exchange Programs Resources Room Reservation Request Law Library Law Journals Native American Law Center Student Organizations Virtual Tour Contact Quick Links Bulletin Courses Campus Map Calendars Law Library TU Portal Information For... Law Alumni Current Students Applicants Faculty Legal Community Apply Visit Give Close Menu × Close Menu Close Search Link to site home page College of Law > Degree Programs > A top value law school to prepare you for an exceptional future > Admission – Juris Doctor Program Admission – Juris Doctor Program https://youtu.be/2wWtF4wX7KY JURIS DOCTOR Admission Tuition and Aid Financial Aid Diversity Diversity Scholarships Frequently Asked Questions Faculty Bulletin/Catalog Information ABA Required Disclosures Important Dates Character & Fitness Jurisdiction Requirements Student Ambassadors All applicants are required to apply online via the Law School Admission Council (LSAC). A non-refundable application fee of $30 must accompany all applications for admission to TU College of Law unless a fee waiver has been previously granted. REQUEST FEE WAIVER APPLY TO TU LAW JURIS DOCTOR PROGRAM (LSAC) Applying to law school – a quick guide Applying to law school may seem overwhelming at first. But it’s also not the monster you might have anticipated it to be! For applicants to ABA-accredited JD programs in the United States, the Law School Admission Council (LSAC) is the central service through which applications are made. Here are the main steps: Create an LSAC account. Register and prepare for the Law School Admission Test (LSAT) – the only test accepted for admission to most ABA-accredited law schools. Register for the Credential Assembly Service (CAS). Order all the necessary college and university transcripts to be sent for assembly in your CAS report. Ask for letters of recommendation. Apply to law school via lsac.org. More information You might find it helpful to review this handy LSAC checklist, which lays out the process in more detail. This LSAC video also really helps to demystify the process. For questions regarding your CAS report, call 215-968-1001. Good luck in your search for the law school that fits you best. And remember: We are here to help you along the way. Just send us a note at lawadmissions@utulsa.edu or give us a call at 918-631-2406. We would love to speak with you and, if you come to Tulsa, show you around our beautiful law school. Military Training transcript If you received military training, you must submit a Military Training transcript to The University Registrar, 800 South Tucker Drive, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104-3189. What is taken into account for law school admission and scholarship consideration? Undergraduate cumulative GPA LSAT score Character and fitness Personal Statement (submitted with application) Two recommendation letters (submitted to CAS) Other factors may include, but are not limited to, writing ability, the seriousness of purpose regarding the pursuit of a law degree, employment history, capacity for leadership, maturity, obstacles overcome, discipline, passion for law and service within the community or within the campus community. Application Checklist Must hold a Bachelor’s degree from a regionally accredited four-year institution. Complete the Law School Admissions Test (LSAT). Register with the Credential Assembly Service (CAS). Submit an application and personal statement to TU Law via LSAC. Submit two letters of recommendation to the CAS. Comply with the Character and Fitness Jurisdiction Requirements. Check Application Status Thank you for applying to The University of Tulsa College of Law. Please monitor the status of your application through LSAC website. Check your application status Re-Applicants Students who have been denied acceptance to TU College of Law and who wish to reapply, in addition to submitting a new application and CAS report, must attach a written statement to their new application which describes what steps the applicant has taken to improve their qualifications for admission. If it has been determined by a TU College of Law admission officer that one of the reasons for denial was a low LSAT, the applicant must have retaken the LSAT and shown an increase in score. Please note that all steps that were taken in the original application must be repeated. Therefore, a new CAS report and application are necessary. Any previously denied applicant is welcome to contact an admissions counselor at lawadmissions@utulsa.edu to discuss the reason for denial. Submit written statements to: The University of Tulsa College of Law Office of Admissions 3120 East Fourth Place Tulsa, Oklahoma 74104 Transfer Applicants Students who wish to transfer to The University of Tulsa College of Law must complete the following in the application process: Submit an application for admission and a personal statement to TU Law via LSAC.org. (Check the transfer box on the application.) Reactivate CAS account with LSAC. Arrange to have two letters of recommendation submitted through LSAC. Submit a statement that explains a reason for the transfer request. Arrange for the dean of current law school to send a letter of good standing to the TU Law Office of Admissions. This letter should also include class rank. Arrange for current law school to send an official transcript reflecting a full year formal matriculation. If an applicant has completed only one semester, a conditional decision will be made based upon hours completed. Acceptance will be contingent upon receipt of a transcript reflecting all matriculation including the second semester. A second letter of good standing will need to be sent when the final transcript is sent. Specific policies regarding transfer applications may be found in The University of Tulsa College of Law Handbook. Transfer of Grades and Credits Admission with Advanced Standing The Admission and Financial Aid Committee, in its discretion, may admit a transfer student with advanced standing subject to the following: The dean of the law school from which the transfer is sought shall certify in writing the applicant’s good standing and the unconditional eligibility to re-enroll. The academic credit to be transferred shall have been earned in a law school that is approved or provisionally approved by the American Bar Association. The applicant shall meet all admission standards of TU College of Law and shall comply with the procedures for admission. A transfer with advanced standing shall be denied if no transferable law school credits were earned within a period of three years prior to the semester or summer session for which admission is sought. Applicants with Online Degrees In addition to completing the general requirements for admission, applicants who have earned undergraduate degrees from online colleges or universities must provide written documentation from their undergraduate institution that the college or university is regionally or state accredited. The applicant must also provide written documentation that the online degree or program of study is regionally accredited. International Applicants In addition to completing the general requirements for admission, applicants who have earned undergraduate degrees from institutions outside the United States or Canada must have their transcripts evaluated through the LSAC JD Credential Assembly Service. This service is included in the CAS subscription fee and the evaluation will be incorporated into the CAS report. TU College Law accepts score reports for either TOEFL or IELTS exams. The Credential Assembly Service also includes a report of your English Proficiency score as a convenience for you. LSAC accepts score reports for either TOEFL or IELTS exams and will include your scores in your credential report when LSAC receives an official score report from the testing service. To have your IELTS score sent, you must request that your official score report be sent to LSAC for electronic download using the IELTS system to Law School Admission Council LLM/JD Credential Assembly Svc. LSAC cannot accept paper copies of scores. Minimum overall IELTS score required to be considered for admission: IELTS 6.5. To submit a TOEFL score, you must contact the Education Testing Service (ETS) and request that your TOEFL score be sent to LSAC. The LSAC TOEFL code for the Credential Assembly Service is 0058. This score will also be incorporated in your CAS report. Minimum overall TOEFL score required to be considered for admission: Internet-Based Total: 90 Computer-Based Total: 233 Paper-Based Total: 570 Financial responsibility must be attested to in accordance with current cost estimates. Please complete the Confirmation of Financial Resources form. Alternatively, if an applicant wishes, he/she may provide a bank statement instead of the official CFR form as long as the bank statement is in English and the name of the person who has the account is listed on the form and it shows the banks name. If choosing this method and the account is not their own, they need to put in writing how this person is related to them. Applicants may also obtain a letter from their bank that states that they have at least the needed amount. The letter must be signed by a bank official and be on bank letterhead. If an applicant is to be funded through an outside scholarship or corporate sponsor, he/she needs to provide an official letter stating exactly what is to be covered and a dollar amount. For information about our international student community or questions about immigration and visas, please visit the Office of International Student Services. Summer Start Program Summer Start is a great way to get a jump-start on your law school journey. By securing a seat in our summer class, participating first-year students have the option to continue to accelerate or alternatively, lighten their course load during the fall 1L semester. Summer 1L enrollment consists of one four credit hour substantive first-year law class. Successful completion of Contracts summer means that you will not take this class in the fall semester of the 1L year. For those who have scholarship, one-twelfth of your overall scholarship package may be allocated toward summer law school tuition. However, please note that in order for financial aid (loans) to cover any portion of summer school tuition, students must be enrolled in a minimum if six summer credit hours. Information about how to enroll in an optional 2 credit hour elective will be made available to admitted summer applicants in the spring. Successful completion of the summer Contracts course plus the additional two credit hour elective will result in summer 1Ls earning a total of six credit hours toward the 88 required for the JD degree. Those who elect to start law school in the summer will automatically be enrolled for fall courses totaling 11 credit hours. If you wish to enroll in an additional elective course in fall of 1L year to replace the contracts course already completed, that opportunity will be provided during the summer Foundations of Legal Study (FLS) orientation. All first-year law students who intend to begin law school in summer will begin enrolling in late May. At the time of summer enrollment, you will need to know whether you intend to take four (4) credit hours (Contracts only) or six (6) credit hours (Contract plus an optional two(2)-credit hour elective) during the summer. Office of Admissions Staff April M. Fox, Esq. Associate Dean, Director of Admissions april-fox@utulsa.edu Megan Henson, J.D. Senior Associate Director of Admissions & Financial Aid megan-henson@utulsa.edu Lisa Abbott Administrative Coordinator for Law Admissions lisa-abbott@utulsa.edu 800 S. Tucker Drive Tulsa, OK 74104 (918) 631-2000 Link to Facebook Link to Twitter Link to Instagram Link to YouTube Link to Snapchat Link to LinkedIn RESOURCES ABA Required Disclosures Apply Visit Contact TU Report Site Issue SITE POLICIES News & Media Privacy Policy Cookie Policy Accessibility Policy Social Media Policy © 2022 The University of Tulsa We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. Cookie settingsACCEPT Manage consent Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT