Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home About Mission History Our Staff Policies Visit LBC Hours of Operation The Commons Hours of Operation Directions & Parking Building Maps Accessibility Lounge + Study Spaces Offices + Departments Loading Dock Newcomb Institute Amenities Get Involved Activities + Programs Student Organizations Student Employment Events Calendar Plan an Event Event Locations Market Your Event Event Policies EMS How-To Guide Dine + Shop LBC Food Court Dining Room at the Commons Shopping + Services Forms + Resources Contact About Visit Get Involved Plan an Event Dine + Shop Forms + Resources Contact Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Request Info Visit Information For... Home / Get Involved / Student Organizations Student Organizations Join an Organization Interested in joining a Recognized Student Organization at Tulane? Click here to check out the full list of organizations. Start an Organization Interested in starting a Recognized Student Organization at Tulane? Visit startastudentorg.tulane.edu to get details on the application and chartering process. Lead an Organization More information coming soon! Advise an Organization Are you an advisor of a Recognized Student Organization at Tulane? Check out adviseastudentorg.tulane.edu for details on advising, new advisor checklist, advisor meetings, and more. Student Organization Center The Student Organization Center (SOC) is a space where all Recognized Student Organizations (RSOs) can meet, utilize various resources, and is a welcoming space where students can come hang out. RSOs can utilize the space for smaller meetings, poster making for tabling events or marketing purposes, button making, printing/copying of materials, locker storage, and receiving packages. If you want to learn more, scroll below for a specific list of resources we provide. Location: The SOC is located in the Garden Level (basement) of the Lavin-Bernick Center (G11). Spring 2022 Hours: Monday- Friday: 8:30am-5:30pm After Hours and Weekends: 5:30-10:00pm (Monday-Friday); 9:00am-10:00pm (Saturday & Sunday) Please note after hours and weekend access is by-request only. RSOs can request access for up to 2 members per organization by completing this form. Please note, only 2 members per Recognized Student Organization, will be given access. Limited resources available during after hours and weekend times Services Provided Meeting Space: Open table spaces available smaller meetings (i.e. 2-10 participants) Poster Making: poster paper, paint and ink markers, construction paper Chalk Rental: Want to chalk on McAlister? Stop by the SOC to get all the chalk you need! Button Making: Stop by the SOC Front Desk to reserve the button maker and represent your student organization on campus! Printing/Copying: 50 copies a day per student organization Locker/Back Storage Closet Storage: Student Organizations can store small items in lockers or larger items in the back closet for use throughout the year. Interested in locker/storage space? Only a few spots available, follow this form to request storage space in the SOC. Package Receiving: Did you order items for an upcoming event? They will be delivered to the SOC and your organization will be notified when it arrives! Recognized Student Organization Handbook The RSO Handbook is your comprehensive guide to student organization resources, policies, and procedures. Check out studentorghandbook.tulane.edu for this year's handbook. COVID-19 REPORTING Use this link if you suspect you are infected with COVID-19 or have come in contact with someone who is infected. COVID-19 Reporting Form Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Lavin-Bernick Center 504-865-5190 News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University