Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Degree ProgramsDC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Sections Master of Public Affairs Dual Degrees with Public Affairs Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Master of Global Policy Studies Dual Degrees with Master of Global Policy Studies Specializations within Global Policy Studies Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Current Ph.D. Students Ph.D.s on the Job Market LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Fast-tracking federal policy careers. An immersive 15-month course of accelerated study and work focused on both domestic and international federal policymaking. Offered through the LBJ Washington Center, the DC Concentration gives master's students the extraordinary opportunity of simultaneously working in the nation’s capital and earning a public policy graduate degree. The DC Concentration operates as an integrated track within the LBJ School’s traditional MPAff and MGPS degree programs. After a year of intensive policy coursework in Austin, students (LBJ DC Fellows) continue their studies at night in Washington, DC, while embarking on a six-month Policy Apprenticeship with a public, private, nonprofit or nongovernmental organization, jump-starting their Washington-based careers. Designed to train future leaders for careers in the domestic or international policy arenas in Washington, DC, the DC Concentration aims to transition LBJ DC Fellows into the DC policy workforce a full semester earlier than traditional public policy programs. Unlike their counterparts at other nationally ranked public policy schools, LBJ DC Fellows graduate in December of their second year of studies, rather than the following May. DC Concentration Course of Study LBJ DC Fellows spend their first two semesters in Austin following a slightly customized version of the traditional first-year MPAff or MGPS curriculum. Students then relocate to Washington, DC, in June to pursue their Policy Apprenticeships for 32 hours per week during the summer and fall semesters of their second year. Simultaneous with their Policy Apprenticeships, students will take core academic courses at the LBJ Washington Center, focusing on the essentials of policymaking at the federal level. The DC Concentration prepares graduates to work in the complex federal policy environment, including how to: contribute from day one to organization-critical projects; translate research and ideas into effective policy; formulate and communicate policy positions in high-pressure, media-driven environments; and develop effective strategies and skills to engage with public policy professionals at the highest levels of federal policymaking. Professional networking, as well as policy, social and other events give students opportunities to meet with senior federal policymakers in diverse settings, and a formal LBJ School Senior DC Alumni Mentorship Program pairs the students with experienced alumni and other professionals already working in public policy careers in Washington. Upon successfully completing their DC academic and Policy Apprenticeship commitments, LBJ DC Fellows graduate in December of their second year. View DC Concentration course descriptions or a sample program of study. Estimated DC Program Tuition and Fees (based on 2020–21 tuition rates) Texas Resident (in-state) Fall/Spring semesters in Austin (25 hours) tuition: $12,130 Summer in DC (10 hours) tuition: $4,558 Summer in DC fee: $8,750 Fall semester in DC (10 hours) tuition: $5,362 Fall semester in DC fee: $8,750 Total program tuition and fee: $39,550 Non-resident (out-of-state) Fall/Spring semesters in Austin (25 hours): $23,407 Summer in DC (10 hours) tuition: $8,605 Summer in DC fee: $8,750 Fall semester in DC (10 hours) tuition: $10,124 Fall in DC fee: $8,750 Total program tuition and fee: $59,636 A community of doers with a lifelong connection A strong tradition of smart action. Viable solutions for society's challenges. Contributions to today's social dialogue. The LBJ experience puts you in the middle of it all. Experience a lifelong connection that begins now.Discover the LBJ experience Master of Public Affairs Dual Degrees with Public Affairs Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Master of Global Policy Studies Dual Degrees with Master of Global Policy Studies Specializations within Global Policy Studies Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Current Ph.D. Students Ph.D.s on the Job Market LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Ready to learn more about the application process? Admissions (MPAff) Admissions (MGPS) Experience the LBJ School Request More Information Loading... Connect With Us Robin Presta Boone Associate Director, LBJ Washington Center Location LBJ Washington Center Email: rboone@utexas.edu Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Team Location SRH 3.104 Phone 512-471-4292 Email: LBJadmit@austin.utexas.edu Ready to learn more about the application process? Admissions (MPAff) Admissions (MGPS) Experience the LBJ School Request More Information Connect With Us Robin Presta Boone Associate Director, LBJ Washington Center Location LBJ Washington Center Email: rboone@utexas.edu Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Team Location SRH 3.104 Phone 512-471-4292 Email: LBJadmit@austin.utexas.edu Keep Exploring LBJ Washington Center UT Graduate School Tuition Information Master of Public Affairs Degree Program Master of Global Policy Studies Program LBJ School Faculty How to Apply The LBJ Student Experience Contact Info Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Location SRH 3.104 Phone 512-471-4292 Email: lbjosaa@austin.utexas.edu LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022