Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School Development Office of the LBJ School of Public Affairs Sections Invest in the next generation of policy leaders. Financing the ambitious vision of the LBJ School of Public Affairs requires resources beyond what tuition and public funds provide. Gifts to the LBJ School allow the LBJ School to recruit outstanding applicants, affording students the chance to obtain a high-quality education and contribute viable solutions for real and lasting change in society. Thank you in advance for your support, which strengthens everything we do, from curriculum quality to graduate fellowships, research opportunities and student and faculty initiatives. What starts here starts with you. Give Now » Alumni Donor Spotlight: Brad Englert (MPAff '84) Brad Englert (MPAff '84) is an author, adviser and technologist, and the founder of Brad Englert Advisory, a company he created after serving for seven years as the Chief Information Officer of The University of Texas at Austin and 22 years at Accenture, including 10 years as a partner. He has played an integral role in helping UT and other institutions of higher education, state governments and private-sector companies implement strategic IT plans and systems. Englert and his wife, attorney Corliss Hudson Englert (MPA '86, J.D. '89) have generously endowed a fellowship for students at the LBJ School. Read more Endowment gifts create opportunities for LBJ students Financing the ambitious vision of the LBJ School of Public Affairs requires resources beyond what is provided by tuition and public funds. Gifts to the LBJ School strengthen everything we do, from the quality of the curriculum to graduate fellowships, research opportunities and student and faculty initiatives. We are grateful to each and every one of our donors, who make the world a better place through their generous philanthropy. Meet our most recent endowment donors. Read more Richter endowments extend LBJ's health policy impact Drs. James M. and Claudia U. Richter created a critically important opportunity for both faculty and students with their 2019 gift, which creating three endowments at LBJ to support work in health policy. Given the constantly changing landscape of health policy since then, from the COVID-19 pandemic to seismic changes in areas including reproductive health policy, their gift is especially timely — and it puts LBJ in a position to advance both research and thought leadership in these areas. Read more Ways to Give How to make a gift Gifts to the LBJ School are fully tax deductible, and there are a number of ways to make your contribution. For assistance related to gift options or how to make a gift, contact LBJ Development staff. Ways to make a gift Give back to the LBJ School through the Annual Fund Gifts to the Annual Fund support the areas of greatest immediate need at the LBJ School. These current-use gifts deliver critical resources to our students and faculty members, provide extraordinary educational opportunities and help the school continue to be a model for graduate education in public affairs that effectively blends the academic with the practical while keeping pace with a changing world.Give to the Annual Fund Support the LBJ School Washington Center The LBJ Washington Center is creating a strong physical presence for the LBJ School and The University of Texas in our nation’s capital. Through a unique and rigorous 18-month federal policy curriculum, the DC Concentration in MPAff and MPGS prepares our graduates to work in the complex Washington, DC, policy environment.Support the LBJ Washington Center Build a solid foundation for the LBJ School with an endowment gift Approximately 30 percent of the LBJ School’s annual operating expenses are met through income from endowments established by generous donors. Endowment gifts provide permanent support to the LBJ School because the gift principal is invested, never spent. Endowments can be set up for a wide variety of purposes and offer naming opportunities to donors or their honorees. Learn more Gift planning can work for you Gift planning can help you honor what you value most and can enable what you never dreamed possible. A planned gift, such as a bequest, IRA distribution or life-income gift, can help you accomplish personal financial goals while creating a meaningful legacy for the LBJ School. Katy Fendrich-Turner of the Department of Gift & Estate Planning at UT Austin can help you explore and understand the many available options for making a planned gift to the LBJ School. Reach her at 512-232-8054 or katy.fendrichturner@austin.utexas.edu.Learn more about gift and estate planning at UT Austin LBJ School Dean's Advisory Council The LBJ School of Public Affairs is proud and grateful to have the support of our outstanding Dean's Advisory Council. See our full Dean's Advisory Council roster General Pledge Form Gift & Estate Planning Giving Contacts Leighton Wilson Chief Development Officer Phone 512-471-2760 Email: leighton.wilson@austin.utexas.edu Rachel Fogle Ciullo Associate Director of Development and Alumni Relations Location SRH 3.380 Phone 512-471-3004 / cell: (512) 569-1336 Email: rciullo@austin.utexas.edu Giving Contacts Leighton Wilson Chief Development Officer Phone 512-471-2760 Email: leighton.wilson@austin.utexas.edu Rachel Fogle Ciullo Associate Director of Development and Alumni Relations Location SRH 3.380 Phone 512-471-3004 / cell: (512) 569-1336 Email: rciullo@austin.utexas.edu LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022