Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School Ph.D. in Public Policy Degree ProgramsPh.D. in Public Policy Sections Master of Public Affairs Dual Degrees with Public Affairs Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Master of Global Policy Studies Dual Degrees with Master of Global Policy Studies Specializations within Global Policy Studies Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Current Ph.D. Students Ph.D.s on the Job Market LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Fostering next-level expertise through flexible, substantive research. A flexible program for those with strong academic and professional success and a passion for research and policy in its many forms. Applications paused for Fall 2022 Due to an unexpectedly large 2021 entering cohort and our desire to provide robust financial support to our doctoral students, the Ph.D. program will not be accepting applications for Fall 2022. We will begin reviewing applications for admission in September 2022 for students wishing to enter the program in Fall 2023. In the meantime, please reach out to one of our expert Graduate Admissions Coordinators to learn more about the LBJ School's degree programs. The LBJ School's Ph.D. program has been in place since 1992 and has approximately 35 doctoral students working at various stages of the degree program. Its flexible curriculum allows students to develop in areas of special interest, both intellectually and professionally, and earn their degrees in just four years. They receive close, personalized mentoring from our expert faculty members, and many of our students publish with those faculty and present papers at major conferences and meetings. This, along with unparalleled access to one of the top public research universities, allows students to enter their chosen arenas with a strong foundation of theory and practice. In addition to our excellent faculty members, all of whom are closely engaged in teaching and research, the LBJ School offers connections to several major research centers in the school with foci ranging from health and social policy, philanthropy and nonprofit management to international security and politics. Our doctoral students have access to an extensive network of alumni and connections throughout the U.S. and abroad. Our Ph.D. graduates have developed successful careers in academia, think tanks, international organizations, nonprofits, private consulting, policy research institutions and state and federal government. Sample Core Program Curriculum In addition to core courses, doctoral students are expected to successfully complete a number of additional graduate-level courses (selected from the vast menu of courses at UT Austin and approved by their faculty advisers) relevant to their research area. Theory and Philosophy of Public Policy I Part one of a year-long sequence, this course is designed to serve as a foundation for understanding the broad theories that have influenced the policy sciences and academic policy research to prepare students to design and conduct their own research. This course is designed to provide an overview of major theories and problems in contemporary public policy from a variety of academic disciplines, as well as the search for a unique policy theory. Theory and Philosophy of Public Policy II Part two of the Theory and Philosophy sequence focuses on extending the scope of part one to address public policy formulation and implementation in the political, economic, social and organizational contexts within which they occur. Course content includes philosophies, analytic frameworks, theories and models that illuminate how policy research contributes to policymaking. Advanced Research Methods of Public Policy Intended to be a rigorous course in empirical methods, students have the opportunity to gain essential skills for conducting doctoral-level research and beyond. Students are asked to pursue a research or policy question that relates directly to their individual research plan and apply statistical concepts and methodologies to the analysis of that policy issue. Research Design This course in research design provides a structured framework through which students can build on and apply their methods training to produce a quality research paper in their field of study. The research paper developed in the course can, if the student wishes, contribute to or act as a base for the eventual dissertation proposal. Research Colloquium Doctoral students are required to participate in the weekly Faculty and Ph.D. Research Colloquium, an integral part of the program that brings faculty members, students and guests together to engage in a discussion of current policy research. Topics change weekly based on the interests of the students and faculty. Master of Public Affairs Dual Degrees with Public Affairs Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Master of Global Policy Studies Dual Degrees with Master of Global Policy Studies Specializations within Global Policy Studies Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Current Ph.D. Students Ph.D.s on the Job Market LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Ready to learn more about the application process? Admissions Plan Your Visit Request More Information Loading... Connect With Us Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Team Location SRH 3.104 Phone 512-471-4292 Email: LBJadmit@austin.utexas.edu Ready to learn more about the application process? Admissions Plan Your Visit Request More Information Connect With Us Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Team Location SRH 3.104 Phone 512-471-4292 Email: LBJadmit@austin.utexas.edu Keep Exploring LBJ School Faculty Faculty Research and Publications UT Graduate School Dissertations How to Apply Plan Your Visit Contact Info Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Location SRH 3.104 Phone 512-471-4292 Email: lbjosaa@austin.utexas.edu LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022