Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School Master of Public Affairs Degree ProgramsMaster of Public Affairs Sections Master of Public Affairs Dual Degrees with Public Affairs Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Master of Global Policy Studies Dual Degrees with Master of Global Policy Studies Specializations within Global Policy Studies Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Current Ph.D. Students Ph.D.s on the Job Market LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Shaping public policy and tackling the greatest issues of our time. The first graduate public affairs program to blend academic theory with practical experience—exposing students to diverse opinions and real public life challenges. The Master of Public Affairs (MPAff) program combines formal coursework in theory and relevant analytical skills with ongoing opportunities for practical application. The graduate degree program requires 48 semester hours of coursework, 27 of which are satisfied by core courses. The balance of the coursework consists of general electives drawn from LBJ School offerings, approved courses offered by other units on campus or courses that meet specialization requirements. An internship between the first and second years provides direct contact with the operating realities of government, nonprofit and advocacy organizations. Graduate Advisor Sherri Greenberg on what makes the MPAff program unique We Bring Policy to Life Core Program The core curriculum in public affairs provides a general foundation for understanding the economic, political, analytical and management principles of policymaking. Advanced Policy Economics This three-hour course is focused on the application of economic theory and techniques to a specific area of public policy. Advanced Empirical Methods for Policy Analysis This course provides students with an in-depth understanding of and hands-on experience with a specific quantitative method useful in policy analysis. Applied Microeconomics for Policy Analysis Students learn to identify the relevant economic analyses for their strengths and weaknesses in relation to the economic principles involved, and to comprehend and assess what professional economists can contribute to the public sector. Introduction to Empirical Methods for Policy Analysis Students develop an understanding of how to use basic quantitative tools in policy analysis with an emphasis on broad exposure of techniques and appreciation of their contributions as well as their limitations in policymaking. Policy Research Project A unique component of the LBJ School curriculum, the Policy Research Project is a two-semester group research course on a topic of concern to an external client agency. Through an emphasis on interdisciplinary research on real-life policy problems, students develop and integrate their research ability, quantitative skills and financial knowledge; appreciate the realities of administrative and legislative processes; experience the impact of political pressures and conflicts; and practice effective oral and written communication with policy practitioners. Policy Development Students cover the development and adoption of public policy in American government, using different substantive policy concerns to explore how individuals and institutions initiate and/or give legitimacy to public policy. Public Financial Management This course provides a basic understanding of U.S. governmental financial activities at all levels. Students may develop their capabilities to analyze financial operations, coordinate with relevant public policies and programs and effectively manage the resources of public entities. Public Management Through substantive instruction in administrative policymaking and implementation, students are introduced to the role and method of administration in meeting policy expectations, resolving issues, responding to new requirements and evaluating performance. Customize Your Degree With scores of electives and courses cross-listed with other units on campus every semester, students have a great degree of flexibility in designing a program of study that meets their specific policy interests. The MPAff program also offers three formal mechanisms for customizing a degree. Dual Degree Programs Portfolio Programs A community of doers with a lifelong connection A strong tradition of smart action. Viable solutions for society's challenges. Contributions to today's social dialogue. The LBJ experience puts you in the middle of it all. Experience a lifelong connection that begins now.Discover the LBJ experience Master of Public Affairs Dual Degrees with Public Affairs Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Master of Global Policy Studies Dual Degrees with Master of Global Policy Studies Specializations within Global Policy Studies Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Current Ph.D. Students Ph.D.s on the Job Market LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Ready to learn more about the application process? Admissions Experience the LBJ School Request More Information Loading... Connect With Us Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Team Location SRH 3.104 Phone 512-471-4292 Email: LBJadmit@austin.utexas.edu Ready to learn more about the application process? Admissions Experience the LBJ School Request More Information Connect With Us Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Team Location SRH 3.104 Phone 512-471-4292 Email: LBJadmit@austin.utexas.edu Keep Exploring LBJ School Faculty UT Graduate School Tuition Information DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) How to Apply The LBJ Student Experience Plan Your Visit Contact Info Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Location SRH 3.104 Phone 512-471-4292 Email: lbjosaa@austin.utexas.edu LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022