Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School Frequently Asked Questions AdmissionsFrequently Asked Questions Sections How to Apply Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff) DC Concentration (MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Executive Master in Public Leadership Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Still have questions? Here's more information about applying to the LBJ School. LBJ Admissions Team Blog: A guide to the admissions process for the LBJ School of Public Affairs at The University of Texas at Austin. See what MPAff student Irving Calderon had to say about how Open House answered his questions and convinced him LBJ was the right choice. Check out our webinars for prospective students Contact the Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Where do I submit my application materials? Online submission of the graduate school application is completed through ApplyTexas, the common application for Texas public universities. Create your account at ApplyTexas by visiting goapplytexas.org. Once the application is complete, you will receive access to your MyStatus page. There, you may upload your resume, statement of purpose and letters of recommendation. For information on submitting transcripts and GRE scores, visit The University of Texas Graduate School website at gradschool.utexas.edu. Does the LBJ School offer application fee waivers? Application fee waivers are handled through the UT Graduate School. You can find more information at gradschool.utexas.edu/how-to-apply. Are international students required to take the TOEFL? Yes, all international students whose first language is not English must take provide scores from the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) exam. The LBJ School does not accept International English Language Testing System (IELTS) exam scores. Does the LBJ School accept the GMAT or LSAT in place of the GRE? For the 2021–22 application cycle (Fall 2022 entry), the LBJ School is offering a temporary waiver of the GRE due to the unique challenges brought on by COVID-19. The GRE is optional for this cycle only and applicants may submit a GRE score if they feel it will strengthen their application. If I applied last year, do I need to resubmit new materials? Yes. A new statement of purpose, resume and letters of recommendation must all be submitted to be reconsidered for admission. Does LBJ have a preferred undergraduate major from which they accept students? No. The LBJ School accepts applicants from a variety of undergraduate majors and seeks to form a class of students who bring a diverse set of experiences and perspectives to the school. Our students come from a variety of disciplines such as government, education, energy, engineering, business, health care, journalism and more. How can I check on the status of my application? After submitting your ApplyTexas application, you will receive access to your MyStatus page, where you will receive updates. Does the LBJ School offer deferred admission programs? At this time, deferrals are only granted on a case-by-case basis. Is a deposit required to secure my spot at the LBJ School? No, LBJ does not require a deposit. The only item needed to secure your spot is your signed acceptance form and formal acceptance via MyStatus. Can I be considered for financial aid and/or fellowships? Financial aid applications are handled through the UT Financial Aid Office (gradschool.utexas.edu/finances/financial-aid). Your application materials will be used for fellowship consideration through the LBJ School — you do not have to submit any additional materials. Does LBJ offer Graduate Research Assistant and/or Teaching Assistant positions? Yes. LBJ students hold these types of positions across campus, and most begin their employment search in the summer. How to Apply Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff) DC Concentration (MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Executive Master in Public Leadership Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Connect With Us Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Team Location SRH 3.104 Phone 512-471-4292 Email: LBJadmit@austin.utexas.edu Connect With Us Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Team Location SRH 3.104 Phone 512-471-4292 Email: LBJadmit@austin.utexas.edu LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022