Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School The LBJ Advantage Student ExperienceThe LBJ Advantage Sections Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations See what makes the LBJ School unique. We are the only public policy school tied to a top-tier research university, a presidential library, a state capital and a foreign border. Location matters when choosing where to study the public sphere, because being up close and personally involved with policymaking is vital. The state of Texas and city of Austin—plus the LBJ Washington Center—provide a complete governmental learning laboratory. The University of Texas at Austin The LBJ School is an integral part of UT Austin, a Tier I public research university; the interplay between the school and university multiplies the networks that every fully engaged faculty member brings to this campus. The opportunity to learn with students from many different disciplines enriches one’s education as well as one’s professional networks. Texas The largest state in the lower 48, Texas is a policy powerhouse, a breeding ground for the most important challenges facing our country. Its civic discourse represents a broad range of political perspectives and a rich environment for engagement and analysis. As a border state with Mexico, it offers a blend of different cultures and socioeconomics, and its proximity to South America, a growing force in global dynamics, extends its international reach. Austin Austin is one of the fastest-growing and dynamic cities in the nation, with the highest U.S. concentration of millennials. The vibrant city has long attracted innovative business and organizations and fosters a culture of entrepreneurship and creative collaboration. As the home of the state Legislature, it provides an unparalleled opportunity for students to gain hands-on policy experience. LBJ Presidential Library The LBJ School and its students are connected via an imposing granite plaza to the LBJ Presidential Library, whose vast historical archives are an amazing resource for our students. It is one of 13 presidential libraries administered by the National Archives and Records Administration. Washington Presence The DC Concentration in MPAff and MGPS provides students the extraordinary opportunity of living, working and earning a degree in our nation’s capital through a unique 18-month degree program focused on federal public policy. Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022