Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School Policy Research Projects Student ExperiencePolicy Research Projects Sections Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Applying new knowledge to complex client issues. A capstone project with real-world impact, designed to provide students hands-on experience in policymaking. Master of Public Affairs and Master of Global Policy Studies students cap off their academic experience at LBJ with a year-long policy research project (PRP). This project pairs teams of students with a client to address a complex policy issue in a real-world context. Each fall, students attend a PRP fair to explore the coming academic year’s projects. Reports are issued to clients at the end of the spring semester. Policy Research Projects Housing + Economic & Social Mobility For clients HousingWorks and the Housing Authority of the City of Austin, students will examine the connection between housing and mobility and the access to predictors of economic and social mobility such as education, health care, open space and social opportunities. Faculty lead: Sherri Greenberg Sustainability of Engineered Rivers in Arid Lands: The Paso del Norte Students will study options for sustainable water management in the Rio Grande/Bravo segment between Elephant Butte Reservoir and Fort Quitman, a watershed shared by two U.S. states and a Mexican state. Findings and policy recommendations on dealing with increased water scarcity will by published by Cambridge University Press in their UNESCO Hydrology Series. Faculty leads: Jurgen Schmandt and Chandler Stolp Evaluating the Impact of PreK3 For client Austin Independent School District, students will conduct the first evaluation in the nation to determine whether children who experience two years of public preK (ages 3-4) are better prepared for Kindergarten. Faculty lead: Cynthia Osborne Texas Low-Income Profiles Project Students will contribute to a better understanding of low- to middle-income Texans with a goal of enabling strategic decision-making among stakeholders in Texas’ electricity market—utilities, regulators, policymakers, nonprofits and service providers. Client: Texas Energy Poverty Research Institute. Faculty lead: Heath Prince. Young Hip Austin is Getting Old: A New Experiment in Dealing with the Challenge Students will develop a business plan to address care needs in a diverse Austin neighborhood with a rapidly aging low-income population. Clients: Central Health and St. David’s Foundation. Faculty lead: Jacqueline Angel Beyond the Border: Policy Responses for Central American Migration For client Sin Fronteras, students will conduct research into better responses to issues related to Central American migration, covering security concerns, overlap of migrant smuggling groups with organized criminal networks, current Mexican policy efforts and U.S. border and immigration policies. Faculty lead: Stephanie Leutert Commercialization of Advanced Technologies in Poor Rural Areas in Japan and Nepal This class will provide study and action opportunities for students in the challenge of commercialization of high-tech industries in poor rural areas that seek to create new businesses, employment and wealth. Faculty lead: David Eaton Interplay of Social, Economic, Technological and Policy Drives in the Solar Industry Students will study the underlying social, economic, technological and policy processes that have shaped the solar industry. Client: Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. Other partners: National Renewable Energy Laboratory, University of Wisconsin-Madison and Yale University. Faculty lead: Varun Rai Spies and Special Operations: Unity of Effort in the ‘Gray Zone’ Between War and Peace With a final report to the Department of Defense, students will examine the progressive integration of capabilities of U.S. Special Operations forces and the U.S. intelligence community since 9/11. Faculty lead: Paul Pope Plutonium for Energy? Environmental, Economic and Security Issues Students will produce cross-national case studies of past efforts to recycle plutonium as fuel in nuclear power reactors, focusing on economic, environmental and security concerns. Faculty lead: Alan Kuperman LBJ Students Tackle Mexico Security Challenges Students take a comprehensive look at Mexican security policy to think critically about ways they could be improved in the future. From readings to guest lecturers and a trip to Mexico City, students immersed themselves in numerous aspects of this complicated international issue.Read more Supporting Collaboration to Address Local Poverty A 2016-17 Policy Research Project led by the LBJ School’s Chris King focused on 2-Gen strategies in Central Texas to streamline and coordinate the services provided to families to help them improve their economic situation.Read more Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Learn more about our master's programs.Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022