Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School News Sections LBJ School of Public Affairs ranks top 10 in 2023 USNWR best grad schools The LBJ School of Public Affairs at The University of Texas at Austin has seven top-ranked programs among graduate public affairs schools in the nation, with three in the top 10, according to U.S. News & World Report's (USNWR) 2023 edition of "Best Graduate Schools." Read more Feature • May 9, 2022 Alyssa Goessler (MGPS/Middle Eastern Studies '22) finds her place in space policy Alyssa Goessler has never been shy about trusting her instincts and leaping into new territory. "There's a small handful of folks, myself included, who would identify as space environmentalists," Goessler said. But there was a time when she didn't give much thought to space — until a chance encounter at the LBJ School opened it up as a new path. Read more Feature • May 2, 2022 Derreck DaSilva (MPAff '22) discovers a new direction: from nursing to public policy Derreck DaSilva began his career as a registered nurse at St. David's Medical Center, less than a mile from the LBJ School. Driven by his desire to help people, he'd specifically chosen to become a nurse rather than a doctor, because he wanted to be closer to the patients he'd be caring for. Read more Feature • April 25, 2022 Nina Nomura Nibling (MGPS '22) finds community, confidence and a passion for development Nina Nomura Nibling was teaching English in Japan when she started thinking about going to graduate school. She'd earned her undergraduate degree in education and followed parental advice about taking a career path with a stable income. But after a couple of years that stability just didn’t feel fulfilling. Read more News • April 4, 2022 Ambassador Vilma Martinez named 2022 graduation speaker at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs Vilma Martinez, the first woman to represent the United States as ambassador to Argentina and a UT graduate, returns to The University of Texas at Austin to deliver the graduation address to the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs class of 2022 on May 21. Read more Topics Alumni Spotlights and Events Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Research and Achievements Happening at LBJ LBJ School Announcements Student Activities Media Mentions See All Media Mention • May 4, 2022 President Biden Taps Nationally Renowned Criminal Justice Researcher Nancy La Vigne to Lead National Institute of Justice LBJ School alumna Nancy La Vigne ('91), was appointed by President Biden as the director of the National Institute of Justice, which is a part of the U.S. Department of Justice. Read More Media Mention • May 4, 2022 Abortion pills by mail pose challenge for officials in red states "The need for abortion will not go away," said Abigail Aiken, an associate professor of public affairs at the University of Texas at Austin who was the lead author on the research. The result of state restrictions on medical abortions, she said, will lead to "an increase in self-managed abortion, outside the formal health-care setting. What we have seen is that every time states move to restrict abortion, there is an increase in self-managed abortions." Read More Media Mention • May 3, 2022 Texas' restrictive abortion law previews a post-Roe America When Politico published a draft opinion leaked from the U.S. Supreme Court on Monday, the nation confronted the reality that Roe v. Wade and constitutional protections for abortion may be overturned as soon as this summer. But for many in Texas, that day is already here. The second-largest state in the country has been living under the nation's most restrictive abortion law since Sept. 1, when legislators managed to skirt judicial precedent and ban all abortions after about six weeks of pregnancy. ... Read More Recent See All News • May 11, 2022 Class of 2022: Chelsi Chang chosen as student speaker It is the Graduate Public Affair Council's pleasure to announce that Chelsi Chang will be our LBJ School Class of 2021 Student Commencement Speaker! Chelsi will be sharing the stage with Ambassador Vilma Martinez, who has been named our Commencement Keynote Speaker. Read More News • April 25, 2022 CONNECT Program Manager Alyssa Studer recognized with Outstanding Staff Award Alyssa Studer, Program Manager for the CONNECT program, received the Outstanding Staff Award from the President's Office. The award recognizes non-teaching UT Austin employees who have made outstanding contributions to the continuing success of the university. Alyssa received the award due to her outstanding service to the CONNECT program, which Alyssa has managed since its beginning in Spring 2019. Read More News • April 13, 2022 RGK Faculty Fellow Becky Lentz selected as city fellow Dr. Becky Lentz has been selected as one of several City Fellows (three university-based and several community-based) for the 2021–22 academic year affiliated with UT Austin's Equitable and Regenerative Cities Flagship Project. City Fellows join a team of more than 150 researchers as part of Planet Texas 2050, one of three Grand Challenge research grants at The University of Texas at Austin supported by UT's Bridging Barriers program. The Planet Texas 2050 team works across disciplines to find ways to make our state more resilient, "adapting to thrive" in the face of climate change and population growth. Read More LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022