Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School Sections Contact Contact Us Reach out to us with questions or for more information about the LBJ School of Public Affairs. The Dean's Office has primary responsibility for academic administration and planning, the school's budget, and staff supervision. It also serves as the liaison with other parts of the University and the noncampus community. The Associate Dean for Academic Affairs is responsible for the School's academic and research programs Executive Leadership JR DeShazo, Dean Taya Kitaysky, Executive Assistant to the Dean Varun Rai, Associate Dean for Research Catherine Weaver, Associate Dean for Academic Strategies Shannon Chapman, Assistant Dean for Enrollment and Student Services Peniel Joseph, Associate Dean for Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Estevan Delgado, Director of Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion William Shute, Executive Director, LBJ Washington Center Victoria Yu, Chief Marketing Officer Joyce Sparks, Acting Director of the Office of Professional Development General Contact Information Mailing Address Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs The University of Texas at Austin P.O. Box Y Austin, TX 78713-8925 Campus Mail Code: E2700 Street Address 2300 Red River St., Stop E2700 Sid Richardson Hall, Unit 3 Austin, TX 78712-1536 Main Phone 512-471-3200 Email For LBJ Executive Master in Public Leadership: lbjexecmaster@austin.utexas.edu Admissions-related inquiries for all other programs: lbjadmit@austin.utexas.edu All other inquiries: lbjdeansoffice@austin.utexas.edu Map and Driving Directions lbjmap.jpg From northbound or southbound IH-35, exit E. Dean Keeton Street. From northbound IH-35, take exit 235b and proceed along the frontage road. Turn right on E. Dean Keeton Street, then immediately turn left on Red River Street. Turn into the third parking lot on the right, for the LBJ Library. From southbound IH-35, take exit 236a, proceed along the frontage road, and turn right on E. Dean Keeton Street. Go under the IH-35 overpass. Immediately turn left on Red River Street. Turn into the third parking lot on the right, for the LBJ Library. The LBJ School is in Sid Richardson Hall (SRH), a three-story white building between Red River Street and the large, white marble LBJ Library. The LBJ School is located in the northern half of Sid Richardson Hall. There are entrances at the middle of the school on the parking lot side of the building and on the southern end of the building, which corresponds to a breezeway that connects the parking lot to the plaza surrounding the LBJ Library. View a campus map. Elevators and a stairwell are located in the middle of the LBJ School. The Office of Student Affairs and Admissions is located on the first floor. The Dean's Office and the school's main receptionist are on the third floor. Admissions Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Graduate Advisers Giving Professional Development LBJ Communications and Media Relations LBJ Finance and Administration LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022