Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School News • March 22, 2022 65 women leaders comprise LBJ Women's Campaign School incoming class Women of color make up 63% of the third cohort, which includes small business owners, teachers, mothers, community activists, lawyers and more. AUSTIN, TEXAS — Today, the LBJ Women's Campaign School announced the 65 women who will form its third incoming class. The LBJ Women's Campaign School is a nonpartisan, issue-neutral program that trains women who want to run for elected office or become campaign managers, regardless of political party. The program brings together top political experts from across the nation to lead an immersive training program on topics including media relations, public speaking, fundraising, grassroots organizing and more. The program kicks off in Austin on April 29-30, with monthly virtual through November. Through the eight-month program, these women will gain an insider network, professional mentorship, and the skills they need to win. The 65 women were selected through a rigorous review process from nearly 120 applications, based on their leadership potential, commitment to public service, and professional experience. These women leaders are passionate small business owners, mothers, professors, community activists, lawyers, authors, CEOs, and engineers ready to jump into the political arena. Women of color make up 63% of the third cohort, which includes women in their 20s through their 60s. The women represent a wide range of political ideologies, and have plans to run for state representative, judge, city council, school board and Congress, and to become campaign managers. "This is more than a training program, we are building a movement. I cannot wait to see these leaders run for office and win!" —Amy Kroll, LBJ Women's Campaign School The third cohort joins the 120 LBJ Women’s Campaign School alumni who are already stepping up to serve their community in the political arena. Eleven program alumni have already stepped up to run for office including running for judge, school board, city council, state representative, state senate, secretary of state and Governor in Texas, Arkansas, and Maryland. Others have served as campaign managers, senior level campaign staff, or are impacting policy in other ways. “This is more than a training program, we are building a movement.” said Amy Kroll, founder and executive director of the LBJ Women’s Campaign School. “It is well past time for women to have equal representation in politics. I cannot wait to see these leaders run for office and win!” Women are 51% of the population but are only about a third of elected officials nationwide. In Texas the political gender gap is even worse. Women make up only 19% of the Texas Congressional Delegation, 26% of the Texas Legislature, and 12% of statewide elected officials. Thanks to grants from Texas Woman's University Center for Women in Politics and Public Policy, Texas residents are attending for free, further knocking down socioeconomic barriers for women in politics. The LBJ Women's Campaign School is sponsored by Women's Public Leadership Network and the Texas Business and Professional Women's Foundation and over 130 individual donors. The LBJ Women’s Campaign School is part of the LBJ School of Public Affairs at The University of Texas at Austin. Women change-makers in the third cohort: Ashley Alaniz-Moyer Cassidy Lee Jacqueline Odessa Alonzo Katherine Longoria Genesis D. Arizmendi Jaymie H. Mangelsdorf Lexi Bachran Marliza Anahi Marin Heather Betancourth Carol K. McCutcheon Trish Bode Katie Mehnert Emily Brizzolara-Dove Sonia Melendez Reyes Laurel Bush Nelly Montellano-Nugent Maria Isabel Campos Gabriela Ibarra Noriega Amy T. Colvin Emily Norwood Katherine S. Culbert Ciara Parks Marianne DeLeon Erica Peña-Vest Lindsey Deringer Candace D. Queen Cindy M. Dinh Bianca I. Ramirez Jessica Dunn Joanna Ramirez Jamie Eickhoff Claudia Sanchez Roxanne Evans Sarah Sem Patricia A. Freitag Thea Setterbo Rachel Gallardo Mina Shekarchi Irene Chavez Galvan Ana Marie Silbas Afua Giles Samantha M. Smith Lesli A. Gray Hannah M. Spurr Phyllis Durbin Grissom Whitney Stuard Holly Heinrich Lauren Swords Jessica Herrera Monique M. Tate Dawn Jones Jenny Bridgett Tavarez Tiffany Jones-Smith Kimberly Villarreal Thaggard Abbey Judd Makia Akinola Thomas Kiara Kabbara Na'Cole Thompson Anagha Kikkeri Cynthia Valadez-Mata Tonya L. Knauth Patricia A. Vojack Miriam Laeky Patricia A. Vojack Em Landon Learn more at the LBJ Women's Campaign School website. Topics Alumni Spotlights and Events Diversity & Inclusion Faculty Research and Achievements Happening at LBJ LBJ School Announcements Student Activities LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022