Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School AdmissionsExperience the LBJ School Sections How to Apply Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff) DC Concentration (MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Executive Master in Public Leadership Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Experience the LBJ School Experience the LBJ School The LBJ School boasts a dynamic community of students, faculty and staff all working toward the same goal of making an impact on the world. Interested in visiting campus? We'd love to have you. Whether it's attending a class, connecting with admissions staff via an in-person or virtual information session, or attending a workshop or speaker series, we welcome you to experience all the LBJ School has to offer. LBJ Admissions Team Blog: A guide to the admissions process for the LBJ School of Public Affairs at The University of Texas at Austin. See what MPAff student Irving Calderon had to say about how Open House answered his questions and convinced him LBJ was the right choice. Check out our webinars for prospective students Contact the Office of Student Affairs and Admissions We'd love to arrange a virtual meeting with you, either through one of our Information Sessions or via a 1:1 Zoom. Please email us at lbjadmit@austin.utexas.edu to arrange or see the Information Session registration link below. Attend an Information Session or Student Admissions Chat Our Office of Student Affairs and Admissions offers virtual and in-person Information Sessions. This is a great way to meet admissions staff, learn all about the programs we offer and learn how to submit a strong application. Information Session Sept. 9, 2021 12:30—1:30 p.m. CT Register Information Session Sept. 30, 2021 12:30–1:30 p.m. CT Register Information Session Oct. 14, 2021 12:30–1:30 p.m. CT Register Student Admissions Chat Nov. 11, 2021 12:30–1:30 p.m. CT Register Information Session Dec. 2, 2021 12:30–1:30 p.m. CT Register Student Admissions Chat Jan. 13, 2022 12:30–1:30 p.m. CT Register Information Session—DC Concentration Jan. 27, 2022 12:30–1:30 p.m. CT Register Student Admissions Chat Feb. 17, 2022 12:30–1:30 p.m. CT Register Information Session March 10, 2022 12:30–1:30 p.m. CT Register Student Admissions Chat March 31, 2022 12:30–1:30 p.m. CT Register Information Session April 21, 2022 12:30–1:30 p.m. CT Register Register to schedule a virtual 1:1 appointment with one of our Graduate Admissions and Program Coordinators. Can't make it to one of our sessions? Sign up for one of our webinars or take a look through our archived webinar series. Meet the Faculty Graduate Advisors Our graduate faculty advisors are experts on all the LBJ School has to offer and would be happy to speak with you — and with students as well. Learn more about those advisors and how to contact them. Experience an LBJ School Class Sitting in on an actual LBJ class can be a great way to get a feel for the community and the program. Use the course schedule to find a course that interests you, and email its professor directly to set up a possible time. Attend an LBJ School Event The LBJ School offers many workshops, sessions and speaker series to the public. Check out our calendar of events to learn about upcoming opportunities. Also, visit the LBJ School YouTube channel for recordings of past events. Experience the UT Austin Campus Any good university educates its students. But a great university — one with monumental impact and a tradition of intellectual leadership — does more. It transforms lives on a grand scale. Or, as we like to say, what starts here changes the world. Find out more about UT Austin Learn about life at the Forty Acres Schedule a campuswide tour How to Apply Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff) DC Concentration (MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Executive Master in Public Leadership Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Visitor Resources View our 360º Tour LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022