Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School 2022 PPIA Public Service Weekend: Emerging Public Policy Issues in Texas & the American South Friday, July 22, 2022 to Sunday, July 24, 2022 9:00am to 1:30pm LBJ School Add to Calendar iCalendar Outlook Google Yahoo Conference Details: Emerging Public Policy Issues in Texas & The American South (Download PDF) APPLY NOW Deadline: 5 p.m. CT on Tuesday, June 14, 2022 The PPIA Public Service Weekend is a three-day conference empowering undergraduate students from historically underrepresented backgrounds to consider graduate degree programs and careers in public service. Its primary goal is to introduce students to topics in the field of public policy through the lens of justice, equity, diversity and inclusion. The Public Policy and International Affairs Program (PPIA) is a not-for-profit that has been supporting efforts to increase diversity in public service for more than 40 years. Program Description This summer, the LBJ School is excited to welcome 30 rising college sophomores, juniors and seniors from across Texas, the South and the Southwest to learn about emerging public policy issues and solutions for the region that also have national implications. Throughout the weekend, undergraduate participants will focus on the evolving landscape of voting rights, civil rights, civic engagement, immigration, bipartisanship, and housing and affordability across Texas and the South. Participants will learn from leading policy professionals that range the profession, including distinguished academics, nonprofit professionals, policymakers from the field, and community activists — many of whom are LBJ alumni, professors of the LBJ School or currently affiliated with The University of Texas at Austin. Benefits to Participants Network with current LBJ students, LBJ alumni, PPIA alumni and other program participants as you consider graduate programs and careers in public service and public policy. Participate in interactive presentations and dialogues that focus on helping the next generation of changemakers bridge the polarization gap, including how to be influential in bipartisan and nonpartisan environments. Your voice is important in creating change! Learn the fundamentals of researching, writing and delivering effective, fact-based oral testimony. Programming Schedule The LBJ School's 2022 PPIA Public Service Weekend will be held 100% in-person. The LBJ School of Public Affairs is part of The University of Texas at Austin campus. Conference staff will monitor the community levels of COVID-19 in Austin and Travis County. A switch to virtual programing is not anticipated at this time. Required In-Person Programming Friday, July 22 – Arrive in Austin, Conference check-in between 9am & Noon CT Saturday, July 23 – All day programming Sunday, July 24 – Conference check-out at 1:30 p.m. CT Who Should Apply? Rising college sophomores, juniors, seniors and early-career professionals interested in public service and public policy graduate education and careers are strongly encouraged to apply. Students can apply regardless of undergraduate major or current field of study. Individuals with seen and unseen identities, or those with diverse lived experience, who have been historically underrepresented in public service. Students of color, first-generation college students and those that identify as LGBTQIA+ are strongly encouraged to apply. Preference will be given to individuals from Texas, the South (Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, the District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia) and the Southwest (Arizona, California, Colorado, California, Nevada, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Utah). Application Deadline: Tuesday, June 14, 2022 at 5 p.m. CT Interested students must provide the following information: Demographic information Current resume (.doc, or .pdf preferred) Unofficial copy of transcript from your undergraduate institution (.pdf preferred) Respond to the two essay questions listed below. What about your background or experiences has inspired you to explore a career in public policy or international affairs? Please answer in approximately 500 words. How do you envision your career path impacting the policy issues you are most interested in? Please answer in approximately 500 words. Travel Assistance: Students selected to participate in the LBJ School's PPIA Public Service Weekend are expected to participate in all three days of in-person programming at the LBJ School in Austin, Texas. Applicants will have the opportunity to request travel assistance as part of their application to facilitate their participation in the conference. Housing Accommodations: Students selected to participate in the LBJ School's PPIA Public Service weekend will be provided free on-campus housing and meals at The University of Texas at Austin. Contact Us: For additional information or questions, please reach out to Estevan Daniel Delgado, Director for Justice, Equity, Diversity & inclusion at the LBJ School. The LBJ School's 2022 PPIA Public Service Weekend is co-sponsored by the Public Policy & International Affairs Program (PPIA) and the Network of Schools of Public Policy, Affairs, and Administration (NASPAA). LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022