Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School Student ExperienceStudent Organizations Sections Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Student Organizations Student Organizations Student organizations are a great way to get involved in the LBJ School and broader UT community. Graduate Public Affairs Council (GPAC) The Graduate Public Affairs Council (GPAC) is the university-recognized student government body of the LBJ School. GPAC's purpose is to serve the students of the LBJ community. GPAC facilitates student initiatives; fosters discussion and decision-making; and represents and engages in advocacy on behalf of students and their concerns. The Alexander Hamilton Society The Alexander Hamilton Society is an independent, nonpartisan, not-for-profit organization dedicated to promoting constructive debate on basic principles and contemporary issues in foreign, economic and national security policy. Each semester, AHS brings in numerous highly respected policy experts to discuss and debate foreign policy and global issues with UT professors. Alliance for Energy Policy (AEP) The Alliance for Energy Policy (AEP) seeks a multidisciplinary approach to meeting our energy needs. Energy presents one of the biggest policy challenges facing the United States, and an all-out effort is required to secure the future. Across the UT campus, AEP hosts and sponsors events to help all students plug into the energy revolution. Be it oil and gas exploration, nuclear energy, renewable energy research, energy efficiency or distributed generation, AEP seeks input from all important stakeholders in the energy field. The Baines Report The Baines Report is an approved LBJ student organization composed of and governed by students of the LBJ School of Public Affairs. The Report is dedicated to publishing student op-eds, blogs and media related to current policy. Criminal Justice Student Coalition (CJSC) The Criminal Justice Student Coalition is an organization dedicated to supporting graduate students from all corners of UT Austin with an interest in criminal justice issues and policy. We are an inclusive coalition that aims to unite students through opportunities to engage in justice-related research, service, and politics in Austin and nationwide. Feminist Policy Alliance (FPA) The Feminist Policy Alliance is an inclusive community for LBJ School students focusing on policy issues affecting women. FPA brings education and advocacy to the LBJ School, the University and the Austin community. Pride Policy Alliance The Pride Policy Alliance is an inclusive LGBTQIA+ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, Intersex and Asexual +) organization. We aim to increase the visibility of LGBTQIA+ issues at the LBJ School of Public Affairs, create community, and advocate for policies that advance equality at the LBJ School, UT and the greater Austin community. While focusing on the queer community, we welcome all to participate in our programming. PPA is a part of the UT Austin Gender and Sexuality Center Affiliate Program and organizes social, advocacy and educational events throughout the semester. Policy Alliance for Communities of Color (PACC) The mission of the Policy Alliance for Communities of Color (PACC) is to promote awareness and understanding of policy issues affecting communities of color by initiating dialogue, activities and programs within the LBJ School community. PACC's programming endeavors to reach out to the LBJ student body, the greater UT campus and the community of Austin. Social Policy Network of Students and Alumni (SPN) Reducing poverty and social and health inequities is a big reason many students enter public affairs, and why they specifically come to the LBJ School. The LBJ Social Policy Network (SPN) encourages all students and alumni whose interests and work intersect with the myriad of interconnected social policy issues to be a part of SPN and their sponsoring research center, the Center for Health and Social Policy (CHASP). Social policy includes issues related to: social mobility, public education, criminal justice, early childhood, child welfare, food insecurity, mental health, healthcare, aging and more. Technology and Innovation Policy Society (TIPS) Austin is a hub for technology, and UT has a history of supporting tech innovation. The Technology and Innovation Policy Society (TIPS) is for students interested in exploring how technology can be applied to public policy issues. TIPS works to connect students with faculty and professionals in tech policy through professional networking, speaker series and events in Austin. Activities include: dinner with tech policy professionals, technical workshops, campus/company visits, publishing of student work and interactive panels. Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022