Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School Faculty and ResearchFaculty Sections Faculty Centers Research and Publications Faculty of the LBJ School of Public Affairs Shaping the next generation of problem solvers. As a highly ranked public policy school in a Tier I research university, the LBJ School attracts nationally and internationally recognized scholars and experts across a range of major policy areas. They come from a wide range of disciplinary backgrounds: engineering, sociology, economics, history, geography and political science. Many have held senior positions as policymakers at the federal (CIA, Department of Defense, Congressional Research Service, White House, etc.), state and local levels. They lead research and dialogue on today’s most salient public policy and management issues. The majority of faculty members listed here have their primary home appointment in the LBJ School of Public Affairs, making them readily accessible to students and research collaborators. Explore faculty by Teaching Area Research Field Media Expertise Regular Affiliated Visiting / Adjunct Emeritus RegularAffiliatedVisiting / AdjunctEmeritus Gordon Abner Assistant Professor Abigail R.A. Aiken Associate Professor of Public Affairs; Fellow of the Richter Chair in Global Health Policy Jacqueline L. Angel Wilbur J. Cohen Professor of Health and Social Policy and Professor of Sociology R. Patrick Bixler Assistant Professor Joshua W. Busby Associate Professor of Public Affairs Michele Deitch Distinguished Senior Lecturer JR DeShazo Dean Edwin Dorn Professor of Public Affairs David J. Eaton Bess Harris Jones Centennial Professor of Natural Resource Policy Studies Mary F. Evans Professor of Public Affairs Raissa Fabregas Assistant Professor Kenneth S. Flamm Dean Rusk Chair, Professor of Public Affairs James K. Galbraith Lloyd M. Bentsen Jr. Chair in Government/Business Relations and Professor of Government Sergio I. Garcia-Rios Assistant Professor; Associate Director for Research, Center for the Study of Race and Democracy Sherri Greenberg Professor of Practice; Fellow of Max Sherman Chair in State and Local Government; Graduate Advisor, Master of Public Affairs Sheena Chestnut Greitens Associate Professor William Charles Inboden Executive Director and William Powers, Jr. Chair, Clements Center for National Security; Associate Professor of Public Affairs Peniel Joseph Associate Dean for Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion; Professor of Public Affairs; Barbara Jordan Chair in Ethics and Political Values; Founding Director, Center for the Study of Race and Democracy Alan J. Kuperman Associate Professor of Public Affairs Erin Lentz Associate Professor of Public Affairs 1 of 3 next › Faculty Centers Research and Publications Explore faculty by Teaching Area Research Field Media Expertise LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022