Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School Student Experience Sections Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Start your journey in a place that has it all. Be part of a community of mavericks ready to attack the next generation of policy challenges. Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Able to identify the best evidence-based solutions. Proficient in the latest analytical methods. Ready to facilitate difficult, sometimes painful, public conversations. Capable of leading public and nonprofit organizations through turbulent times. These are but a few of the competencies our students develop. Through case discussions, problem sets, internships, fieldwork, and experiential research with world-class faculty you will become proficient in the skills and knowledge produced by the policy-relevant social sciences and allied professional schools. But that is not all. You will become member of our diverse, esteemed and ever-expanding LBJ community of professionals committed to expanding prosperity, justice, equality and security. Over 50 years ago President Lyndon B. Johnson challenged us to build a great society. We’re excited to have you join us on this ongoing journey. JRDeShazo_sig_white_275x109.png JR DeShazo Dean, LBJ School of Public Affairs Academics Our curriculum is agile, geared toward a shifting global landscape and identifying new challenges as they emerge. 7:1 student-to-faculty ratio experience an intimate classroom learning environment 17 dual degree and 13 specialization options across MPAff and MGPS programs customize your degree to fit your interests 12 research centers explore different areas of policy study Year-long Policy Research Project apply new knowledge to a client-created complex issue 400-hour internship placement personalize your career path through real-world, hands-on research We Bring Policy to Life. This is a remarkable moment in public policy. Hear from our current LBJ faculty about what sets us apart. Watch Video Internships A Gateway to Diverse Policy Communities See Photos Explore past internships of LBJ grads Community Find powerful ideas, interesting people and lifelong connections. The University of Texas Explore the broader living and learning community of the Forty Acres Explore » Student Organizations Engage with an inclusive and spirited community through extracurricular activities Engage » Gone to Texas Experience the powerhouse of knowledge and culture that is UT Austin Watch Video Life in Austin Discover the creative, dynamic, entrepreneurial and unique city of Austin Find out more What’s Next? Your LBJ journey doesn't end at commencement. It's just beginning. Watch Video LBJ Graduates CAN and DO LBJ alumna Laura Huffman has exemplified the school’s values through her career in public service. The state director for the Nature Conservancy in Texas was named the 2016 recipient of the Alumni Distinguished Public Service Award. Watch Video LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022