Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School How to Apply Sections How to Apply Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff) DC Concentration (MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Executive Master in Public Leadership Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions How to Apply Are you ready to follow your passion, enrich your education, catapult your career and make a difference? Then join our community. Please select a program to learn more about the application process and requirements. Resources to help with your application process LBJ Admissions Team Blog: A guide to the admissions process for the LBJ School of Public Affairs at The University of Texas at Austin. See what MPAff student Irving Calderon had to say about how Open House answered his questions and convinced him LBJ was the right choice. Check out our webinars for prospective students Contact the Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Applicants are automatically considered for merit-based fellowships during the admissions review process as long as funds remain available. No additional application is required. Test Scores For the 2021–22 application cycle (Fall 2022 entry), the LBJ School is offering a one-time, temporary waiver of the GRE, due to the unique challenges brought on by COVID-19. The GRE is optional for this cycle only and applicants may submit a GRE score if they feel it will strengthen their application. Please email the LBJ Admissions Team at lbjadmit@austin.utexas.edu to let us know if you will be submitting a score. We do not accept the IELTS. Visit UT's website for more information about test scores. Why LBJ? MPAff Graduate Advisor Sherri Greenberg and MGPS Graduate Advisor Lorinc Redei on what makes their programs unique. Master of Public Affairs (MPAff)How to Apply Fall Application Deadlines: Priority Funding Deadline: Dec. 1 Final Deadline: March 15 Master of Global Policy Studies (MGPS)How to Apply Fall Application Deadlines: Priority Funding Deadline: Dec. 1 Final Deadline: March 15 DC Concentration (MPAff)How to Apply Fall Application Deadlines: Priority Funding Deadline: Dec. 1 Final Deadline: March 15 DC Concentration (MGPS)How to Apply Fall Application Deadlines: Priority Funding Deadline: Dec. 1 Final Deadline: March 15 Ready to submit your application? Applications for all LBJ School master's degree programs are now open. Take the next step. Find out more about how to get started today. Apply » The LBJ Student Experience Learn more about becoming a graduate student at the University of Texas at Austin. The University of Texas Graduate School How to Apply Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff) DC Concentration (MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Executive Master in Public Leadership Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Request More Information Loading... Connect With Us Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Team Location SRH 3.104 Phone 512-471-4292 Email: LBJadmit@austin.utexas.edu Request More Information Connect With Us Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Team Location SRH 3.104 Phone 512-471-4292 Email: LBJadmit@austin.utexas.edu LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022