Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School Degree Programs in the LBJ School of Public Affairs Sections Master of Public Affairs Dual Degrees with Public Affairs Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Master of Global Policy Studies Dual Degrees with Master of Global Policy Studies Specializations within Global Policy Studies Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Current Ph.D. Students Ph.D.s on the Job Market LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Join us. Leave ready to engage, lead and get it done. Location matters. Get to the core of policy challenges and craft solutions at the only policy school connected to a Tier I research university, a presidential library and a state capital, due north of the longest foreign border in the U.S. Master of Public Affairs The Master of Public Affairs program aims to prepare leaders with the knowledge and skills to address critical public policy challenges in city, state and federal government agencies, private businesses and nonprofit organizations. Drawing upon our world-renowned, multidisciplinary faculty, a global network of alumni and the resources of The University of Texas, our graduates are uniquely qualified to shape 21st-century public policy. Master of Global Policy Studies The Master of Global Policy Studies is a degree designed to offer a view of international policymaking that is both relevant and solution-based. Students benefit from rigorous, innovative and multidisciplinary coursework taught by faculty members who are preeminent voices in foreign policy and diplomacy, security, energy, economics, trade, environment and development. Graduates of the program are equipped to become leading professional policymakers and practitioners in today's global world. DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) This unique 15-month track within the MPAff and MGPS programs is designed to train future leaders for careers in the domestic or international policy arenas in Washington, DC. The program aims to better prepare students for the unique DC policy environment and transition them into the workforce a full semester earlier than traditional public policy programs—with a graduation in December of their second year of studies, rather than the following May. Master of Public Affairs Dual Degrees with Public Affairs Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Master of Global Policy Studies Dual Degrees with Master of Global Policy Studies Specializations within Global Policy Studies Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Current Ph.D. Students Ph.D.s on the Job Market LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program How to Apply Request More Information Loading... Request More Information LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022