Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School Master of Global Policy Studies Degree ProgramsMaster of Global Policy Studies Sections Master of Public Affairs Dual Degrees with Public Affairs Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Master of Global Policy Studies Dual Degrees with Master of Global Policy Studies Specializations within Global Policy Studies Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Current Ph.D. Students Ph.D.s on the Job Market LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Training professional policymakers for the global arena. A degree designed for the globalized world, offering an interdisciplinary and practical understanding of international policymaking. The Master of Global Policy Studies program provides the professional skills, applied academic training and effective networking to move students quickly into international careers. Through the combination of a rigorous, interdisciplinary core and a wide array of customizable specializations, we prepare our graduates for a variety of policy jobs in areas including national security, intelligence and diplomacy, international development, global governance and international law, energy, trade and global environmental policy. Graduate Advisor Lorinc Redei on what sets the MGPS program apart We Bring Policy to Life Core Program The core curriculum in global policy provides students with an interdisciplinary understanding of global policy issues, as well as a grounding in analytical and professional communication skills. Analytical Methods for Global Policy Studies Students are exposed to the core quantitative and qualitative techniques of research design and analysis widely used by professionals in the global policy environment. Microeconomics for Global Policy Studies Using contemporary examples, students learn about the principles of markets and market failure relevant to global policy studies and gain basic tools of economic analysis. The Nature of the International System Students are introduced to the systematic analysis of global affairs from the perspective of international relations theory and through the study of contemporary international problems. International Economics Students are exposed to frameworks for understanding the contemporary global economy, including the costs and benefits of trade in goods and services, technology diffusion and exchange rates. Policymaking in a Global Age Students learn to both analyze and implement policy through an exploration of the constraints and dilemmas faced by decision makers, from both a theoretical and practical viewpoint. Writing and Communication for Global Policy Students develop the written and oral communication skills necessary for policy professionals by focusing on various genres of writing and presenting that students may encounter in their careers. Global Policy Crisis Simulation Students role-play a set of global actors in a simulation of an international crisis, offering hands-on experience in negotiation, teamwork and crisis management. This is a one-credit course. Policy Research Project Students work in groups on a real-world problem under a faculty mentor, delivering a final research product to a client (topics vary year to year). This is a six-credit course. Internship Requirement All students are required to complete a 400-hour internship at a global policy-relevant organization of their own choosing. The LBJ School offers stipends to offset unpaid internships. Foreign Language Requirement All students are required to show advanced intermediate proficiency in a foreign language in order to graduate. This can be done via proof of four semesters of college-level language study, or by passing a placement exam at one of UT Austin's foreign language departments. Customize Your Degree With a plethora of courses cross-listed with other units on campus every semester, students have a great degree of flexibility in designing a program of study that meets their interests. All MGPS students supplement core requirements with at least 15 credits of courses taken toward a specialization of their choice and nine credits of freely chosen electives. Students may choose from a list of existing specializations or create their own, providing a uniquely flexible degree plan. These non-core courses can be taken at the LBJ School or at a number of other departments across the university. Students may further customize their degree by either enrolling in a dual-degree program or adding a portfolio program to their course of study. Specializations Dual Degrees Portfolio Programs MGPS Graduate Advisor Professor Lorinc Redei works personally with all MGPS students to define their academic plans and customize their degrees based on their personal career interests.Meet Professor Redei A community of doers with a lifelong connection A strong tradition of smart action. Viable solutions for society's challenges. Contributions to today's social dialogue. The LBJ experience puts you in the middle of it all. Experience a lifelong connection that begins now.Discover the LBJ experience Master of Public Affairs Dual Degrees with Public Affairs Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Master of Global Policy Studies Dual Degrees with Master of Global Policy Studies Specializations within Global Policy Studies Graduate Portfolio Programs LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Current Ph.D. Students Ph.D.s on the Job Market LBJ School Dean's Certificate Program Ready to learn more about the application process? Admissions Experience the LBJ School Request More Information Loading... Connect With Us Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Team Location SRH 3.104 Phone 512-471-4292 Email: LBJadmit@austin.utexas.edu Ready to learn more about the application process? Admissions Experience the LBJ School Request More Information Connect With Us Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Team Location SRH 3.104 Phone 512-471-4292 Email: LBJadmit@austin.utexas.edu Keep Exploring LBJ School Faculty UT Graduate School Tuition Information DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) How to Apply The LBJ Student Experience Plan Your Visit Contact Info Office of Student Affairs and Admissions Location SRH 3.104 Phone 512-471-4292 Email: lbjosaa@austin.utexas.edu LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022