Skip to main content UTexas Home Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development LBJ School of Public Affairs Search Search Apply Give Menu The University of Texas at Austin LBJ School of Public Affairs Alumni Current Students Justice, Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Events News Giving Professional Development Search Search Apply Give Degree Programs Expand Master of Public Affairs Master of Global Policy Studies DC Concentration (MPAff/MGPS) Ph.D. in Public Policy Admissions Expand How to Apply Tuition and Funding Experience the LBJ School Frequently Asked Questions Faculty and Research Expand Faculty Centers Research and Publications Student Experience Expand Facts & Figures The LBJ Advantage Policy Research Projects Student Organizations Career Management Expand Career Outcomes Internship Experience Recruit an LBJ Student Student Professional Development LBJ Women's Campaign School LBJ School celebrates the class of 2022 Sections LBJ celebrates the class of 2022 The LBJ School is thrilled to reconvene in person on May 21 to celebrate the resilience and accomplishments of the 51st class of LBJ graduates, who began their graduate school education online in the midst of a global pandemic. WATCH Graduation 2022 More than a degree: Class of '22 overcomes challenges, finds direction at the LBJ School The Celebration UT Commencement details — Everything you need to know about the UT Graduation at Darrell K Royal-Texas Memorial Stadium. LBJ Graduation details — Know before you go: Information on tickets, security, parking and accommodations for graduates and visitors with different abilities. Ambassador Vilma Martinez named 2022 graduation speaker at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs — The UT alumna and first woman to represent the United States as ambassador to Argentina (2009–13) will deliver the graduation address. Chelsi Chang (MPAff '22) chosen as student speaker — Chang is a graduating Master of Public Affairs student specializing in education policy and improving access to education for low-income, first generation, and/or students of color. #LBJGrad22: Bring Graduation to your social media feed — LBJ School community, friends and family: download these custom social media graphics to celebrate your grad! Use #LBJGrad22 and tag @TheLBJSchool on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Strike a pose: A guide to graduation photos at UT — Commemorate your time on the 40 Acres. After you hit the traditional campus spots, here are some other options — including some with special meaning for LBJ students. The Graduates The Graduating Class of 2022: Nina Nomura Nibling (MGPS '22) finds community, confidence and a passion for development — "I was very curious and wanted to learn many things about the world. Support from LBJ made me more confident, more responsible — and now I'm just really passionate about making change, and trying to find solutions for a lot of issues in the world." The Graduating Class of 2022: Derreck DaSilva (MPAff '22) discovers a new direction: from nursing to public policy — "The last two years have been so transformational for me. I was a clinician — I was a registered nurse. And now I'm a policy professional. ... I still get to exercise my passion for people, but on a different scale." The Graduating Class of 2022: Alyssa Goessler (MGPS/Middle Eastern Studies '22) finds her place in space policy — ""I think the LBJ school community just primed me to be open to new ideas, and that meant that when one day the idea of space policy crossed my path, I didn't close the door on it." LBJ School of Public Affairs Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Flickr LBJ Communications Calendar Contact Faculty & Staff Resources LBJ Legacy Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy (512) 471-3200 © The University of Texas at Austin 2022