retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content LBJ School of Public Affairs MENU FacebookFind us on Facebook flickrSee us on flickr InstagramSee us on Instagram TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube LinkedinFind us on Linkedin Search Search About Our Team Meet our 2022 class 2nd Cohort (2021) Inaugural Cohort (2020) News FAQ Apply Financial Aid Donate LBJ Women's Campaign School Dr. Victoria DeFrancesco Soto leads a conversation with a group of women at the LBJ Library LBJ Women's Campaign School The LBJ Women's Campaign School trains women to run for office or manage campaigns regardless of political party affiliation. We inspire women to enter the political arena, and empower them with the skills to win. Learn more about our program. We are proud to announce our third cohort — 65 women leaders representing a wide range of political ideologies, and have plans to run for state representative, judge, city council, school board and Congress, and to become campaign managers. Thanks to generous grants totaling $87,500 from Texas Woman's University Center of Women in Politics and Public Policy, 50 applicants from Texas are attending our third cohort tuition-free. Our next session begins April 29, 2022. For updates, please sign up for our newsletter. Are you ready to enter the political arena? What we're about Our goal: to raise the number of women in elected office and senior campaign staff positions, regardless of party. Learn more Your questions, answered What to expect from this multiday intensive training: How is it different from others? What experience is necessary? Find out Get ready to win We'll teach you how to run a successful campaign, with a clear vision and a plan to execute it. Ready to get started? Apply now The LBJ Women's Campaign School in the News 65 women leaders comprise LBJ Women's Campaign School incoming class March 22, 2022 Grant for LBJ Women’s Campaign School guarantees free tuition Feb. 18, 2022 8 LBJ Women's Campaign School alumni to run in upcoming elections Jan. 28, 2022 Tuition free for Texas women enrolled in UT campaign school Jan. 17, 2022 Why Joy Diaz is challenging Beto O'Rourke in the Democratic Primary for governor Jan. 14, 2022 From governor to city council: UT program helps 6 Texas women launch campaigns Jan. 13, 2022 Blog: Building a movement for women in politics Jan. 5, 2022 Waco attorney seeks District 56 House seat as Democrat Nov. 15, 2021 Four new people to join the Dallas City Council June 5, 2021 70 women comprise LBJ Women's Campaign School second incoming class April 14, 2021 Our Partners: FacebookFind us on Facebook flickrSee us on flickr InstagramSee us on Instagram TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube LinkedinFind us on Linkedin Subscribe to our newsletter UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022