Skip Navigation California State University, Fullerton Site Menu College of Humanities and Social Sciences Department of Liberal Studies Main Navigation ACADEMICS FACULTY STUDENTS ALUMNI ADVISING CONTACT US NEWS AND HEADLINES The Pasts and Futures of the Library Conference. March 11-12, 2022 Conference Information and Registration at: https://lbst.fullerton.edu/conference/ New state law (AB 130) allows a BA in Liberal Studies to fulfill the multiple subject matter competency requirement for admission to multiple subject credential programs! Prepare for the Foundational Level General Science Credential with a B.A. in Liberal Studies! Prepare for the Foundational Level Math Credential with a B.A. in Liberal Studies! Prepare for the Special Ed Credential with a B.A. in Liberal Studies! Earn General Education Credit with Liberal Studies Courses in Spring 2021! Apply for the $2,000 Jane Hipolito Memorial Scholarship for 2022! Apply for the Liberal Studies Student Scholarship 2022 Apply for the Liberal Studies Student Research Scholarship 2022 Welcome to Liberal Studies! Liberal Studies is an exciting and intellectually challenging interdisciplinary major that provides students with a unique opportunity to acquire and integrate knowledge from the humanities, arts, natural sciences, and social sciences. Our students become well-rounded persons, critical thinkers, culturally sensitive citizen, and creative problem solvers, who succeed in many careers: teachers (elementary, special ed, middle school), lawyers, managers, entrepreneurs, administrators in schools and government, non-profit organizers, etc (for a list click here!). Watch a video about our program! Click here to watch! At the heart of our education are the Liberal Studies Core Courses (30 units), which provide a thorough foundation in the arts & humanities, science, and social thought/science. In addition, students take one of two emphases (21 units). The Elementary Education Emphasis provides an excellent preparation for teaching diverse subjects in elementary schools and for being admitted to a multiple-subject teaching credential program. Under the Interdisciplinary Thematic Emphasis, students select a personalized set of courses devoted to the study of specific interdisciplinary themes, which can range from special education to pre-law to rock music. LIBERAL STUDIES COURSES THAT ADDRESS RACISM: LBST 101 Introduction to the Social Sciences with Prof. Patterson LBST 304 Liberal Studies in the Sciences with Prof. Garber or Prof. Patterson LBST 340 Food in the Social Sciences with Prof. Bullock LBST 485 Senior Seminar in Cultural Diversity with Prof. Patterson LBST 488 Senior Seminar in Environmental Studies with Prof. Patterson LBST 489 Senior Seminar in Gender Issues with Prof. Garber This site is maintained by Department of Liberal Studies. Last Published 4/8/22 To report problems or comments with this site, please contact stobias@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility CSUF is committed to ensuring equal accessibility to our users. Let us know about any accessibility problems you encounter using this website. We'll do our best to improve things and get you the information you need. Resources: Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Adobe Reader Download Word viewer, or download Excel viewer, or download PowerPoint viewer Microsoft Viewers Report An ATI Issue Accessible @ CSUF Version_4.8.1 This page uses javascript to help render elements, if you have problems please enable javascript. This page uses accordion styles which rely on javascript. You do not have javascript enabled, some functions will be disabled.