Skip to Content Penn LDI Fellows Toggle Fellows Menu Fellows Directory Fellows Resources Become an LDI Fellow Our Work Toggle Our Work Menu Focus Areas and Initiatives Research Updates In the Media Working Groups Events Education Toggle Education Menu Penn LDI Training Programs Affiliated Degree Programs About Us Toggle About Us Menu Welcome Letter Mission and History Staff Contact Us Partners Giving Fellows Fellows Directory Associate Fellow Kevin Jenkins, PhD Vice-Provost's Postdoctoral Fellow, School of Social Policy & Practice Visit Website kje@upenn.edu Kevin Ahmaad Jenkins, PhD is a dynamic speaker, author, scholar, a Lecturer at the University of Pennsylvania and a Core Investigator at the Center for Health Equity Research and Promotion (CHERP) at the Corporal Crescenz VA Medical Center in Philadelphia. Dr. Jenkins is appointed within the School of Nursing, the School of Social Policy & Practice. He is also the director of the Interpreting Attitudes toward Minorities in Medicine (I AM) Research Group. Dr. Jenkins, who is two-time award winner national journalist examines the influence of race, racism, and psychosocial stress within medicine. Dr. Jenkins leads research studies that analyze how stress lethally interacts with vascular-based diseases (e.g., heart disease, chronic kidney disease, and diabetes) and Alzheimer’s Disease in high-risk subgroups within the Black community. To best understand how racism makes people sick, Dr. Jenkins and his research team work with former professional football players, veterans, and people living with vascular-based diseases to create family-centered culturally sensitive and competent interventions. Related Content View More News Health Equity Exploring Racism’s Health Impact in a VA Renal Clinic Study by Penn LDI's Kevin Jenkins Provides New Insights Into Racism as Trauma By: Hoag Levins May 12, 2022 In The Media ABC News White Neighborhoods Have More Access to COVID-19 Testing Sites: ANALYSIS Interview Featured Fellow: Kevin Ahmaad Jenkins, PhD July 23, 2020 News Health Equity | Improving Care for Older Adults New Penn Research Center Focuses on Elder Health Care 5-Year P30 Grant Funds Recruitment and Development of Minority HSR Scientists By: Hoag Levins January 6, 2019 Blog Post Health Equity Novello Inspires Action at 2017 Penn Health Equity Symposium ‘No time for apathy or complacency’ By: Janet Weiner, PhD, MPH and Natasha Galperin March 21, 2017 Join Our Newsletter List! Get the latest Penn LDI news, research, events, and opportunities. Sign Up Penn LDI Colonial Penn Center, 3641 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104-6218 Email LDI Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Copyright P:215-898-5611F:215-898-0229 © 2022 University of Pennsylvania twitter linkedin rss Menu Fellows Fellows Fellows Directory Fellows Resources Become an LDI Fellow Our Work Our Work Focus Areas and Initiatives Research Updates In the Media Working Groups Events Education Education Penn LDI Training Programs Affiliated Degree Programs About Us About Us Welcome Letter Mission and History Staff Contact Us Partners Giving Search Search