Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School MenuToggle menu Leading Through Change Home Features Podcast Webinars & Presentations Research Press More Contact Us Giving Academics MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Recruitment & Partnerships Centers & Programs Current Students Faculty & Staff Newsroom Map and Directions Suggestions Data Science in Marketing Facebook principal scientist Shawndra Hill and Professor Olivier Toubia examine the past, present, and future of the role of data science in marketing. Topics Data & Business Analytics, Entrepreneurship & Innovation, Economics & Policy Published 12.09.2020 Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Shawndra Hill, a principal scientist at Facebook and a senior lecturer in the Marketing Division, joined Olivier Toubia, Glaubinger Professor of Business and Chair of the Marketing Division, for an in-depth discussion on the impact of data science on marketing. Hill, formerly a principal researcher at Microsoft, discussed the evolution of data science throughout her career and emphasized how the technology can be used to promote social good. Hill and Toubia also examined the ethical issues involved in data mining, including privacy and targeting concerns. More Webinars Data & Business Analytics Improving Healthcare During COVID-19 through Analytics How can we use data and models to predict trends, improve care, and better manage the spread of diseases? Read More Economics & Policy What Globalization Means to Me Gita Johar, the vice dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion and the Meyer Feldberg Professor of Business, offers her take on globalization. Read More Entrepreneurship & Innovation CBS Startup Stories: Wandering Bear Coffee Founders Matt Bachmann ’15 and Ben Gordon ’15 share lessons learned while building their multi–million-dollar company. Read More Economics & Policy, Social Impact, Entrepreneurship & Innovation The Path to Decarbonizing Energy Chazen Senior Scholar Geoffrey Heal speaks with Derek Brower of the Financial Times about the cost of transitioning to renewable energy. Read More Rise to the challenge. The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the world of business, while bringing historical inequities and injustice into sharp relief. Subscribe to Leading Through Change to receive the latest insights from Columbia Business School to help you navigate this unprecedented time. First Name Last Name Email Subscribe There was an error, please try again.Go Back Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Academics Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 3022 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100Maps and Directions Back to TopUpward arrow TOP © 2020 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements