Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Leadership Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Board of Trustees President Provost Presidential Search Provost Edward Feser Strategic Plan From the Provost Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Board of Trustees President Provost Presidential Search The leadership of Oregon State University is committed to making and implementing decisions through collaboration, shared governance, transparency, accountability and effective communication. OSU leaders at all levels—the Board of Trustees, president, provost, vice presidents, vice provosts, deans, Faculty Senators, heads and chairs, directors, ASOSU leaders, OSU Foundation and Alumni Association leadership, and others—strive to take innovative, creative and entrepreneurial actions that continually move the university toward realizing its vision as a leading land-grant research university. Mission As a land grant institution committed to teaching, research, and outreach and engagement, Oregon State University promotes economic, social, cultural, and environmental progress for the people of Oregon, the nation, and the world. We accomplish this by producing skilled graduates who are critical thinkers; searching actively for new knowledge and solutions; developing the next generation of scholars; collaborating with communities in Oregon and around the world; and maintaining a rigorous focus on academic excellence, particularly in three signature areas: the science of sustainable earth ecosystems, health and wellness, and economic prosperity and social progress. Vision Leadership among land grant universities in the integrated creation, sharing and application of knowledge for the betterment of humankind. We are distinct among all other universities in how we pursue our mission. In ways that are highly synergistic, we conduct basic and applied research, deliver undergraduate and graduate education, pursue innovation and economic development, and engage communities in mutual learning and problem-solving. Our research, teaching and engagement activities leverage and reinforce each other. In this way, we produce graduates, scholarship and solutions that achieve maximum positive impact on humanity’s greatest challenges. OSU’s leaders are guided by the university’s current strategic plan, SP4.0: Transformation, Excellence and Impact. COVID-19 Safety & Success Contact Info Oregon State University 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-1000 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer