Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Leadership » Office of Audit, Risk and Compliance Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search Board of Trustees President Provost Presidential Search Provost Edward Feser Strategic Plan From the Provost Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift Report Concerns - Hotline One way you can help promote an ethical culture at OSU is to report suspected wrongdoing or breaches of ethical conduct. The university has contracted with EthicsPoint, an independent, third party vendor, to provide a confidential and anonymous telephone and internet system for reporting any concerns. All reports made through this system will be reviewed by the Office of Audit, Risk and Compliance and then investigated by the appropriate office. Accountability and Integrity Hotline Report concerns Report concerns by phone: 1-855-388-4971 You may also make a report by email, telephone, US mail, campus mail or stop by in person: Campus Location: Office of Audit, Risk and Compliance, Oregon State University, Kerr Administration Building, 2nd Floor, Corvallis, OR 97331 Email: patricia.snopkowski@oregonstate.edu Phone: 541-737-0505 US Mail: Chief Audit, Risk and Compliance Executive, 240 Kerr Administration Building, Oregon State University, Corvallis, OR 97331 Campus mail: Office of Audit, Risk and Compliance, 240 KAd If you are concerned for the immediate safety of yourself or others, please dial 911. What is a reportable violation to the Accountability and Integrity Hotline*? The Accountability and Integrity Hotline can be used to report concerns in the following categories: academic and student affairs, accounting and financial, athletics, human resources, information technology, research, risk and safety, and concerns in other areas. Examples of violations include academic misconduct, conflicts of interest, misuse of university assets, theft of university property, unsafe working conditions, hostile work environment, data privacy, research misconduct, and other violations of laws, rules or regulations. If you have questions as to whether an action is reportable or not, please contact the Office of Audit, Risk and Compliance. *Complaints of harassment, bullying, discrimination, sexual misconduct, or related retaliation can be made directly to Equal Opportunity and Access (see the Where can I obtain additional resources section below for contact information). Complaints of this nature received through the Accountability and Integrity Hotline will be forwarded to Equal Opportunity and Access. How can I report a violation to the Accountability and Integrity Hotline? There are several methods for reporting suspected compliance and ethics violations. The Compliance and Ethics Web Form and toll-free Hotline are managed by EthicsPoint, an independent company, and are available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Reports submitted through the Web Form or Hotline are then forwarded to the appropriate university officials who will promptly address the allegations. If contact information is provided by the reporting party, he or she may be contacted for further information or may request updates on the investigation. Protection from Retaliation Your commitment to integrity and honesty is an important element in maintaining an ethical and secure workplace environment for everyone. Your help in calling attention to unethical or irregular practices is greatly appreciated. To encourage employees to report potential wrongdoing, it is against Oregon State policy for anyone associated with OSU to retaliate against those who report suspected wrongdoing in good faith. See Oregon Whistleblowers Protection Law (ORS 659A.199). Where can I obtain additional resources? **See the OSU Partners & Resources page ‹ Office of Audit, Risk and Compliance up Ethics › Accountabilty & Integrity Hotline Office of Audit, Risk and Compliance Report Concerns - Hotline Ethics External Audits Internal Audit Process Risk (Enterprise) Compliance Staff Charter Tools & Training OSU Partners & Resources Latest from OARC Code of Ethics Message - 1/27/2021 Contact Info Oregon State University 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-1000 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer