Skip to main content Main navigation Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Search CALS Main Menu DiscoverCals Search CALS Search Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Main navigation Education Research Outreach & Extension Diversity & Inclusion About DiscoverCALS Close Main Menu Main navigation Panels Back Education Education Overview Admissions Degrees & Programs CALS Experience Schools & Departments Our Education Impact Back Research Research Overview Research Areas Our Experts Student Research Our Research Impact Back Outreach & Extension Outreach & Extension Overview On Campus & In Your County Our Extension Impact Back Diversity & Inclusion Overview News & Events Resources Mentorship Fieldwork Diversity & Inclusion Committee Department and Unit Efforts Dean’s Inclusive Excellence Seminar Series Back About About Overview College Leadership Our Values & Impact Newsroom Our Locations Contact Us Back Discover CALS See how our current work and research is bringing new thinking and new solutions to some of today's biggest challenges. Agriculture Animals Applied Economics Biology Climate Change Communication Environment Food Global Development Health + Nutrition Plants Breadcrumb Home Education Degrees & Programs Leadership Minor Leadership Minor Learn to lead with Cornell University's Leadership Minor! Do you have a passion to lead—both now as a student and when you enter the workforce? Do you want to identify and grow your strengths so that you can develop better professional skills? Do you want to learn and use the tools you’ll need to develop mutual trust and respect to build and lead diverse teams? Do you seek to understand the complexities and impact of engaging with communities of people within and outside the university? No matter your major or your college, the Cornell Leadership Minor will help you explore these facets, grow self-awareness, and help you uncover the linkages between how you and others live, work and lead. You will become a more actively engaged, reflective and effective citizen with a deeper understanding of the complexities, dynamics and interdependencies of life. You’ll develop the specific professional skills employers say college graduates lack. The Leadership Minor features new courses and integrates existing courses with community activities and co-curricular experiences in a guided pathway that will help you develop the skills necessary to become a true leader and engage with diverse communities. In a nutshell, this pathway requires completion of 11 to 18 credit hours spread out over four tiers of learning, including completion of an ePortfolio. View course options and learning outcomes for the four tiers and the ePortfolio requirement in the accordion below: Declare the Leadership Minor Curriculum Tier 1: Leadership Essentials (1 to 3 credits) If you are a student without any previous leadership courses, you can select from a number of introductory leadership courses or participate in an approved leadership development program to meet Tier 1 requirements. The foundations of these courses include self-awareness, personal development, self-management, career planning, networking, and exploration of community engagement. There are four ways in which you can fulfill the requirements of this introductory tier: an in-major or cross-college course, a co-curricular activity, or a previous leadership course. 1 to 3 credits 1. In-Major Course Currently a version of this course is offered in three CALS majors: AEM 1700, Foundations of Leadership Development (1 credit, fall or spring) AGSCI 1125, Guided Explorations: Growing You and Your Path in the Agricultural Sciences (1 credit, fall) FDSC 1102, Leadership and Career Skills in Food Science (2 credits, spring) 2. Cross-College Course Since the above courses are open only to students in those majors, the CALS Leadership Minor will also accept the following courses as satisfying the Tier 1 Leadership Essentials requirement: ALS 2000, Leadership for Sustainability (3 credits, spring) ALS 2200, Make Your Mark: Essential Professional Skills to Launch Your Career (1 credit, spring) EDUC 2610, The Intergroup Dialogue Project (3 credits, fall or spring) HADM 1150, Organizational Behavior and Leadership Skills (3 credits, fall or spring) ILROB 1220, Introduction to Organizational Behavior (3 credits, fall, spring or summer) LEAD 2020, Greek Leadership Academy (1 credit, fall or spring) MILS 1102, Foundations in Leadership (1 credit, spring) 3. Co-Curricular Activity: LEAD 1960, Leadership Training Practicum This introductory course is limited to students in the Leadership Minor who are involved in formal training provided by the Office of Engaged Initiatives (Stage 1 activity for Certificate in Engaged Leadership plus retreat), Public Service Center, Greek leadership, Cornell Outdoor Education, or other approved program. Topics covered in the approved program should include: Reflection on what it means to be a leader; various models/styles of leadership; assessing personal strengths and weaknesses; team building and group values; motivation and engagement; managing conflict; and leading with authenticity and a personal leadership philosophy. Approximately 15 hours of formal classroom instruction is equivalent to one credit hour. 4. Previous Leadership Course Once you have completed a leadership course or professional development program, you are eligible for Tier 2: Foundations in Leadership. If you take a course found on the Tier 3 Electives list first, you can substitute that course for the Tier 1 course requirement. However, you will still need to complete at least 6 additional credits of coursework from the Tier 3 list to satisfy the Tier 3 requirement. Learning Outcomes By successfully completing this requirement, students will: Examine campus support services available to support learning, career planning, stress management, etc. Become self-aware through analyzing personal style, and assessing personal strengths, weaknesses, and motivations Be able to practice critical reflection and apply it to learning from experience Examine possible courses of study, career options, service learning and community engagement opportunities, and how theses align with personal affinities Demonstrate basic study skills for setting priorities, time management, and stress relief. Employ career prep skills including resume writing, conducting job interviews, business etiquette, and networking Initiate their e-leadership portfolio, which will be used throughout the minor Apply basic leadership skills of conflict resolution, ethics, appreciating diversity, working effectively in teams Tier 2: Foundations in Leadership (LEAD 3100, 3 credits) Fall or Spring, 3 credits In this course you’ll do an in-depth investigation into your personal mastery and the development of your reflective self along with a broad introduction to leadership theories, skills, and practices as they apply to interpersonal influence, conflict resolution, working in teams, leading systems change, and community engagement. The course is required for the minor. It begins with the inner work of leaders of becoming reflective practitioners of personal development but then turns to the outer work of leaders working effectively with others, in organizational systems and in teams. Learning Outcomes By successfully completing this course, students will: Develop a critical understanding of contemporary leadership theories, styles, approaches and roles. Examine and clarify personal inspirations, values, and purposes in careers and life. Learn to align those inner motivations with personal actions, decisions, and communications in order to become more authentic, effective, and influential. Build skills for communicating effectively, especially in difficult conversations such as delivering feedback, resolving conflict, and influencing others. Practice skills for building effective teams and leading group planning, decision making and problem solving processes. Create a personal learning plan and leadership portfolio for supporting personal development. Establish a habit of reflection to promote continuous learning and effective leadership. Tier 3: Leadership Electives (6+ credits) From the list below, complete at least six credits of leadership-related courses that interest you. These courses will help you to deepen your knowledge on specific topics such as organizational behavior, ethics, diversity and inclusion, negotiation, conflict resolution, decision making, sustainability, and communications, and to understand the broad contexts in which leaders operate. If you use a Tier 3 course for your Tier 1 requirement, you will need to take an additional 6 credits of coursework from the list below to satisfy Tier 3. Minimum of 6 credits Learning Outcomes By successfully completing additional elective courses from the approved list of offerings, students will: Examine in depth, critically evaluate, master and apply one or two of the specific skills identified in the learning outcomes of Tiers 1 and 2, including: Self-reflection and self-understanding – thinking about thinking Learning from experience – becoming a reflective practitioner of personal effectiveness Conflict resolution and dialogue – creating two-way meaning in overcoming differences Interpersonal power and influence Ethics Decision making – collaborative tools and overcoming biases Leading teams Leading organizations and change – building empowered cultures Diversity, inclusion, inter-cultural competence Strategic thinking Special topics in leadership – public service, women in leadership, leadership in sports, Greek leadership etc. Demonstrate an appreciation for the various contexts of leadership in which informed decisions must be made. This includes topics of environmental sustainability, global thinking, and socioeconomic trends. Elective Leadership Courses from across the University Course code Course title Credits Semester AEM 3245 Organizational Behavior 3 fall AEM 3320 Leadership and Management in Sports 3 fall AEM 4000 Grand Challenges Project 3 fall, spring AEM 4700 Dyson Leadership Development Program 1 fall, spring AIRS 3301 Air Force Leadership Studies I 3 fall AIRS 3302 Air Force Leadership Studies II 3 spring AIRS 3341 Junior Officer Leadership Experiences I 1 fall AIRS 3342 Junior Officer Leadership Experiences II 1 spring AIRS 4441 Advanced Leadership Experiences 1 fall ALS 3200/3210 Leadership and Global Service Learning: Pre- and Post-Summer Fieldwork 1 fall, spring ASRC 3206/ENGL 3606/FGSS 3206 Black Women and Political Leadership 3 fall BSOC 2061/PHIL 2960/STS 2061 Ethics and the Environment 4 spring COMM 3100 Decision Making in Groups 3 spring COMM 3150 Organizational Communication: Theory and Practice 3 fall COMM 4350 Communicating Leadership and Ethics 3 fall DEA 4040 Professional Practices and Ethics 1.5 spring EDUC 2200 Intro to Adult Learning 4 fall, spring EDUC 2210 Designing and Facilitating Learning for Development 4 spring EDUC 2610 The Intergroup Dialogue Project 3 fall, spring EDUC 3350 Youth Organization Leadership Development 3 fall EDUC 3920 Community Centered Leadership Development 3 spring EDUC 4826 Leading Dialogue Across Difference: Practicum in Intergroup Relations 4 fall, spring ENTOM 3350 Naturalist Outreach Practicum 4 fall GOVT 3128 America's Changing Faces 1 summer HADM 2170 Hotel Leadership Development Program 2 spring (weeks 1-7) HADM 3650 Persuasive Business Communication for Hospitality Leaders 3 fall, spring HADM 4110 Negotiations in the Hospitality Industry 3 fall, spring HADM 4150 Practical Leadership: Foundations for a Career 1 spring HADM 4835 Leading and Managing Teams 3 fall HD 3450 The Nature of Leadership 3 fall ILRHR 4603 Work Groups and Teams 4 fall or spring ILRID 4675 Inclusive Leadership 2 spring (weeks 7-14) ILRLR 2040 Introduction to Conflict Resolution and Negotiation 3 spring ILRLR 3057 Environmental Mediation and Negotiation 2 fall (weeks 1-7) ILRLR 4012 Managing and Resolving Conflict 4 fall or spring ILRLR 4027 Campus Mediation Practicum 3 fall, spring ILRLR 4820 Ethics at Work 4 fall or spring ILROB 2230 Leadership in Organizations 3 spring ILROB 4230 Leadership in Organizations 2 spring (weeks 1-7) INFO 4430 Teams and Technology 3 fall MILS 2201 Individual Leadership Studies Teamwork 1 spring MILS 3301 Leadership and Problem Solving 2 fall MILS 3302 Leadership and Ethics 2 spring MILS 4401 Leadership and Management 2 fall MILS 4402 Officership 2 spring NAVS 2201 Leadership and Management 3 fall NAVS 4402 Leadership and Ethics 3 spring PLHRT 4975 Hortus Forum Leadership Development 1-2 fall, spring PLSCI 4975 Leadership through Peer Mentoring in the Plant Sciences 1-2 fall, spring Tier 4: Experiential Capstone (1 to 3 credits) In Tier 4, you’ll apply the leadership and academic skills and knowledge you’ve acquired so far through a community engagement experience under the direction of a mentor. You can begin this engaged learning experience at any point. Your experience will include establishing personal development goals, reflecting on challenges you face and feedback you receive, identifying ongoing personal development needs, and reflecting on attitudes and lessons you learned by engaging in the community. If you pursue this opportunity during the school year, you can receive up to three credits for this experience. If you pursue an internship or other opportunity over the summer, you can earn one credit for the experience during the fall semester by summarizing and reflecting on your work in a way that meets with the approval of your leadership advisor. This, in turn, can be added to your ePortfolio. Capstone Experience A capstone experience is one in which you are in a position to lead a group of people to accomplish a certain goal over an extended period of time, such as a semester or over the summer. For the Leadership Minor, we ask that you participate in a capstone experience, either as part of a class or of your own design, after most of your leadership coursework is complete. Students completing the Certificate of Engaged Leadership and Dyson Fellows program will complete a capstone experience with an ePortfolio as part of their respective programs. Examples of appropriate roles in which you can serve in an extended leadership capacity include captain of a sports team, community volunteer, residential life leader, officer in a club, fraternity or sorority, etc. If you are not sure whether an experience you have participated in is sufficient for your capstone requirement, contact ljv4 [at] cornell.edu (Dr. Lawrence Van De Valk) or mpp3 [at] cornell.edu (Dr. Marvin Pritts). Before you begin the capstone experience: Send a description to your faculty advisor in te Leadership Minor, with a copy to the lcc2 [at] cornell.edu (minor program coordinator), of what you plan to do and identify two or three learning outcomes related to leadership that you want to achieve during the experience. Design your capstone experience so that at the end, you will be able to respond to the prompts found in this LEAD Capstone Rubric. Identify a mentor/coach (not a student) who can help you if you need someone to bounce ideas off of or consult for advice, and who can vouch for the experience that you had. After the capstone experience: Enroll in LEAD 4925. Complete the “Capstone Experience” segment of your ePortfolio in Digication. Upload any remaining content into your Digication ePortfolio. Get feedback from your leadership advisor on your ePortfolio. Your advisor may ask for changes in the ePortfolio so it can be improved. This should be an iterative process. 1 to 3 credits Curricular Option There are many options for completing your Tier 4 requirements. Your leadership experience might be through a course that already has an embedded leadership capstone experience, plus LEAD 4925. Co-Curricular Option Another option is to do your leadership experience through a pre-approved program such as the Intergroup Dialogue Project (IDP), the Certificate of Engaged Leadership or Cornell Outdoor Education, plus LEAD 4925. Cornell’s Public Service Center is another resource you can tap to help you find a leadership opportunity and mentor. Other opportunities could be through the Greek system, athletics, or campus clubs. The capstone experience should be designed with a member of the faculty or staff who will directly supervise your experience and be pre-approved by the director of the leadership minor. It is possible to receive one academic credit for the capstone experience (LEAD 4970 – Undergraduate Experience in Leadership) if it occurs during the academic year, it is a structured experience with regular meetings with your mentor, and you spend at least 45 hours in the experience. To get academic credit for the capstone experience, you must fill out a Special Studies form (in addition to the capstone experience proposal described above) and describe in detail what you will be doing. Contact the director of the leadership minor for assistance in filling out the special studies form. Please note that it is not a requirement to enroll in LEAD 4970. Most students identify and participate in a capstone experience without receiving academic credit since these experiences are often less structured. Extracurricular Option Applying your leadership skills outside of Cornell is an excellent way to engage with communities in the Ithaca area, perhaps in your hometown, or even abroad. Planning an extracurricular leadership experience is encouraged, but requires more planning than one within a university context. If you want to have an extracurricular experience count towards your minor requirement, then you will need to have a plan endorsed by your host organization, a member of the faculty or staff who will directly supervise your experience, and the director of the leadership minor before beginning the experience. Such a plan should include the Tier 4 requirements below. If you want to receive academic credit for this experience during the academic year, enroll in LEAD 4970 (Undergraduate Experience in Leadership). Every 45 hours outside of the classroom is equivalent to one credit hour. You will also complete LEAD 4925. Certificate Option Students have the option to complete the Tier 4 requirement for a capstone experience by completing the leadership certificate program through Engaged Cornell. Tier 4 requirements include: A personal statement of your learning outcomes, leadership philosophy, and principles of community engagement intended for the experience. Feedback from peers and others on your performance in the experience based on that statement. Your personal reflections on the lessons you’ve learned. Professional coaching to approve, support, and monitor the experience. LEAD 4925 or the equivalent, such as completing an ePortfolio in another course. Learning Outcomes At the conclusion of the leadership minor, students will: Demonstrate independence and leadership in applying any of the above learning outcomes – especially those related to reflective practice, ethical issues, team engagement, and conflict resolution as well as those developed in other academic disciplines – in an experiential community engagement endeavor. Demonstrate a commitment to service and sense of responsibility for the greater good. Submit an e-leadership portfolio that includes summaries of their Leadership philosophy including a personal definition of leadership and mission, vision, values. Personal leadership development goals and a reflective assessment of progress made Feedback from all assessments and the lessons learned from them. Leadership development experiences pursued through the minor and the lessons learned. Personal reflections on who they are, and how they show up in work and life. Engagement experience and how that contributed to their development. ePortfolio (LEAD 4925) 1 credit In your final semester at Cornell or when you are ready to complete the minor, you will enroll in LEAD 4925, Leadership Portfolio (1 credit, fall, spring). This requirement involves creating a digital portfolio–also called an ePortfolio–on the Digication platform. The template for the required content can be found on the Cornell’s Digication website. This will be a guided summary and reflection on your leadership experiences in each of the four tiers, particularly your experience outside of the classroom. You’ll use the ePortfolio to capture key critical reflections at multiple points during your journey. You will receive assistance and information on how to set up your ePortfolio upon being admitted into the minor. Below are examples of excellent ePortfolios created by recent graduates in the Leadership Minor: Marlène Boissonnault Finley Frechette Emma Moulton Alicia O’Neil Olive Onyekwelu You can access the Digication platform using your regular Cornell credentials. When you are ready to create your ePortfolio, we encourage you to consult this how-to guide, put together by a Dyson student, on navigating the Digication system. If you already have an ePortfolio as part of your major or another class, then you can add a tab that encompasses your leadership experiences so you have to maintain only one ePortfolio. You must satisfactorily meet the requirements of the ePortfolio to complete the Leadership Minor. Critical Reflection Your ePortfolio should capture your reflections on your leadership through the lens of your capstone experience. The ePortfolio provides prompts to help guide your reflections, which in turn will examine your assumptions about others and document your personal development during your capstone experience. Declare the Leadership Minor! If you are interested in pursuing the Leadership Minor, please submit a declaration of intent. Acceptance to the minor is automatic. If you complete the form, the minor will be listed on your internal academic record. Once you graduate and a program audit confirms you completed the minor, your academic record will be updated to reflect that. There is no penalty if you do not complete the minor. As a Leadership Minor candidate, you will develop an ePortfolio on the Digication platform. You should begin your ePortfolio no later than Tier 2 (LEAD 3100). More information about the ePortfolio, a required component of the minor, can be found In the ePortfolio (LEAD 4925) section above. Declare the Leadership Minor! Contact us! For questions regarding course curriculum, requirements, or enrollment in the leadership minor, contact: lm747 [at] cornell.edu (Lynn Morris), program coordinator Or one of our two faculty advisors: ljv4 [at] cornell.edu (Dr. Lawrence Van De Valk) %20mpp3 [at] cornell.edu (Dr. Marvin Pritts) Declare the Leadership Minor! FAQ Do I need to be a student in CALS to be eligible for the leadership minor? No, any undergraduate student at Cornell University is eligible to complete the leadership minor. What courses do I need to take to fulfill the minor? See the Curriculum accordion above to learn about course and experiential learning requirements. How do I get into the leadership minor? To become a candidate for the Leadership Minor, complete the online Declaration of Intent form (click on the big red button at the top of the page). Upon receiving your completed form, the program coordinator will let you know who your faculty advisor is for the program. You should set up a meeting with your advisor to discuss your course plan and capstone project. How late in my undergraduate career can I add the minor? It is best to plan for the minor during your freshman or sophomore year. Enrolling in the minor later may be possible if you have taken LEAD 3100 and at least one other leadership course. Get in touch with the program coordinator to discuss the feasibility of your course plan. How do I get a leadership minor advisor? After submitting your Declaration of Intent form, you will receive confirmation and be assigned a faculty advisor for the minor -- ljv4 [at] cornell.edu (Dr. Lawrence Van De Valk) or Dr. Marvin Pritts. After assignment, you should set up a meeting to discuss your capstone project and any other questions you have about the minor. How do I sign up for my ePortfolio? Visit the Digication Website and login with your Cornell netid. Consult the How-to Guide to get started. When should my ePortfolio begin and end? The ePortfolio can begin as soon as you are a candidate in the minor. Ideally, it should be a work in progress throughout your development as a leader at Cornell. LEAD 4925 should be taken after the capstone and other requirements are completed, typically during a student’s senior year. This course gives you credit for completing the ePortfolio. However, your ePortfolio will stay with you and can be updated even after you graduate. Who is on the Leadership Minor Advisory Council Amy Somchanhmavong, Associate Director, Service-Learning and Partnership, ayk3 [at] cornell.edu As Associate Director of Community Service-Learning and Partnership Amy has dedicated herself to purposeful work that produces lasting impact. Amy's programs encompass student-centered programs such as the Public Service Scholars, to faculty engaged scholarship via action research in teaching and practice, to delivering collective empowerment initiatives for improved community health and wellbeing. Most recently she launched the Patient Care Advocacy Team (PCAT) program in collaboration with Cayuga Medical Center and Cornell Career Services to expose students interested in the field of medicine to a direct service partnership with Cayuga Medical Center for what Amy refers to as a process of instilling and building a "culture of care” into healthcare for future practitioners. Annalisa Raymer, Director of CLASP, Community Learning and Service Partnership program, alr26 [at] cornell.edu Dr. Annalisa L. Raymer a lecturer in Adult, Community and Leadership Learning. She is also the interdisciplinary director of Cornell’s adult education program, the Community Learning + Service Partnership, CLASP. Her teaching and inquiry praxis focuses on effective democratic practices and processes to facilitate social learning, team intelligence and public-minded, purposeful leadership. Donna L. Haeger, Faculty Director of Dyson Leadership Development Program, dlh266 [at] cornell.edu Dr. Donna L. Haeger is a Professor of Practice in management and analytics and the director of leadership development in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences and the SC Johnson College of Business for the Dyson School. Her role as the faculty director is aimed at overseeing and expanding the Cornell Leadership Minor for Dyson students. Her PhD from Case Western Reserve University is in management and design. Donna has over 20 years of experience as a management professional working with people, process and technology. She is dedicated to “blending human systems” through engaged scholarship that will turn knowledge into action. She does this through community engagement, education, research, and publication in the fields of leadership, business analytics, organizational behavior and management. Her contributions relate the development of leadership programs focused on systems and design principles. Karel Hilversum, Associate Director of Cornell Outdoor Education, The Dan Tillemans director, Cornell Team & Leadership Center, khilversum [at] cornell.edu Karel comes to us from his native Puerto Rico where he has been designing and delivering challenge course programming, outdoor adventure education, and leadership workshops for 20 years. He has lead hundreds of team & leadership development programs to worldwide audiences. Karel holds a MS in Experiential Education and Educational Leadership from Minnesota State University at Mankato and is currently a PhD candidate in Organizational Leadership at the Chicago School of Professional Psychology. Karel's enthusiasm for this work, along with his experience in the field makes him an excellent addition to our Cornell Outdoor Education team. When not leading workshops, he enjoys volunteering in Scouting, adventure travel, and caving expeditions. Krista Saleet, Director, Student and Campus Life, ks2334 [at] cornell.edu Krista guides her team at the Public Service Center in engaging students in learning through service that produces students who are civically engaged and graduates who are active, global citizens. Krista is guided by 15+ years of experience in higher education administration at Colgate University, the University of Chicago, Dartmouth College, University of Massachusetts Amherst and Chatham College. Krista sits on the NASPA Public Policy Board and the NASPA Region II Executive Board. Krista's professional interests include the impact of civic engagement on student success outcomes, higher education-community partnerships and millennial community engagement. Krista holds a Bachelors of Urban Planning and Development from Ball State University and a Masters of Public Policy and International Affairs from the University of Pittsburgh. Lawrence Van De Valk, Senior Extension Associate, Executive Director of the Empire State Food and Agricultural Leadership Institute of New York, ljv4 [at] cornell.edu Larry is Executive Director of the Empire State Food and Agricultural Leadership Institute, or LEAD New York, a leadership development program for adult professionals in the food, agricultural and natural resource industries. Van De Valk is also a Senior Extension Associate in the Community and Regional Development Institute (CaRDI), part of the Department of Development Sociology at the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences at Cornell University. Larry earned a PhD in Adult and Extension Education, MA in Teaching and BS in Agricultural & Biological Engineering, all from Cornell, as well as an AAS in Forestry from Paul Smiths College. He has published several articles in refereed journals, and his research interests are in the areas of leadership development theory, program evaluation, and the social capital building effect of leadership development initiatives. Larry is the recipient of the State University of New York Chancellor’s Award for Excellence in Professional Service and the International Association of Programs for Agricultural Leaders Outstanding Leadership Program Director Award. Leah Cynara Cook, Plant Sciences Undergraduate Program and Leadership Minor Coordinator, lcc2 [at] cornell.edu Leah Cynara Cook joined CALS and the Department of Horticulture in 2010 as assistant to the chair and program coordinator for the Plant Sciences major. In 2014, her position transitioned to the School of Integrative Plant Science, where her role has expanded beyond the Plant Sciences major to include support for the school’s eight minors and, most recently, the college’s Leadership Minor. Leah relishes her work with undergraduates—the best part of her job is watching the undergraduates transform into mature, engaged and committed scholars and global citizens during their tenure at Cornell. She graduated from Cornell in 1993 with a B.A. in Classics and Philosophy. Marvin Pritts, Professor of Horticulture, Coordinator of Leadership Minor, mpp3 [at] cornell.edu Marvin’s goal as a professor with a teaching, extension and research appointment is to seamlessly integrate these three activities into one program that is scholarly, credible and relevant to the multiple audiences that benefit from my program. He strives to be a good communicator with many different audiences and intentionally seeks out audiences that range in age from preschool to adult and in expertise from novice to professional. Marvin also seeks to be broadly informed about the many issues that affect the food system so he can be a useful resource, and he is frequently asked to speak to Cornell alumni. He served as department chair for 13 years, played a major role in the merging of departments between the Geneva and Ithaca campuses, and helped create the School of Integrative Plant Science (SIPS). He currently serves as the Director of Undergraduate Studies in Plant Sciences and is the lead faculty advisor for the Leadership Minor. Mike Bishop, Director of Student Leadership of Office of Engagement Initiatives, bishop [at] cornell.edu Mike Bishop is director of student leadership, focusing on supporting students on their engaged leadership journeys mainly by supporting the vibrant network of leadership educators at Cornell and beyond. For the past twenty years Mike has helped young leaders connect their community engagement to academic scholarship, career exploration, and personal development. Passionate about experiential education, Mike has created leadership programming in varied settings that emphasizes service to the public good, democratic teaching, reflective dialogue, and peer mentoring. He views his work as strengthening democracy by providing emerging leaders with the tools to build healthy communities. Robert Gravani, Professor of Food Science, Director of the National Good Agricultural Practices Program, rbg2 [at] cornell.edu Bob is actively engaged in food safety extension/outreach activities with all sectors of the food system including production agriculture, food processing, food retailing, food service, regulatory training, consumer information, as well as food protection and defense (food biosecurity). In addition, he teaches or co-teaches three Food Science courses, is a Dining Discussion Faculty Fellow and maintains a small research program. Is there any paperwork I need to file after I’ve completed the program requirements to get the minor added to my academic record? There is no paperwork for you to file. After your grades are posted from your final semester at Cornell, we will conduct a program audit and notify your college registrar that the minor is complete and should be added to your academic record and transcript. Take your leadership skill to the next level: Undergrad-to-MPA Program Through the Complementary Cornell Undergrad-to-MPA Program, the Cornell Institute for Public Affairs (CIPA) currently has agreements in place with undergraduate and graduate programs here that allow students to apply up to 12 credits of applicable coursework (typically 4000-level and above) from one program to the other. Pursuing this option can reduce the time toward degree completion by approximately one semester. Explore this informative resource Pursue a mission-driven and impact-focused career and explore how an MPA can help you achieve your goals. An Educational Guide for Future Leaders in Public Affairs Preparing for the MPA Our admission team looks for students with a commitment to public service who have experience in a leadership capacity. To prepare yourself for admission to the MPA program, consider pursuing internship opportunities and student leadership roles that allow you to build your experience. Learn more about Undergrad-to-MPA If you are interested in pursuing this accelerated opportunity, please contact the CIPA Office at 607-255-8018 or cipa [at] cornell.edu to schedule an appointment. The Director of Graduate Studies will meet with you to review your transcripts and discuss a possible course of study with CIPA. This discussion would best occur in your sophomore or junior year to work out congruence between undergraduate and graduate studies. If you are currently a senior, it is not too late to apply but you should reach out to our office as soon as possible to begin the application process. Life. Changing. Visit CALS Explore Programs Diversity & Inclusion Support CALS Contact CALSLinks & Resources Information For Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty & Staff CALS Alumni NYS Residents Get Connected Newsroom Upcoming Events Media Relations CALS Directory Jobs at CALS Follow Us Facebook Instagram Twitter Youtube Footer menu Copyright Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Equal Education & Employment Land Acknowledgment Sustainability Commitment Emergency Information