Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School MenuToggle menu Leading Through Change Home Features Podcast Webinars & Presentations Research Press More Contact Us Giving Academics MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Recruitment & Partnerships Centers & Programs Current Students Faculty & Staff Newsroom Map and Directions Suggestions What Can Businesses Learn from Protesters? (Part 1 of 2) A look at the nature of protest itself. Topics Leadership, Strategy, Social Impact Published 07.23.2020 Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn In light of the conversation started by the Black Lives Matter movement, we’re starting a series of special edition podcasts focusing on how pro-equity social changes are affecting industries. For the first episode, we’re looking at the nature of protest itself. On the surface, it might seem that planning an effective protest and running a successful business might not have much in common. But according to Associate Professor Dan Wang, demonstration organizers often have the same skills seen in CEOs: planning, communication, consensus-building, resource mobilization, and ultimately, leadership. In this first half of a two-part episode, the newly tenured Wang, whose research was featured in a recent article in Ideas at Work, explains the similarities between businesses and protest movements and what they can learn from each other. Is there anything you would like to tell us about your experience listening to Bizcast? Please fill out our audience survey at: bit.ly/BizcastSurvey. Subscribe to Bizcast on iTunes, Spotify, Stitcher, or wherever you get your podcasts. Catch up on old episodes in the Bizcast archive. About the Researcher Dan WangDavid W. Zalaznick Associate Professor of Business, Management Division More from Bizcast Leadership Mission, Purpose, and Moon-Shooting with Vasiliki Petrou, Group CEO of Unilever Prestige "Moon shooting is the right way to push the business and the world to a better place than the one we're currently living in." Read More Social Impact Impact Investing and the Future of Flexible Capital How should investors start considering returns? Read More Strategy Turnaround: A Tale of Two Pandemic Case Studies Why did that company go bankrupt? Read More Leadership The Intersection of Business, Politics, and Society: A Conversation with Valerie Jarrett Part of the KPMG Peat Marwick/Stanley R. Klion Forum, hosted by the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Center for Leadership and Ethics Read More Rise to the challenge. The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the world of business, while bringing historical inequities and injustice into sharp relief. Subscribe to Leading Through Change to receive the latest insights from Columbia Business School to help you navigate this unprecedented time. First Name Last Name Email Subscribe There was an error, please try again.Go Back Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Academics Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 3022 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100Maps and Directions Back to TopUpward arrow TOP © 2020 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements