Skip to main content Leadership Senior Leadership University Statements Senior Leadership Senior Administration Officials Martha E. Pollack President Michael I. Kotlikoff Provost Augustine M.K. Choi Provost for Medical Affairs; Stephen and Suzanne Weiss Dean of Weill Cornell Medicine Donica Thomas Varner Vice President and General Counsel Avery August Vice Provost for Academic Affairs and Presidential Advisor for Diversity and Equity, Chair Frederick F. Burgess Vice President for Facilities and Campus Services Kelly E. Cunningham Chief of Staff and Special Counsel to the President Joanne M. DeStefano Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Emmanuel P. Giannelis Vice President for Research and Innovation David A. Lifka Vice President for Information Technology and Chief Information Officer Ryan T. Lombardi Vice President for Student and Campus Life Joel M. Malina Vice President for University Relations Kenneth M. Miranda Chief Investment Officer Aditya Misra University Auditor Mary G. Opperman Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer Christine Stallmann Chief Compliance Officer Laura E. Syer Vice President for Budget and Planning Fred Van Sickle Vice President for Alumni Affairs and Development Academic Leadership Lynden A. Archer Joseph Silbert Dean of the College of Engineering Kavita Bala Dean of the Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science Colleen L. Barry Dean of the Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy Gerald R. Beasley Carl A. Kroch University Librarian Kathryn J. Boor Dean of the Graduate School and Vice Provost for Graduate Education Alexander J. Colvin Kenneth F. Kahn Dean of the School of Industrial and Labor Relations Eve De Rosa Dean of Faculty Rachel E. Dunifon Rebecca Q. and James C. Morgan Dean of the College of Human Ecology Benjamin Z. Houlton Ronald P. Lynch Dean of the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Ray Jayawardhana Harold Tanner Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences Charles W. Jermy Interim Dean of the School of Continuing Education and Summer Sessions Andrew Karolyi Charles Field Knight Dean of the Cornell SC Johnson College of Business J. Gregory Morrisett Jack and Rilla Neafsey Dean and Vice Provost of Cornell Tech Mark W. Nelson Anne and Elmer Lindseth Dean of the Samuel Curtis Johnson Graduate School of Management Jens D. Ohlin Allan R. Tessler Dean of the Law School Kate M. Walsh Dean of the Peter and Stephanie Nolan School of Hotel Administration and E. M. Statler Professor of Hotel Administration Lorin D. Warnick Austin O. Hooey Dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine J. Meejin Yoon Gale and Ira Drukier Dean of the College of Architecture, Art, and Planning Jinhua Zhao Dean of the Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management Office of the Provost Avery August Vice Provost for Academic Affairs and Presidential Advisor for Diversity and Equity, Chair Kathryn J. Boor Dean of the Graduate School and Vice Provost for Graduate Education Jonathan R. Burdick Vice Provost for Enrollment Emmanuel P. Giannelis Vice President for Research and Innovation Gary A. Koretzky Vice Provost for Academic Integration Paul Krause Vice Provost for External Education Katherine A. McComas Vice Provost for Engagement and Land-Grant Affairs J. Gregory Morrisett Jack and Rilla Neafsey Dean and Vice Provost of Cornell Tech Lisa H. Nishii Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education John A. Siliciano Deputy Provost Julia Thom-Levy Vice Provost for Academic Innovation Wendy W. Wolford Vice Provost for International Affairs Office of the Provost for Medical Affairs Augustine M.K. Choi Provost for Medical Affairs; Stephen and Suzanne Weiss Dean of Weill Cornell Medicine Javaid I. Sheikh Dean, Weill Cornell Medical College-Qatar Barbara L. Hempstead Dean, Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences Stephen M. Cohen Executive Vice Provost, Administration and Finance Deborah Hodys Deputy General Counsel and Secretary of the Medical College Robert J. Min President and CEO, Physician Organization Katherine A. Hajjar Senior Associate Dean, Faculty Hugh C. Hemmings Jr. Senior Associate Dean, Research Yoon O. Kang Senior Associate Dean, Education Rainu Kaushal Senior Associate Dean, Clinical Research John P. Leonard Senior Associate Dean, Innovation and Initiatives Geraldine McGinty Senior Associate Dean, Clinical Affairs Michael G. Stewart Senior Associate Dean, International Affairs and Affiliations Adam R. Stracher Chief Medical Officer If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.