Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box Leadership » Office of the Provost Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Provost Edward Feser From the Provost Council of Deans Organizational Charts Reporting Units Senior Administrators Contact Inviting the Provost to an Event Office of the Provost Staff Requesting the Provost's Signature Resources Charges Events Collaborative Innovation Complex Executive Searches Faculty Excellence Faculty Handbook Policies and Guidelines University Budgeting Strategic Plan University Strategic Planning Provost Edward Feser Strategic Plan From the Provost Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Provost Edward Feser From the Provost Council of Deans Organizational Charts Reporting Units Senior Administrators Contact Inviting the Provost to an Event Office of the Provost Staff Requesting the Provost's Signature Resources Charges Events Collaborative Innovation Complex Executive Searches Faculty Excellence Faculty Handbook Policies and Guidelines University Budgeting Strategic Plan University Strategic Planning OSU University Distinguished Professors University Distinguished Professors make unique and highly impactful contributions to OSU, the nation, and the world through their scholarship, creative work, teaching and mentoring of undergraduate and graduate students. 2022 University Distinguished Professor Lectures Friday, may 20 | memorial union horizon room Advanced registration & in-person attendance are encouraged. All lectures will be recorded and live-streamed via live.oregonstate.edu. michaelfreitag_300.jpg Dr. Michael Freitag, 2022 University Distinguished Professor of Biochemistry and Biophysics epigenetics: i know it when i see it LECTURE RECORDING Dr. Michael Freitag is professor in the Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics in the College of Science. A fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Professor Freitag’s research in epigenetics has yielded significant discoveries in biology and human health and garnered more than $6 million in funding, including from the National Science Foundation, the American Cancer Society, and the National Institutes of Health. Dr. Freitag is an extraordinary mentor of undergraduate and graduate students and has been actively involved in the STEM Leaders program, which mentors first-generation and underrepresented students at OSU. kathryn_higley_300.jpg Dr. Kathryn Higley, 2022 University Distinguished Professor of Nuclear Science and Engineering bugs, bunnies, and bombs: radioecology's role in radiation protection LECTURE RECORDING Dr. Kathryn Higley is the Edward N. Rickert, Jr. Professor in the School of Nuclear Science and Engineering in the College of Engineering and the interim director of the Center for Quantitative Life Sciences. Dr. Higley co-developed the medical physics master’s program at Oregon Health and Science University and has built one of the few academic radioecology research labs in the nation. Her nationally recognized research in health physics and radioecology has been supported by over $14 million in competitively awarded funding since her arrival at Oregon State. Professor Higley previously served as the associate director of the TRACE-COVID-19 Project, which tracked the prevalence of the virus in communities across Oregon. brent_steel_300.jpg Dr. Brent Steel, 2022 University Distinguished Professor of Public Policy the democracy and technocracy quandary: science, scientists, and the policy process LECTURE RECORDING Dr. Brent Steel is professor and director of the Public Policy Graduate Program in the School of Public Policy, College of Liberal Arts. His research and teaching span the areas of international relations, comparative politics, public administration, and public policy. He has served as principal investigator on grants totaling more than $25 million, including from the National Science Foundation, the U.S. Department of State, and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. He has been instrumental in leading the development of doctoral and bachelor degrees in public policy, a graduate minor in rural studies, and a graduate certificate in energy policy, structuring the public policy program to create pipelines for diverse students to gain access to masters and doctoral degrees. University Distinguished Professors Contact Info Oregon State University 1500 SW Jefferson Way Corvallis, OR 97331 541-737-1000 Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Office of the Provost 624 Kerr Administration Building Corvallis, OR 97331 Email: osu.provost@oregonstate.edu 541-737-2111 Copyright ©2018 Oregon State University Disclaimer