Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School MenuToggle menu Contact Us Giving Academics MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Recruitment & Partnerships Centers & Programs Current Students Faculty & Staff Newsroom Map and Directions Suggestions Leading through Change The Latest 1 / 3 The Next Generation of Finance The Emerging Corporate Conscience Oil and Gas Majors May Be More Responsive to Pressure on Climate Than Widely Believed Leading Through Change Features Podcast Webinars & Presentations Research Press More Jump to main content More Stories Feature Educating a New Generation of Entrepreneurs Three questions for Lang Center Faculty Director Angela W. Lee Read more Feature Davos 2022 and the Climate Crisis: CBS Experts Weigh in on the World Economic Forum’s Priorities, Agenda Leaders must focus on implementing ideas, taking action, and making the transition to clean energy part of their core business strategy. Read more Feature Investment in Carbon Removal Technologies Just Hit an Inflection Point A panel at the 2022 Climate Conference underscores a dramatic revving up of demand for a technological niche. Read more Press How You Feel Depends on Where You Are Research from Sandra Matz shows that environment shapes our moods, potentially shedding light on the impact on individuals of months of isolation at home. The Wall Street Journal Press Stereotypes Harm Black Lives and Livelihoods, but Research Suggests Ways to Improve Things Modupe Akinola discusses her work on stereotyping, and how research can help us overcome our biases. Scientific American Press Levi’s Agrees to #Payup, as Advocates Demand More for Garment Workers The retailer is well-positioned to soften the blow dealt to garment workers by the pandemic, according to Urooj Khan. Forbes Press Do Americans Even Need A Second Stimulus Check? For those with the least savings, stimulus checks provided a vital source of liquidity, Michaela Pagel and R.A. Farrokhnia find. Forbes See all Features Latest Research The Information Mechanism in Corporate Citizenship: Evidence from COVID-19 Authors Lisa Liu, and Shirley Lu Date 02.09.2021 1 / 3 We explore firms' ability to collect, verify, and use information as a mechanism that facilitates the role of companies as powerful corporate citizens who can mitigate societal problems. Specifically, we study whether US firms' business networks with China and Italy are information networks and whether firms use relevant information to mitigate the negative impacts of COVID-19. We first show descriptive evidence that firms with these networks have relevant information about COVID-19. We then document higher stay-at-home ratios in areas with more information-exposure companies before local city governments impose measures, suggesting that firms act on relevant information to safeguard employee health. We find the effects are more pronounced when industries are teleworkable, when regulators have information constraints, and when the information is verifiable or trustworthy. Finally, we show a lower growth in COVID-19 in areas with higher stay-at-home ratios, suggesting a positive impact of firms’ corporate citizenship Read More Evidence That Investors Penalize Female Founders for Lack of Industry Fit Authors Damon Phillips, Dana Kanze, Mark Conley, Tyler Okimoto, and Jennifer Merluzzi Date 02.08.2021 2 / 3 Are female founding CEOs penalized when raising funds for their ventures based on industry served? Across an observational study conducted on ventures seeking funding (N = 392) and an experimental study conducted on investors allocating venture funding (N = 130), we find evidence for a “lack of fit” effect: Female-led ventures catering to male-dominated industries receive significantly less funding at significantly lower valuations than female-led ventures catering to female-dominated industries. In contrast, male-led ventures attain similar funding and valuation outcomes regardless of the gender dominance of the industries to which they cater. We confirm that this is because investors perceive lower degrees of fit between founding CEO and venture for female-led ventures catering to male- as opposed to female-dominated industries (with no perceived fit differences for male-led ventures across industries). Degree of investor sophistication emerges as a potential attenuating factor, appearing to help reduce gender bias from perceived lack of fit. Read More Deadlock on the Board Authors Giorgia Piacentino, Jason Roderick Donaldson, and Nadya Malenko Date 01.06.2021 Format Journal Article Journal Management Science 3 / 3 We develop a dynamic model of board decision-making akin to dynamic voting models in the political economy literature. We show a board could retain a policy all directors agree is worse than an available alternative. Thus, directors may retain a CEO they agree is bad—deadlocked boards lead to entrenched CEOs. We explore how to compose boards and appoint directors to mitigate deadlock. We find board diversity and long director tenure can exacerbate deadlock. We rationalize why CEOs and incumbent directors have power to appoint new directors: to avoid deadlock. Our model speaks to short-termism, staggered boards, and proxy access. Read More See all Research Latest Webinars & Presentations Type Webinar Date 05.03.21 Data & Business Analytics Improving Healthcare During COVID-19 through Analytics How can we use data and models to predict trends, improve care, and better manage the spread of diseases? Read More Type Webinar Date 04.20.21 Social Impact Business That Creates a Sustainable Future Which changes will be critical? Read More Type Webinar Date 04.20.21 Leadership The Value of Authenticity in our Professional and Personal Lives From Facebook to the boardroom, both corporations and individuals are called on to be our “authentic” selves, but what does authenticity really mean and why is it so powerful? Read More Type Webinar Date 02.12.21 The Workplace Increasing Connections With Others Professor Michael Slepian discusses his latest research on how to foster feelings of inclusion, belonging, and authenticity at the workplace and the world at large. Read More Type Webinar Date 02.10.21 Economics & Policy What Globalization Means to Me Gita Johar, the vice dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion and the Meyer Feldberg Professor of Business, offers her take on globalization. Read More See all Webinars Rise to the challenge. The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the world of business, while bringing historical inequities and injustice into sharp relief. Subscribe to Leading Through Change to receive the latest insights from Columbia Business School to help you navigate this unprecedented time. First Name Last Name Email Subscribe There was an error, please try again.Go Back Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Academics Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 3022 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100Maps and Directions Back to TopUpward arrow TOP © 2020 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements