Main Menu About Us ASUU Involvement Ambassadors Leadership Development Leadership While Virtual Meet the Team Recognized Student Organizations Student Leadership Summit Womens Leadership Summit Search Site Powered by the University of Utah Powered by Search Campus Student Leadership & Involvement Student Leadership & Involvement At the University of Utah Student Leadership & Involvement At the University of Utah Student Leadership & Involvement At the University of Utah Student Leadership & Involvement at the University of Utah Student Leadership & Involvement (SLI) serves students by providing leadership and involvement opportunities within the department and by connecting students to these types of opportunities on campus. Whether students are interested in starting or joining a Recognized Student Organization (RSO), participating in a Leadership Development program, or getting involved with the Associated Students of the University of Utah (ASUU), SLI is here to facilitate these important connections. SLI is a department within the division of Student Affairs at the University of Utah and is located in the “Student Involvement Wing” of the Union Building. Recognized Student Organizations There are over 550+ RSO’s on campus! These organizations are led by students and provide a fantastic involvement opportunity for students to find community, connection, and fun on campus. Whether a student is seeking long-term involvement or simply wants to participate in one or two RSO events, there are a wide variety of opportunities for students to explore! Learn More Leadership Development An important part of the college experience is leadership development. While SLI is here to connect students to varying leadership opportunities and roles on campus, we are also here to offer a variety of in-house tools to facilitate the development of leadership skills regardless of where students may be in their leadership development journey. These tools include but are not limited to conferences and summits, leadership podcasts, the leadership lounge, the leadership library, and online engagement tools. Learn More Associated Students of the University of Utah Student Leadership & Involvement is home to ASUU, or your campus student government. As a registered student, you are automatically a member of ASUU. It is up to you to determine how you want that membership to look! Whether you wish to attend an event, utilize resources and services, or pursue leadership roles within student government. This organizations strives to provide resources and services to students, provide funding to student organizations, host events and programs, advocate for students, and provide representation on University committees. ASUU works to be a powerful, representative, and inclusive voice of the student body. Learn More Connect With Us Visit our office 8:00am-5:00pm Monday-Friday. Student Leadership & Involvement 200 S. Central Campus Drive SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84112 801-581-7526 © 2022 THE UNIVERSITY OF UTAH Nondiscrimination & Accessibility Disclaimer Privacy Media Contacts