Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School MenuToggle menu Leading Through Change Home Features Podcast Webinars & Presentations Research Press More Contact Us Giving Academics MBA EMBA Master of Science Doctoral Undergraduate Concentration Predoctoral Research Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Recruitment & Partnerships Centers & Programs Current Students Faculty & Staff Newsroom Map and Directions Suggestions Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at Goldman Sachs: Erika Irish Brown '98 Brown shared some of the measures she’s put into place that address racial injustice and help move the organization toward a place of equity. Topics Leadership, Social Impact, The Workplace Published 08.27.2020 Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn On June 26, Gita Johar, Vice Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, spoke with Erika Irish Brown ‘98, Chief Diversity Officer at Goldman Sachs, about the firm’s internal response to the global protest and reckoning on anti-Black racism in the aftermath of the death of George Floyd. In their conversation, Brown shared some of the practical, actionable steps she’s put into place at Goldman Sachs that address racial injustice and help move the organization toward a place of equity. Brown discussed why it’s crucial to focus on systemic anti-Black racism; she emphasized the importance of storytelling during diversity education, which she said helps create meaningful and impactful dialogue. Is there anything you would like to tell us about your experience listening to Bizcast? Please fill out our audience survey at: bit.ly/BizcastSurvey. Subscribe to Bizcast on iTunes, Spotify, Stitcher, or wherever you get your podcasts. Catch up on old episodes in the Bizcast archive. More from Bizcast Leadership Mission, Purpose, and Moon-Shooting with Vasiliki Petrou, Group CEO of Unilever Prestige "Moon shooting is the right way to push the business and the world to a better place than the one we're currently living in." Read More Social Impact Impact Investing and the Future of Flexible Capital How should investors start considering returns? Read More The Workplace, Social Impact Inspiring and Exhausting: Reporting on Political Campaigns What is it like for a journalist to cover the final days of a political campaign, right before an election? Read More Leadership The Intersection of Business, Politics, and Society: A Conversation with Valerie Jarrett Part of the KPMG Peat Marwick/Stanley R. Klion Forum, hosted by the Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Center for Leadership and Ethics Read More Rise to the challenge. The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the world of business, while bringing historical inequities and injustice into sharp relief. Subscribe to Leading Through Change to receive the latest insights from Columbia Business School to help you navigate this unprecedented time. First Name Last Name Email Subscribe There was an error, please try again.Go Back Columbia Business SchoolOfficial Logo of Columbia Business School Academics Faculty & Research Executive Education Alumni About Centers & Programs Current Students Recruiters Corporate Support Us Faculty & Staff Newsroom Careers Contact Us Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Linkedin Columbia University in the City of New York 3022 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Tel. 212-854-1100Maps and Directions Back to TopUpward arrow TOP © 2020 Columbia University Privacy & Policy Statements