850-644-3801 learningforlife@fsu.edu Conference Center Map Room Gallery Web Recording Services Presentation Gallery Contact Us Academic Programs Teacher Institutes FSU Holocaust Institute Art Therapy with Families and Couples Orff-Schulwerk Teacher Education Non-Traditional Student Programs Returning Student Scholarship Professional Development Certificate in Financial Planning Introduction to Financial Planning Retirement Planning Online Insurance and Risk Management Planning Income Tax Planning Investment Planning Estate Planning Capstone Course: Developing Financial Plans Trauma & Resilience Professional Certification in Trauma and Resilience: Level One Professional Certification in Trauma and Resilience: Level Two College Student Wellbeing, Trauma, & Resilience Human Trafficking Prevention and Intervention Rebound & Recovery: Social-Emotional Education & Intervention for Early Childhood FSU Test Prep GRE Prep Course GMAT Prep Course LSAT Prep Course SAT Prep Course Home Florida State Conference Center Programs & Courses Student Log-In Contact CAPD Select Page FSU Center for Academic & Professional Development FSU CAPD hosts conferences, educational workshops, certificate programs, teacher education institutes, digital resources and e-learning, and academic courses. All of the Center’s activities and programs support our mission to extend the resources of Florida State University to promote lifelong learning. Learn more Meet in the Center Where Tradition Meets Technology The Augustus B. Turnbull III Florida State Conference Center, is a full-service center for hosting academic conferences as well as government meetings, non-profit, business and community events, association programs, corporate seminars and professional development events. Learn more Professional Development - Online, Anytime Any time any place, any path any pace Acquire Skills for Advancement Many professionals are required to take continuing education courses to maintain their licenses or just to stay competitive. We offer workshops, online courses and even web design & development courses to provide the skills needed to be successful in today’s work environment. Learn more Professional Certification in Trauma & Resilience “FSU is a leader in trauma and resilience education for the public.” – Mimi Graham, Director Center for Early Child Development This program is designed for professionals in a wide variety of fields because individuals in all different environments have exposure to trauma. The training provides an economical, evidence-based resource to the public for those who want to enhance their professional knowledge, skills, and career potential. Join Us Certificate in Financial Planning FSU continues its tradition of academic excellence with the Certificate in Financial Planning online program. With a comprehensive curriculum designed by FSU instructors, the program provides an in-depth understanding of the financial planning process using real-world examples and case studies. The program meets the educational requirements of the CFP Board to qualify to sit for the CFP® Certification Examination. Join Us Professional Certification in Human Trafficking Prevention and Intervention This program provides professionals with practical skills to increase awareness of and improve services and interventions for victims/survivors of trafficking. Professionals will learn to develop the knowledge and skills needed to understand the dynamics of the different types of human trafficking. Join Us Professional Certification in College Student Wellbeing, Trauma, and Resilience This program provides a foundation for transforming colleges and universities into trauma-informed environments in which students, faculty, and staff can thrive. Join Us Professional Certification in Rebound & Recovery: Social-Emotional Education & Intervention for Early Childhood This course provides educators and other individuals working with children the tools to understand social emotional learning, trauma-informed care, and build proficiencies in classroom management of emotions and behaviors. Join Us Academic Credit for Non-Traditional Students Receive Credit for Credentials Find FSU Academic Programs suited for non-traditional learners and how to register for them, learn about Teacher Institutes, find out about our Returning Student Scholarship and more. The CAPD Academic Programs unit promotes the academic excellence of FSU. Learn more Our Professional Certification in Human Trafficking Prevention and Intervention enables professionals to develop the knowledge and skills needed to understand the dynamics of the different types of human trafficking. The Professional Certification in Trauma and Resilience Program is an interdisciplinary program that enhances professionals’ knowledge of the impact of trauma and provides a powerful new perspective on resilience. The Professional Certification in College Student Wellbeing, Trauma, and Resilience provides a rigorous curriculum to inform about individual and systemic factors that impact student resilience and wellbeing. Our Certificate in Financial Planning is an established curriculum with distinguished faculty and a flexible program structure. The Professional Certification in Rebound & Recovery: Social-Emotional Education & Intervention for Early Childhood provides a comprehensive knowledge of the effect of social emotional learning in classroom behaviors and educational outcomes for the student. FSU Test Prep can help you realize your academic goals with test preparation courses for the GRE®, GMAT®, LSAT®, and now SAT®! We are Tallahassee’s leading test prep solution. Our Academic Programs include Non-Traditional Student Programs, Teacher Institutes and even a Returning Student Scholarship. The CAPD Academic Programs Unit provides several special Teacher Institutes each summer for educators looking for continuing education credit units. Check out our Presentation Gallery for our latest webcasts both on and off-site as well as produced in our video studio. CAPD provides live and on-demand webcasts for all FSU Commencement Ceremonies in conjunction with the Tucker Civic Center at FSU. Watch the ceremony from anywhere in the world! About The Center for Academic & Professional Development The mission of the Center for Academic and Professional Development is to extend the resources of the University to promote learning for life. Through our Always Learning venues, we host conferencing, educational workshops, certificate programs, teacher education institutes, digital resources and e-learning, and academic courses. Learn more about FSU CAPD. Facebook Twitter Florida State University • Center for Academic & Professional Development