Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU The Learning Incubator Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Search Home Overview People Events Upcoming Events Past Events Faculty Fellowships Call for Proposals LInc Faculty Fellows Postdoctoral Fellowships Postdoctoral Fellows SEAS LInc ~ Innovating Pedagogy in Engineering and the Sciences Welcome The Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences has established The SEAS Learning Incubator (SEAS LInc), whose mission is innovation of pedagogy in engineering and science. More LInc Announces Recipients of 2021-2022 Faculty Fellowships Congratulations to Boris Kozinsky, PhD; Dan Levy, PhD; Jia Liu, PhD; Kelly Miller, PhD and Elsie Sunderland, PhD who have each been awarded the LInc Faculty Fellowship for the academic year 2021-2022. Boris Kozinsky, PhD Associate Professor of Computational Materials Science Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Course Redesign: AP 275 - Computational Design of Materials Course Design: Spring 2022 Course Implementation: Spring 2023 Dan Levy, PhD Senior Lecturer in Public Policy at the John F. Kennedy School of Government Harvard Kennedy School Course Redesign: API-201-Quantitative Analysis and Empirical Methods and API-209- Advanced Quantitative Methods I: Statistics Course Design: Spring 2022 Course Implementation: Fall 2022 Jia Liu, PhD Assistant Professor of Bioengineering Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Course Redesign: BE 131/ES 225 Neuroengineering Course Design: Fall 2021 Course Implementation: Fall 2022 Kelly Miller, PhD Associate Senior Lecturer on Applied Physics Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences New Course Design: Physics of Sports Course Design: Fall 2021 Course Implementation: Fall 2022 Elsie Sunderland, PhD Gordon McKay Professor of Environmental Chemistry; Professor of Environmental Science and Engineering in the Department of Environmental Health; Affiliate of the Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences New Course Design: Establishing Interdisciplinary Courses Toward a New Joint Degree Program between the Harvard T.H. Chan and SEAS Course Design: Fall 2021 Course Implementation: Spring 2022 Designing the classroom for deeper student engagement and feedback on learning L Mahadevan, Lola England de Valpine Professor of Applied Mathematics in SEAS, and Professor of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology, and of Physics in FAS used his SEAS Learning Incubator LInc Faculty Fellowship to emphasize active learning in his Mathematical Modeling course. He implemented a flipped classroom approach to enable students to come to class with problems and questions to collaborate on, time to develop their own problems from scratch, and work on modeling with peers. - More Instrumental Lessons in Engineering Rob Wood, SEAS LInc Faculty Fellow and Charles River Professor of Engineering and Applied Sciences has implemented his newly designed course, Engineering the Acoustical World. Adam Zewe of SEAS News covers reactions to the new course in his article, Instrumental Lessons in Engineering. Lessons in Learning Study shows students in ‘active learning’ classrooms learn more than they think For decades, there has been evidence that classroom techniques designed to get students to participate in the learning process produces better educational outcomes at virtually all levels. And a new Harvard study suggests it may be important to let students know it. The study, published Sept. 4 in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, shows that, though students felt as if they learned more through traditional lectures, they actually learned more when taking part in classrooms that employed so-called active-learning strategies. Peter Reuell, Harvard Staff Writer, September 4, 2019 Read More LInc Exchange: Reimagining teaching & learning at Harvard Welcome to the LInc Exchange, an innovative conference where Harvard faculty reflect on the lessons learned from last year's pandemic disruption and invite you to reimagine education at Harvard moving forward. Last year’s unprecedented disruption to the educational landscape challenged us to transform the way we teach. As we head into the next school year, this is the time to reflect on the lessons learned and consider new modes of engagement and assessment for the next academic year. More Information Linc Conversations LInc Conversations - Eric Mazur, Linc Faculty Director, engages educational leaders in conversation. Click here for more info. SEAS LInc Activity Report Many thanks to all who participated in the past year! We look forward to your participation in the coming year! LInc Activity Report: July 1, 2020 - June 30, 2021 LInc Activity Report: July 1, 2019- June 30, 2020 Call for Proposals: LInc Faculty Fellowships 2022-2023 Submission Deadline: 2/7/22 The Learning Incubator (LInc) is pleased to announce a Call for Proposals for LInc Faculty Fellowships for the 2022-2023 Academic Year. A LInc Faculty Fellowship permits faculty to dedicate time normally devoted to teaching a course to the (re)-design of an existing course to implement new research-based pedagogies and improve learning gains. More Contact The Learning Incubator (LInc) Harvard John A. Paulson School of Engineering and Applied Sciences Science and Engineering Complex 1.223 150 Western Ave, Allston, MA 02124 Inquiries: Lisa Frontado, Director, LInc Email: Lfrontado@seas.harvard.edu Photography: Bethany Versoy and Neal Hamberg Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement