Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Library Learning Launchpad 10 Tips for Reading Room Success Back to top button Back to top 10 Tips for Reading Room Success New to working with primary sources? Not sure how to handle Harvard Library's rare books, manuscripts and other special collections materials? That's okay! These resources are here for you to use! Follow these handy guidelines to help preserve Harvard's rare materials for the future. 1. Work slowly Turn pages slowly, one page/sheet at a time, touching only the blank areas of the page/sheet. Keep an eye out for tears, detached pages or broken bindings. If you notice any problems ask reading room staff for assistance. Turn Pages Slowly - Why Important Why is this important? Tear caused by handling You are part of the life cycle of the artifact and your actions have a significant impact on the limited lifespan of these unique and historic materials. Working slowly and carefully helps minimize the impact of any existing damage and prevents new damage from occurring. Use cradles for bound volumes 2. Use book cradles for bound volumes Books and cradles should stay completely on the table while in use. Book Cradles - Why Important Why is this important? Book with detached cover and loose pages Cradles prevent pages from falling out or covers from falling off by providing support to the book's binding and pages. 3. Keep pages down with book weights Book Weights - Image Carousel Book weights (also called book snakes) should be placed on the blank area of the page. Book weights will be provided for you or ask reading room staff. Book weights - why important Why is this important? Book with stiff binding Stiff bindings make it difficult to read without touching the book. Books weights help keep the book open so you can do your work. They also lessen the amount of unnecessary contact with the artifact, as oils from hands can be transferred to the pages and cause damage. 4. Keep folders in boxes when not in use Work with one folder at a time, using a placeholder to maintain the sequence of items in the box. Stack items neatly in the box to avoid crushing or tearing. Unbound Materials in Folders - Why Important Why is this important? The goal is to avoid chaos. The materials in every box are in a specific, meaningful order. Keeping materials in order ensures that other researchers are able to find these materials in the future. 5. Keep flat items flat Keep items in their folders to maintain the sequence of items. Keep materials flat and completely on table while examining. Keep Items Flat - Why Important Why is this important? Paper weakened by ink If you bend it, you can break it. Bending can cause cracks, wrinkles, and potential loss of information in archival materials. Keep items flat and completely on the table to prevent this accidental damage. 6. Save the gloves for special occasions Gloves - Image Carousel Clean, bare hands are better for books! Gloves should only be worn for handling photographs or metal objects to prevent fingerprints. Gloves - Why Important Why is this important? Closeup of fingerprint permanently etched in photograph Metal objects and photographs are vulnerable to permanent damage from salt, tarnishing, or residue, so wearing gloves when handling these objects helps prevent that damage. When it comes to books and paper, however, wearing gloves reduces your tactile ability so clean, dry, bare hands are best. Keep laptops and cords to the side 7. Keep laptops and cords to the side Make sure cords do not drape over the object. Organized Workspace - Why Important Why is this important? Prevent accidental damage to materials by keeping your workspace organized. Watch where you write 8. Watch where you write Nothing should be placed on top of collection materials. Only pencils are allowed in reading rooms, so leave your pens at home. Watch Where You Write - Why Important Why is this important? Imprint on photograph Keeping your notes off of collection materials prevents imprinting your notes on the page. Pencils ensure there is no accidental damage from permanent marks left on a page. 9. Eat before you arrive Food and drinks, including water bottles, are not allowed in reading rooms. Eat Before Arrive - Why Important Why is this important? Spilling food or drinks on collection materials will result in damage, including stains that attract bugs. Bugs will feast on anything, including paper and bindings, and will continue to do more damage to the item. 10. Stow your belongings Stow Belongings - Image Carousel Houghton Library Avoid confusion and security risks by stowing your belongings in the lockers provided. Stow Belongings - Why Important Why is this important? Bags, backpacks, coats and other personal items are not allowed in reading rooms. Want to learn more? Advanced Techniques WANT TO KNOW MORE? Try these advanced techniques! 11. Open rolled objects in small increments Open rolled objects slowly, working in small sections at a time. Why is this important? Damage caused by improper handling Opening rolled items too far and too quickly can cause unexpected creases, tears, or bulging up of the object. 12. Use tools to help open folded objects Place plexiglass or small weights over folded areas or tears to hold the material down while observing. Why is this important? Perpendicular folds are vulnerable to tears. Using tools help prevent further tearing. 13. Take extra precaution with illuminated manuscripts Avoid touching or flexing pages of illuminated manuscripts whenever possible. Why is this important? Magnified image of an illumination where paint has flaked off Paint exposed to too much touching and flexing will flake and crack over time, resulting in the loss of paint layers. 14. Scrapbooks require extra care Be mindful of attachments, using both hands to slowly turn pages where scrapbook components may be loose or dangling. Why is this important? Scrapbook with loose pages Scrapbooks can contain a lot of loose items and papers, adding to their fragility. Handling with extra care ensures pages remain organized and in place. WHAT ELSE DO YOU WANT TO KNOW? Send us your questions! Digital Learning Launchpad Homepage Questions about this site? Contact Kris Markman at kristine_markman@harvard.edu. Link to code for smooth scroll function Link to code for basic tutorial styling/ foundation.css twentytwenty.css Link to code for styling handling tutorial Link to jQuery code for handling tutorial jquery.twentytwenty.js jquery.event.move.js Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement