Skip to main content Search form Search Professional Certificates Business / Finance Business Communication Business Ethics In the 21st Century Data Analytics Digital Media & Marketing Entrepreneurship Finance Essentials Innovation & Critical Thinking Management Accounting (CMA) Management Skills Human Resources Human Resources CE Courses Online Essentials of Human Resources Human Resource Management Human Resource Management - Intensive Managing Change and Resolving Conflict Legal Legal Nurse Consulting Legal Nurse Consulting as a Career Legal Nurse Consulting Program Paralegal Studies Paralegal Classroom Program Paralegal Online Program Paralegal Specialist Certificates Paralegal Summer Intensive Program Management Agile Practitioner Managing Change and Resolving Conflict Management Accounting (CMA) Management Training Business Analysis Classroom Virtual Online Advanced BA - Classroom Advanced BA - Virtual Developing Leaders Emerging Leaders Inclusive Leaders Tackling Bias and Creating Inclusion Project Management CE Program Supply Chain Management Sustainable Management Six Sigma / Lean Lean Basics Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Six Sigma Green Belt Six Sigma Yellow Belt Technology Solutions Data Science Digital Media & Marketing Online Learning Other Training Ace Your Job Search Technical Writing Nonprofit Management Nonprofit Certificate Individual Classes Nonprofit Certificate Intensive Track Executive Certificate in Nonprofit Leadership Partnerships Teaching Opportunities Osher Lifelong Learning Pre-College Duke Pre-College High School Program Engineering Courses Humanities Courses Mathematics Courses Science Courses Social Sciences Courses Personal Finance FAQ FAQ - Enrolled Students - Coming to Campus Policies Duke Pre-College Middle School Program Engineering Courses Humanities Courses Mathematics Courses Science Courses Social Sciences Technology Courses FAQ FAQ - Enrolled Students - Coming to Campus Policies Technology Requirements Employment Opportunities University Classes Undergraduate Coursework Graduate Coursework Auditing Courses Duke Employee Tuition Rates Student Login Instructor Login Featured Program Executive Certificate in Nonprofit Leadership The Executive Certificate in Nonprofit Leadership is a comprehensive program that offers experienced nonprofit professionals the opportunity to increase their capacity for effective entrepreneurial... Read more about this program Online Courses Auditing a Course Duke Employees About Continuing Studies Search Courses Professional Development Whether you are looking to upgrade skills in your current field or looking for training in a whole new area, our Professional Certificates can help you take that next step on your career track. Our programs are designed with the needs of working adults in mind, with evening and weekend class sessions and at a moderate cost. Join an energetic, committed peer network in classes taught by seasoned professionals and gain a credential that makes you stand out in today’s changing and competitive workplace. Read more about our Professional Certificate Programs Professional Certificate Programs Developing Leaders The Developing Leaders course is designed to equip mid-level managers and leaders of leaders with the skills to navigate both today’s challenges and tomorrow’s uncertainties.... read more » Business Ethics In the 21st Century This course deals with business ethics, the consideration of questions of moral right versus wrong in the context of business practice. Individual business leaders are... read more » Inclusive Leaders The Inclusive Leaders course is designed for mid-level managers, HR professionals, leaders, directors, and leaders of leaders who want to enhance their ability to recruit, retain... read more » Advanced Business Analysis - Virtual This advanced program is ideal for experienced business analysts looking to advance their skills or obtain and maintain CBAP® Certification. During the three courses comprising... read more » Technical Writing This online, virtual (live), seven course program is designed to provide the fundamental technical writing skills for individuals considering an entry level career in technical... read more » Digital Media & Marketing This online, self-paced program is designed for individuals seeking to enhance their existing digital marketing skills or pursue a new career in this growing industry. read more » Advanced Business Analysis - Classroom This advanced program is ideal for experienced business analysts looking to advance their skills or obtain and maintain CBAP® Certification. During the three courses comprising... read more » Emerging Leaders The Emerging Leaders course is designed to guide and support recently promoted managers or aspiring leaders in growing targeted leadership skills and capabilities. This highly... read more » Legal Nurse Consulting Program The Legal Nurse Consulting program is designed for the Registered Nurse (RN) interested in learning how to apply their nursing acumen for analysis of health care issues and their... read more » Human Resource Management Designed for Human Resource professionals committed to earning the SHRM-CP or SHRM-SCP certification, this virtual online, instructor-led, exam preparation program can assist you... read more » Lean Six Sigma Green Belt This program, created in affiliation with MindEdge and Six Sigma Black Belts, is inclusive of all topics covered by the International Association for Six Sigma Certification. This... read more » Ace Your Job Search Designed for individuals seeking employment, this online, three-part course focuses on career planning, enhancing resume writing and improving interviewing skills. read more » Tackling Bias and Creating Inclusion Actively tackling bias in the workplace helps build better organizations … and better people. If you want to unleash the true potential of your workforce, it’s important to create... read more » Entrepreneurship This online certificate program introduces key issues in entrepreneurship for those looking to start a business on their own. What does it take to build and grow a business from... read more » Paralegal Specialist Certificates The paralegal field continues to be a growing profession, so what can an experienced paralegal do to stay on top of a competitive market? Modeled after the successful Duke... read more » Finance Essentials This online certificate program introduces non-financial managers to the essentials of finance. The course will help you become conversant in critical financial terminology, and... read more » Lean Basics Lean is an approach to organizational processes that seeks to minimize waste and increase value for the customer. Starting off as an approach to manufacturing processes, Lean has... read more » Human Resource Management - Intensive Track You are the future. Invest in yourself with SHRM certification. Are you ready to make an impact that will not only benefit your organization, but help ensure continued career... read more » Business Analysis - Classroom Expand your business analysis skill set and equip yourself with the knowledge and credits needed to earn and maintain the IIBA® CBAP® credential. The Business Analysis Certificate... read more » Online Learning Certificate This self-paced, online certificate is designed for individuals who seek an introduction to the process of creating, administering, or teaching online learning programs. Creating... read more » Paralegal Online Program This certificate program is designed for individuals who are seeking a career change and the skill set for a successful transition into the paralegal profession. The Duke Online... read more » Supply Chain Management As the supply chain grows in complexity, and companies increasingly source products and services from a more diverse and global set of suppliers, the job of managing the processes... read more » Business Analysis - Online This self-paced program is available 24/7 providing you with the flexibility to train at the pace, location and time of your choosing. It aligns with the IIBA® BABOK® Guide and... read more » Business Analysis - Virtual Expand your business analysis skill set and equip yourself with the knowledge and credits needed to earn and maintain the IIBA® CBAP® credential. The Business Analysis Certificate... read more » Six Sigma Green Belt This program, created in affiliation with MindEdge and Six Sigma Black Belts, is inclusive of all topics covered by the International Association for Six Sigma Certification. This... read more » Paralegal Classroom Program This certificate program is designed for individuals who are seeking a career change and the skill-set for a successful transition into the paralegal profession. The Duke... read more » Data Science This online, self-paced program is designed to help students learn the principles of data science. Duke Continuing Studies has partnered with Simplilearn, an online training... read more » Paralegal Summer Intensive Program This fast-paced, intensive certificate program is designed for individuals who are seeking a career change and the skill-set for a successful transition into the paralegal... read more » Innovation & Critical Thinking Because organizations must innovate to stay alive in today's highly competitive marketplace, organizations need employees who can channel their creativity and innovation toward... read more » Human Resources CE Courses Online Designed for the Human Resource (HR) professional seeking to stay current within the industry, these online, self-paced, Continuing Education (CE) courses will provide a... read more » Project Management CE Program This program is designed for current Project Management Professionals® who need to earn their 60 PDUs in order to maintain their Project Management Professional (PMP)®... read more » Data Analytics Modern business software produces mountains of data; it is up to the professional to examine it and draw meaningful conclusions. This entirely online and self-paced program is... read more » Sustainable Management A sustainable business is one that generates profits for its owners, protects the environment, and improves the lives of the people with whom it interacts. This online certificate... read more » Six Sigma Yellow Belt This program, created in affiliation with MindEdge and Six Sigma Black Belts, prepares students for the MindEdge Six Sigma Yellow Belt Certification Exam and provides information... read more » Management Skills Successful managers know the importance of building strong relationships with their team members. This entirely online, self-paced program provides both new and experienced... read more » Management Accounting - CMAexcel Online Through a partnership with The Institute of Management Accountants (IMA), Duke is proud to offer the Online CMAexcel Program, a review program for the CMA certification exam put... read more » Managing Change and Resolving Conflict Leaders and manager are often called upon to deal with the challenging impacts of change, to work through disputes with partners and customers, and to resolve conflict within the... read more » Agile Practitioner Agile is a method of project management characterized by the division of tasks into short phases of work and frequent reassessment and adaptation of plans. Agile project... read more » Business Communication This curriculum provides the tools and training to be able to communicate persuasively and critically in the workplace. These self-paced, online courses are designed for students... read more » Essentials of Human Resources Now offered online and virtually (live) via Zoom. Created by, and offered in partnership with the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM), this course is intended as an... read more » Nonprofit Management Training Nonprofit Certificate Intensive Track Hundreds of participants from across the country take part in the Intensive Track Program designed to give nonprofit professionals the skills and expertise needed to succeed in... read more » Executive Certificate in Nonprofit Leadership The Executive Certificate in Nonprofit Leadership is a comprehensive program that offers experienced nonprofit professionals the opportunity to increase their capacity for... read more » Nonprofit Certificate Individual Classes The Duke University Nonprofit Management program curriculum offers a structured and rigorous grounding in the establishment, operation, and continuation of a successful nonprofit... read more » What's new at OLLI Racial Equity Institute’s Phase I Workshop Tuesdays, 9:00AM to 5:00PM Racial Equity Institute’s Phase I Workshop Fridays, 9:00AM to 5:00PM Racial Equity Institute’s Phase I Workshop Mondays, 9:00AM to 5:00PM Racial Equity Institute’s Phase I Workshop Mondays, 9:00AM to 5:00PM See all OLLI courses Osher Lifelong Learning Institute The Osher Lifelong Learning Institute at Duke seeks to engage the minds, elevate the spirit and foster the wellbeing of our members through a wide range of educational programs and opportunities for volunteer service and social activities. We embrace Duke University’s commitment to community service and lifelong learning through our collaborative work with academic and professional groups, retirement communities, various research projects on aging, and other institutes for learning in retirement. Pre-College Programs Criminal Law at the Intersection of Race, Class, and Power Thank you for your interest, but applications for this course are currently closed as it has reached capacity. How do police enforce laws? How does a defendant’s access to... read more » Ocean Sustainability in the Anthropocene How can we better understand and interpret the science of marine sustainability? You might be surprised to learn that fisheries are one of the most significant interactions... read more » Applied Econometrics Prerequisite: Algebra II or equivalent Social media is filled with competing and opposing claims concerning whether a college degree pays off, whether immigration hurts... read more » Particle Physics: Seeing the Invisible World Why can we perform millions of life-saving MRI scans each year? How have we united over half of all nations on the planet in a common cause? What continues to generate Nobel... read more » Biomedical Engineering: Fantastic Hearts Did you know that the heart is an efficient machine that runs on “biological” electricity? The one thing that keeps us alive is an electrical pump that provides blood to the whole... read more » Financial Literacy Do you want to gain life skills and knowledge that will be an asset now and into your future? Enhance your financial literacy and learn some of the fundamentals of personal... read more » The Sustainable CEO – Transformative Business Leadership Thank you for your interest in our Sustainable CEO course. Applications for this course are currently closed because it has reached capacity. Please check back to see if... read more » Engineering Solutions for Global Health: The Human Centered Design Process Why do engineering interventions often fail? How can we improve the engineering design process to address points of failure? What does human-centered design (HCD) look like in... read more » Chemical Toxicology How does cooking food affect what kind of toxicants are formed, and in what quantities? What really happened in Flint, Michigan to cause the high lead levels in their drinking... read more » Applied Digital Signal Processing How is it that you or Alexa can distinguish between various speakers? What do these speech signals even look like? How can we model them? Signals are everywhere! Without them, we... read more » Medical Research Panels Thank you for your interest in our Lab Week course, but applications for this course are currently closed as it has reached capacity. Are you fascinated by the dynamic... read more » Ethical Engineering If a self-driving car has an accident, who is at fault? Who is responsible for the impact that artificial intelligence has on society? How can we ensure that our devices don’t... read more » Politics of Empire Did you know that empires endured for more than two millennia before finally giving way to the world of nation-states we take for granted? The most recent nation-state is scarcely... read more » Literary Essay What qualities made your favorite book one you couldn’t put down? What about the story on your favorite TV show made you binge every episode? Every good source of entertainment... read more » LEGO Stop Motion: Animation Have you ever wondered how The LEGO® Movie was created? How do animators develop original characters, sets and stories that capture audience emotions and bring imagination to life... read more » Scientific Research and Design Are health experts convincing the public to take precautions against COVID to prevent variants? Are climate scientists reaching policy-makers? When it comes to public health,... read more » Truth, Justice, and Reconciliation in Post-Conflict Societies Demands for recognition of “historical wrongs” and the redress of grievances have abounded in the post-World War II era, especially in countries emerging from authoritarian rule... read more » Memoirs, Life Stories and Personal Anecdotes How often do you get to walk in someone else’s shoes? What makes your perspective of a story interesting? What about the narrator makes us trust their recounting of the tale?... read more » Cyber Connections: Health and Harm in Digital Communications What is your pandemic story? How do our personal viewpoints and public discourse fit together online? Explore the relationships between public communication spaces and individual... read more » Mock Trial: Practicing the Tools of Justice Thank you for your interest in our Mock Trial course. Applications for this course are currently closed because it has reached capacity. Please check back to see if space... read more » Media Literacy and Identity Do you use TikTok, Instagram, Twitter or YouTube? What role does media play when it comes to your identity? How can we use media as a space for art, self-expression, critical... read more » Bioethics in Global Surgery Did you know that over five billion people worldwide do not have access to safe, affordable surgical care? How do surgeons choose which patients to treat when resources are scarce... read more » Mathematical Logic and Proofs What skills do we use to solve the toughest riddles? What is the best way to communicate mathematical ideas, such as the countable infinity of natural numbers to others who may... read more » Animal Cognition Have you ever wondered what your dog is thinking? Or how dolphins learn to work together to catch fish? Or whether a chimpanzee could learn sign language? Welcome to the field of... read more » Cardiovascular Disease and Global Distributions Did you know that Cardiovascular Disease is the global leading cause of death? Which factors contribute to this disease? Who is most impacted? What can be done to help solve this... read more » Anatomy, Histology, & Pathology Thank you for your interest, but applications for this course are currently closed as it has reached capacity. read more » Global Mathematics – Residential/Commuter Prerequisite: Algebra II or equivalent Do you want to learn how to sequence DNA using graph theory? Perhaps, you would like to work in the intelligence field and help... read more » Neuroscience Lab Thank you for your interest in our Neuroscience Lab. Applications for this course are currently closed as it has reached capacity. Please check back to see if space... read more » Personal Finance As a high school student, do you have concerns about managing your own finances when you go to college? In this course, you will learn the fundamentals of personal financial... read more » Astrophysics What are the physics behind actually launching a rocket into space? What aspects does NASA have to consider before constructing a spacecraft that can safely travel into the next... read more » Exploring History through Photography and Mixed Media What is the work that historians do? Do they simply present the dates and facts of events, or is there more to the story? While historians strive to represent history accurately,... read more » Mastering the 60 Second Documentary How often do you watch a short video clip for amusement, or even to get the information you need about a topic? We increasingly rely on short sound bites and videos for both... read more » Video Journalism How is the video journalism you stream on your smartphone or watch on television created? What filmmaking techniques are used to hook audiences and inform them about entertainment... read more » Research Methods in an Age of Fake News How does the business of news work? What makes a news source credible? How does advertising play a role in what information the viewer receives? Whether it’s a product, an idea,... read more » STEAM Research Panels Thank you for your interest in our Lab Week course, but applications for this course are currently closed as it has reached capacity. read more » Audio Engineering How is sound produced in your headphones, cellphone or tablet? How is electrical energy involved in the process? Electrical engineers use hands-on design and problem-solving to... read more » Global Mathematics – Online Prerequisite: Algebra II or equivalent Do you want to learn how to sequence DNA using graph theory? Perhaps, you would like to work in the intelligence field and help... read more » Cryptography We use numbers for everything, but how did these number systems come to be? How can some of these systems have only a finite amount of numbers? How are algorithms created to... read more » Healthcare Professions and Modern Medicine Thank you for your interest in our Healthcare Professions & Modern Medicine Lab. Applications for this course are currently closed as it has reached capacity. Please... read more » University Coursework Duke’s Office of Continuing Studies provides Duke employees and Triangle NC residents with ways to take courses in the arts & sciences on a nondegree basis, or as an auditor. The Director of Academic Services for Continuing Studies is Kim Price; she may be contacted at kprice@duke.edu. There are a selection of ways to take courses through Duke Continuing Studies: Nondegree Undergraduate Studies - Taking Duke courses on a non-credit basis with instructor permission Nondegree Graduate Studies - Taking Duke graduate courses for credit on a nondegree basis Auditing - Taking Duke undergraduate courses for credit on a nondegree basis Duke Employee Tuition Rates - Information for Duke employees wanting to audit or take undergraduate courses for credit at reduced tuition rates Duke Employee? In terms of academic programs, medicine, and research, Duke University ranks as one of the leading universities in the world. The Special Employee Tuition Rate Program is designed to make Duke’s academic coursework more accessible... Learn more about Duke Employee Tuition Rates Continuing Studies Box 90700 Durham, NC 27708 phone: 919.684.6259 learnmore@duke.edu Advanced Course Search About Duke Continuing Studies Staff Directory Privacy Policy Severe Weather Policy Professional Certificates Nonprofit Management Osher Lifelong Learning University Classes Request Information Student Login Instructor Login Search form Search Professional Certificates Business / Finance Business Communication Business Ethics In the 21st Century Data Analytics Digital Media & Marketing Entrepreneurship Finance Essentials Innovation & Critical Thinking Management Accounting (CMA) Management Skills Human Resources Human Resources CE Courses Online Essentials of Human Resources Human Resource Management Human Resource Management - Intensive Managing Change and Resolving Conflict Legal Legal Nurse Consulting Legal Nurse Consulting as a Career Legal Nurse Consulting Program Paralegal Studies Paralegal Classroom Program Paralegal Online Program Paralegal Specialist Certificates Paralegal Summer Intensive Program Management Agile Practitioner Managing Change and Resolving Conflict Management Accounting (CMA) Management Training Business Analysis Classroom Virtual Online Advanced BA - Classroom Advanced BA - Virtual Developing Leaders Emerging Leaders Inclusive Leaders Tackling Bias and Creating Inclusion Project Management CE Program Supply Chain Management Sustainable Management Six Sigma / Lean Lean Basics Lean Six Sigma Green Belt Six Sigma Green Belt Six Sigma Yellow Belt Technology Solutions Data Science Digital Media & Marketing Online Learning Other Training Ace Your Job Search Technical Writing Nonprofit Management Nonprofit Certificate Individual Classes Nonprofit Certificate Intensive Track Executive Certificate in Nonprofit Leadership Partnerships Teaching Opportunities Osher Lifelong Learning Pre-College Duke Pre-College High School Program Engineering Courses Humanities Courses Mathematics Courses Science Courses Social Sciences Courses Personal Finance FAQ FAQ - Enrolled Students - Coming to Campus Policies Duke Pre-College Middle School Program Engineering Courses Humanities Courses Mathematics Courses Science Courses Social Sciences Technology Courses FAQ FAQ - Enrolled Students - Coming to Campus Policies Technology Requirements Employment Opportunities University Classes Mission & History Contact Us Undergraduate Coursework Graduate Coursework Auditing Courses Duke Employee Tuition Rates Policies General Privacy Policy Duke's Non-Discrimination Policy Cancellations & Refunds Inclement & Severe Weather Duke Employees Accessibility & Accommodations Clery Act Accreditation Staff Directory Online Courses Auditing a Course Duke Employees About Continuing Studies Search Courses