Skip to content Search Contact Us Subscribe Menu What We Do Faculty Development Online Learning Research, Evaluation & Development Learning Technologies Learning Networks & Communities Blog Events Resources About Our Mission Who We Are Current Priority Areas Year In Progress Annual Report Learning Innovation Advisory Council Create an Inclusive and Equitable Course Our teaching guide provides insight and resources for how you can keep inclusion and equity in mind as you design, conduct and evaluate your course. view the guide What We Do Faculty Development Faculty Development We partner with Duke faculty to support new approaches to student-centered teaching and active learning. Online Learning Online Learning We work with faculty to develop online courses and university programs as well as support school-level strategies for online education. Research, Evaluation & Development Research, Evaluation & Development We conduct research on the effectiveness of innovative teaching approaches and technologies. Learning Technologies Learning Technologies We explore and evaluate innovative ways to use learning technologies for teaching at Duke. Learning Networks & Communities Learning Networks & Communities We bring people together to organize alliances, manage projects and achieve university-wide goals. Carrying the Innovation Forward During a period of change and uncertainty, Duke faculty, staff and students sought to build purpose and meaning through the adoption of new teaching methods and learning technologies, as well as stay connected to one another while physically apart. Learn More Some of our work Featured Projects The 2022 Pandemic Pedagogy Research Symposium Sakai Conversations: A New Q&A Tool Flexible Teaching: Student Success In Any Mode Subscribe to the Learning Innovation Newsletter to find out about upcoming events and the latest news in education. Subscribe Recent Posts Blog / Faculty Success Stories / learner engagement / Teaching Strategies Role-play Debate: Wear a Different Hat and Encounter New Challenges Dr. Hyun Jeong Ha, Duke Kunshan professor designed a role-play debate activity to teach students sociological thinking skills in her Contemporary Social Problems class. The Center for Teaching and Learning … Assessment / Blog / Inclusive Teaching / Teaching Strategies Creating Inclusive Learning Environments: Webinar Summary On March 24, 2022, Dr. Rita Kumar and Dr. Brenda Refaei moderated a webinar focused on their new edited volume “Equity and Inclusion in Higher Education: Strategies for Teaching.” The … Bass Digital Education Fellowship / Blog Attend the Bass Digital Education Fellowship Showcase on April 14, 2022 Join Learning Innovation and the Duke Graduate School for a showcase highlighting the digital projects of this year’s cohort of Bass Digital Education Fellows. Through a series of lightning round … Partner Spotlight Joshua WilsonVP & COO of Longsight “Longsight has partnered for many years with Learning Innovation to deliver Sakai at Duke University. Our partnership deepened with the launch of Sakai Conversations, in which we collaborated to create new capabilities in Sakai that facilitate meaningful, compelling learning conversations of all kinds. The Learning Innovation team members are invariably forward-looking, creative, energetic leaders in our ongoing work together.” Dr. Sheila PatekDirector of Muser “Learning Innovation is an integral partner with Muser. They guided our university-wide launching of the program and encouraged our technology-based innovations for equity and inclusion. Muser has benefited tremendously from the breadth and expertise of LI’s staff and the depth of their engagement in supporting this important initiative here and beyond Duke.” Dr. Cecilia MarquezHunt Family Asst. Professor of History “Having the opportunity to work as a Collaborative Project Course Fellow with both Duke Learning Innovation and Bass Connections has transformed the way I teach. They helped me integrate active learning pedagogies and project-based assignments in my courses. I am so lucky to have found this amazing group and look forward to continuing to grow as a teacher in partnership with them!” Articles of interest to Learning Innovation Staff What We're Reading Blythe Tyrone Education Surges When Students Learn Together Elise Mueller 4 Misconceptions of Online Learning Blythe Tyrone How to Solve the Student-Disengagement Crisis Shawn Miller Why Having Two Types Of Elite Universities Will Restore Confidence In U.S. Higher Education Amy Kenyon ICYMI: How to Escape Grading Jail Blythe Tyrone Teaching: Students’ Ideas on Overcoming Disengagement Physical Location The Bullpen in the Imperial Building Mailing Address 215 Morris Street Suite 300 Durham, NC 27701 Contact phone: (919) 660-5806 email: learninginnovation@duke.edu Contact Us Browse What We Do About Blog Contact Us Events Directions Resources Newsletter Signup Connect With Duke Learning Innovation Support Our Work Donate to Duke Learning Innovation Copyright © 2022 Duke Learning Innovation Search for:Search Button