850-644-3801 learningforlife@fsu.edu Conference Center Map Room Gallery Web Recording Services Presentation Gallery Contact Us Academic Programs Teacher Institutes FSU Holocaust Institute Art Therapy with Families and Couples Orff-Schulwerk Teacher Education Non-Traditional Student Programs Returning Student Scholarship Professional Development Certificate in Financial Planning Introduction to Financial Planning Retirement Planning Online Insurance and Risk Management Planning Income Tax Planning Investment Planning Estate Planning Capstone Course: Developing Financial Plans Trauma & Resilience Professional Certification in Trauma and Resilience: Level One Professional Certification in Trauma and Resilience: Level Two College Student Wellbeing, Trauma, & Resilience Human Trafficking Prevention and Intervention Rebound & Recovery: Social-Emotional Education & Intervention for Early Childhood FSU Test Prep GRE Prep Course GMAT Prep Course LSAT Prep Course SAT Prep Course Home Florida State Conference Center Programs & Courses Student Log-In Contact CAPD Select Page FSU Offers Tallahassee’s Leading Test Prep Solution If you plan to attend graduate school, law school, or business school, we can help you realize your academic goals. With test preparation courses for the GRE®, GMAT®, LSAT®, and SAT® FSU Test Prep is Tallahassee’s leading test prep solution. Standardized test scores on the GRE, GMAT, or LSAT, are a major component of your graduate school application process. These tests play a significant role in determining the future of your education. Standardized tests help determine your admission status and are often used in awarding merit-based scholarships, grants, fellowships, and assistantships. Let FSU’s Test Prep program help you prepare for and ace these important exams! Our test preparation courses were designed by a team of former standardized test item writers and test preparation experts. Our experienced and professional instructors are highly trained and care about your success. Let us help you achieve your goals! Online courses are now available! Learn more about each course: Pursue your MBA Considering an MBA? Let us help you get into the program of your choice. The GMAT is the preferred exam for many top-ranking full-time and part-time MBA programs. Our professional instructors will help you understand each section of the GMAT, dissect each item type, and develop a comprehensive plan for test day success. Advance your degree Seeking a graduate degree? The GRE revised General Test measures critical thinking, analytical writing, verbal reasoning, and quantitative reasoning skills that have been acquired over a long period of time and that are not related to any specific field of study. The GRE is required for a large variety of master’s degree and doctoral degree programs. Master’s in Education (ME), Social Work (MSW), Nurse Practitioner (NP), Business, and Public Administration programs often require or accept the GRE exam. Go to law school The LSAT is a paper-based standardized exam that is administered four times per year. Our LSAT Test Prep Courses are precisely scheduled to make sure students reach test day performing at their peak. Take the mystery out of the LSAT and get the tools you need to succeed on test day! SAT Summer Institutes Florida State University’s Test Prep Summer Institutes offer comprehensive preparation for the SAT. Our Summer Institutes are intensive test prep programs that provide students with the tools they need to prepare for and succeed on the SAT. They provide 20 hours of classroom instruction in a condensed one-week format, convenient for students seeking to develop essential test-taking tools during the summer All FSU Test Prep courses include: Extensive classroom instruction Experienced, expert instructors Comprehensive preparation materials, including actual questions and practice tests from the test-makers Thorough presentations and explanations Convenient access to our team of experts Flexible face-to-face and online schedule options Online courses available FSU Alumni and Military Receive A 10% Discount FSU Center for Academic & Professional Development offers this special opportunity for you to revive your educational experiences at FSU. Take advantage of a special 10% discount on many of our adult education courses available in Tallahassee and online. All FSU alumni and Military are eligible. Come back to FSU! To receive the promo code, please call: (850) 644-3801 or use the contact form below. If you do not request the promo code before registering, it cannot be applied to your account. Facebook Twitter Florida State University • Center for Academic & Professional Development