Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Leavenworth myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Academics Admission Research People Alumni & Friends Resources Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Leavenworth Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Local Classes. Global Respect. Get more info Pursue a respected education at the University of Kansas in Leavenworth. Your career goals are within reach. The University of Kansas offers academic programs and certificates in Leavenworth, Kan., providing you the education of distinction you need to advance your career. A degree from the University of Kansas is well known and highly respected wherever your career takes you - nationally or globally. Choose from a variety of undergraduate, graduate and certificate programs available for completion at your convenience. Students can pursue KU coursework that can be completed within 10 months through accelerated programming and flexible class times to fit the busy schedules of working adults and military careers. Learn about KU degrees in Leavenworth Get more information about degrees, admissions, tuition, financial aid, credit for CGSC and more. Get more info Get more info Why KU in Leavenworth? High-quality degrees and certificates respected worldwide Local location and accelerated classwork Late-afternoon and evening class times to fit working adult and military schedules Curriculum designed to complement and benefit military and civilian careers Undergraduate Course Offerings Graduate Certificate in Homeland Security: Law & Policy Click to expand The graduate certificate in homeland security, offered both online through the KU Edwards Campus and in-person at KU in Leavenworth, allows members of the armed forces and other professionals an opportunity to generate expertise in homeland security law with specialized knowledge and skill in emergency management, cyber law and national security. This 12-credit-hour program offers interdisciplinary knowledge and an advanced credential to those seeking an alternative to the full master’s program. Download the program guide Master of Science in Homeland Security: Law & Policy (City of Leavenworth) Click to expand Homeland security professionals work in an increasingly complex environment requiring high-level critical and creative thinking. This interdisciplinary program is designed for military officers, as well as government and private sector employees of organizations responsible for security operations and disaster preparedness. Graduates learn about domestic and international law and policy, crisis mitigation and management, cyberterrorism, critical infrastructure attacks, natural disasters, epidemics, and chemical and biohazards. The coursework culminates in an intensive homeland security crisis simulation. Students in Leavenworth can complete the degree in 10 months, beginning in August and finishing the following May. Some federal employees may qualify for a 10% discount off of tuition. Inquire now and ask about the Federal Government Partnership. Download the program guide Master of Science in Organizational Leadership (City of Leavenworth) Click to expand The Master of Science in Organizational Leadership program focuses on building foundational leadership skills necessary to excel in today's complex world. The program is designed on the fundamental principles of business leadership, focusing on emergent thinking in leading, ethics, team-building, and strategy. The curriculum incorporates useful, practical knowledge balanced across the central components of leadership and consists of 30 credit hours. KU may grant six hours of transfer credit for leadership electives completed during ILE-CGSC or at other accredited institutions. The program leverages a hybrid curriculum, with 12 credits offered in a classroom setting and 12 in an online environment. The curriculum can be completed in ten months (August to May), and students have the option of applying their coursework toward a KU Master of Business Administration, which can be pursued online at your own pace. See more information on the KU School of Business website. Download the program guide Master of Science in Business - Supply Chain Management and Logistics (Fort Leavenworth) Click to expand The Master of Science in Business with a Supply Chain Management and Logistics concentration is aimed primarily toward Army Majors and Major-eligible Captains but is also offered to other branches of the military. The degree will complement the quality military supply chain education officers enjoy while enabling a broader, civilian economy focus for those who plan to pursue logistics careers after military service. Master of Arts in Global and International Studies - Interagency Track (Fort Leavenworth) Click to expand The objective of the Interagency Studies Program (ISP) is to prepare military officers for working in interagency environments by expanding their abilities to conceptualize and address issues beyond their military training. The program offers coursework from multiple disciplines with an array of theoretical frameworks. The ISP curriculum consists of 30 credit hours, with KU granting six hours of credit for ILE education. The remaining 24 credit hours come from eight KU courses that are taught at two locations: night courses at the Command and General Staff College and day courses at KU's main campus in Lawrence. The evening classes - four courses taken in sequence - are taught from late July to March at the CGSC. The final four courses are taught at the KU Lawrence campus from March through late June. Programming offered in the City of Leavenworth is taught at the TownePlace Suites and Fairfield Inn & Suites, 1101 N. 4th St. Leavenworth, KS 66048. Professional Offerings Coming Soon: Students can pursue KU Public Management Center and Lifelong & Professional Education's non-credit programs in areas such as Lean Six Sigma, leadership, information technology, Osher Lifelong Learning courses and more. View all of KU's online course offerings >> Ready to learn more? We'll fill you in on the details. Inquire now to connect with a program representative to discuss the following topics as they pertain to you. Course schedules and workload expectations. Admission requirements. Tuition costs and financial aid, including military and federal employee tuition assistance. Transferring credits from prior education and/or Command and General Staff College. Career paths and future jobs outlook. Faculty credentials, research, and teaching methods. Educational comparisons in the area. Open house or educational workshop dates. × × × × 1001 N. 4th Street Leavenworth, KS 66048 leavenworth@ku.edu facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Home Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.