Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today Legal Services for Students Search form Search Home About Contact Us Services Available Court Representation Eligibility Tax Information International Students U.S. Residents Tax Incentives Checklist 1098-T Info Tax Workshop Schedule Resources Overview Housing Resources Consumer Resources People Staff Directory Legal Services for Students Interns Advisory Board Menu Home About Contact Us Services Available Court Representation Eligibility Tax Information International Students U.S. Residents Tax Incentives Checklist 1098-T Info Tax Workshop Schedule Resources Overview Housing Resources Consumer Resources People Staff Directory Legal Services for Students Interns Advisory Board Search Search form Search Home Tax Information Tax Incentives Higher Education Tax Incentives What is the difference between tax credits and tax deductions? Tax credits decrease your tax liability, which is the amount of tax you owe. Tax deductions decrease your taxable income, which is the amount of your income that is subject to taxation. What kinds of tax credits are available for higher education? The American Opportunity Credit The Lifetime Learning Credit NOTE: Taxpayers may only take one of these two credits in a given year. What is the American Opportunity Credit? The American Opportunity Credit is a credit for up to $2,500 for the first $4,000 spent on qualified education expenses in a year and is available for the first four years of post-secondary education. Even if you do not make enough money to file a tax return, file anyway because you may get up to $1,000 back. Qualified education expenses include tuition and many other education-related expenses including required course material. The student must be enrolled at least half-time working toward an undergraduate degree during this time. What is the Lifetime Learning Credit? The Lifetime Learning Credit is a credit of up to $2,000 for the first $10,000 spent on qualified education expenses each year. Qualified education expenses include tuition and many other education-related expenses. The Lifetime Learning Credit is available for all years of post-secondary education. The student must be enrolled in at least one course at any qualified educational institution. What kinds of tax deductions are available for higher education? The Tuition and Fees Deduction The Student Loan Interest Deduction What is the Tuition and Fees Deduction? The deduction for tuition and fees expired on December 31, 2020. However, taxpayers who paid qualifed tuition and fees in 2018, 2019 and 2020 could claim a maximum deduction of $4,000. If you have questions about amending your 2018, 2019 or 2020 returns to claim this deduction, please contact our office. The Tuition and Fees Deduction is a deduction of up to $4,000 for qualified tuition and fees paid during the year. This deduction is not available if anyone claims the American Opportunity Credit or the Lifetime Learning Credit for the same student. What is the Student Loan Interest Deduction? The Student Loan Interest Deduction is a deduction of up to $2,500 for student loan interest paid during the year. This deduction is available in addition to the other deductions and credits. Additional Information You can find additional information about Tax Benefits for Higher Education on the IRS website. IRS Publication 970 Tax Benefits for Education also contains additional information about higher education tax incentives, including the Coverdell Education Savings Account and Qualified Tuition Program. Tax laws change frequently. Please contact your tax advisor or preparer for information about your specific tax situation. Tweets by @KU_LSS Legal Services for Students Need Directions? ... and stop by our office for a free game day t-shirt! Translate Why KU One of 34 U.S. public institutions in the prestigious Association of American Universities 44 nationally ranked graduate programs. —U.S. News & World Report Top 50 nationwide for size of library collection. —ALA 5th nationwide for service to veterans —"Best for Vets: Colleges," Military Times The KU Difference » KU | News Subscribe | All KU News » Contact Legal Services for Students legals@ku.edu (785) 864-5665 2030 Burge Union 1565 Irving Hill Road Lawrence, Kansas 66045-4074 Disclaimer Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety Contact KU Lawrence, KS CMS Login