Skip to main content A to Z Listing Campus Map Find People News UCR Home Skip to main content University of California, Riverside Search More from us... UC Riverside Office of Legal Affairs Fostering Client Success Search Home Attorneys & Staff Practice Areas Business Transactions Dispute Resolution Educational Affairs Health Affairs Labor and Employment Land Use and EH&S Privacy and Information Practices Research Technology Transfer Records Requests (CPRA) CPRA Guidelines Resources Conflict of Interest Guidance/Advisories Policies Presentations (UCR Only) Related Offices Self Help Tools The Attorney-Client Privilege at UC Use of the 'UCR' Name FAQs UCR Home More from us... Breadcrumb The Office of Legal Affairs provides counsel and legal advice to the Chancellor and his cabinet as well as to the senior leadership at UCR. We do not represent individual faculty, staff or students. The Office of Legal Affairs provides legal advice and assistance on a wide range of matters affecting faculty, students and staff. Such matters include labor and employment, educational affairs, research, health affairs, technology transfer, privacy and information practices, land use, procurement, dispute resolution, compliance and regulations and policies of The Regents. For background, news, resources about UC Riverside's response to the novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. click here Office of Legal Affairs University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave 3148 Hinderaker Hall Tel: (951) 827-5077 Request Legal Services Search University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR Office of Legal Affairs 900 University Ave. 3148 Hinderaker Hall Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-5077 Privacy and Accessibility Terms and Conditions © 2022 Regents of the University of California × Let us help you with your search Enter your Search Criteria. Search Cancel