Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Leland Scholars Program Search this site Submit Search Menu About LSP The LSP Story The LSP Summer Experience The First Year Experience Course Credit Frequently Asked Questions People Instructor and Staff Profiles LSP Council LSP Family Preceptor Profiles Samia Ahmed Eyerusalem Alemu Lizzie Avila Fernando Bravo Hannah Kelley Xochilt Lorenzo Taylor Malina Sam Prieto Jazmin Reyes Emily Rodriguez Paola Ruiz Salei Salanoa FLI Resources at Stanford Student Voices Student Voices George Kojo Frimpong Birikorang Caio Carcaioli Bonin Mia Schaubhut Airin Brittany Valdez-Monroy Student Spotlights LSP Addresses Societal Issues Through Digital Posters LSP X Poster Gallery LSP IX Poster Gallery Contact Us Support LSP Main content start Welcome! The Leland Scholars Program (LSP) facilitates the transition to college for incoming Stanford frosh who may be the first in their families to attend college, attended under-resourced high schools, or are from low-income backgrounds. The program starts with a summer bridge experience in August, and continues with a first-year seminar, advising, and ongoing events throughout your time at Stanford. The application period for this year has ended. Applicants will be notified of admission decisions in mid-June. Follow us on Instagram @lelandscholars! Before your first quarter at Stanford, meet friends, learn about your new home, and get a head start on the next four years of your life! LSP Summer During fall and winter quarter of your first year, take a small group-oriented course designed to build community and student empowerment. The First Year Experience Find ways to stay connected to the LSP and FLI communities at Stanford! Beyond the First Year What you need to know What is LSP? What can I expect? Do I get course credit? The LSP Story As a team building exercise, LSP Students tackle the Marshmallow Challenge. Airin Brittany Valdez-Monroy LSP Cohort X "LSP was a huge factor and point of support during this transition. Being exposed to college-level classwork and rigor was especially helpful coming from an under-resourced community and school that didn’t prepare me. I was able to cultivate a sense of community and belonging in this new place I now call home." LSP in the News Recent gifts to the Leland Scholars Program will undergird the program's expansion for the next several years. Read the full story at Stanford News Get in Touch! Leland Scholars Program Sweet Hall 590 Escondido Mall Stanford University Stanford, CA 94305 thelspteam@stanford.edu Brandi Pretlow Director (650) 497-2922 bpretlow@stanford.edu Cecilia Martinez Assistant Director cmart17@stanford.edu Joy Robinson Program Manager (650) 497-1215 jrobins2@stanford.edu Web Accessibility Stanford University is committed to providing an online environment that is accessible to everyone, including individuals with disabilities. Having trouble accessing any of this content due to a disability? Learn more about accessibility at Stanford and report accessibility issues Stanford Leland Scholars Program Web Login Address Leland Scholars Program Sweet Hall 590 Escondido Mall Stanford, CA 94305 United States Visit Campus Map LSP Instagram Connect with Us Who We Are Connect With Us Resources for About VPUE About Academic Advising Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top