Programs of Study Film Film and Media Studies Theatre Visual Arts + Sound Art Writing Joint Programs Summer Programs Admissions Graduate Undergraduate International, Transfer & Special Circumstance Tuition, Fees and Financial Aid Policies and Processes Admissions FAQ Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Information Sessions Admissions and Financial Aid Staff Student Affairs Announcements Artists' Resource Center Commencement Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Interdisciplinary Arts Council (IAC) New Students Checklist Policies Resources Student Employment About Faculty Directory Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Inclusion Office of Alumni Affairs Office of Development Public Programs and Engagement Office of Communications Campus Information History Land Acknowledgement Academic Information News & Events Announcements News Archive Series Events Archive Now Students Alumni Sign Up Calendar Make a Gift Search Creative Work Apply New Plays Festival 2022 | Part II June 2–26, 2022 Columbia University School of the Arts presents an expanded festival of new plays written by Columbia MFA Playwriting Students. The esteemed faculty who have nurtured these students, including Tony©, Pulitzer, and Obie Award winners such as David Henry Hwang, Lynn Nottage, Charles Mee, and Rogelio Martinez, invite you to experience these innovative new playwrights. This is the second round of our New Plays Festival that runs through the summer presenting the work of the 2020, 2021, and 2022 Playwrights of Columbia's MFA Theatre Program. Organized by David Henry Hwang, Theatre. Featuring Good Things Happen by Martin Murray, People on Earth by Sam Grabiner, Eärendil, Our Most Beloved Star by Adam North, The Lark Ascending by Jacob K. Robinson, Bleecker Street Brides by Tatiana Kouguell-Hoell, GIRLHOOD by Ida Esmaeili, Jupiter by Ciara Ní Chuirc, and LOVE (Among Dreamers) by Greg T. Nanni. Festival Schedule Good Things Happen by Martin Murray Directed by Laura Dupper Thursday, June 2 @ 2:30 pm Saturday, June 4 @ 2:30 pm Saturday, June 4 @ 8 pm A working class mother finds a bag of stolen money - more than she could ever hope to earn in her lifetime. But what does the average mom even do with that much cash? And how far will she stretch her moral compass if it means making her family’s wildest dreams come true? Good Things Happen is a nostalgic neo-noir chock full of blue collar crime, money laundering, VHS tapes, phonebook deliveries, manifestation, and pepperoni pizza. More Details People on Earth by Sam Grabiner Directed by Keenan Tyler Oliphant Friday, June 3 @ 2:30 pm Friday, June 3 @ 8 pm Sunday, June 5 @ 2:30 pm An audience gathers. They sit in a circle. And the actors begin to tell them a story… We are in a prehistoric forest and the trees are dying. Two strangers meet on the outskirts of an ancient city. An iPhone buzzes in a small boat on a stormy sea at night. As epic as it is intimate, People on Earth takes us on a three-hundred-million-year journey from primordial extinction, through to the not-so-distant future. A play about human progress. And what is lost along the way. More Details Eärendil, Our Most Beloved Star by Adam North Directed by Ana Liza Muravina Thursday, June 9 @ 2:30 pm Saturday, June [email protected] 2:30 pm Jimmy Byers, a failed startup founder, gets a job working for reclusive billionaire Felix Marshall, whose investment portfolio includes everything from banking apps to cryonics. The strange requirements of the job include a regimented diet, constant travel, and no actual work. A queer gothic story set in the tech world, Eärendil, Our Most Beloved Star explores the nature of transactional relationships, and whether humanity has commodified everything, right down to the heart. More Details The Lark Ascending by Jacob K. Robinson Directed by Joan Sergay Friday, June 10 @ 2:30 pm Friday, June 10 @ 8 pm Sunday, June 12 @ 2:30 pm It’s the first week of advent at a megachurch in Texas and a congregant’s baby has died. Mike, the head pastor, is praying for resurrection. Tess, the worship pastor, is praying for release. Gideon, her husband, is just trying to help. And they’re all barely holding on. The Lark Ascending is a play about reckoning with a garden overrun with vines, about bolstering and faltering faith, about darkness and light and how, in the end, they might be the same thing. More Details Bleecker Street Brides by Tatiana Kouguell-Hoell Directed by Kat Yen Thursday, June 16 @ 2:30 pm Saturday, June 18 @ 2:30 pm Saturday, June 18 @ 8 pm Emmy is getting married today…right? While getting stoned with her grandmother in a bathtub on her wedding day, her grandmother warns her that two old family friends might be coming to the wedding: Sex and Death. More Details GIRLHOOD by Ida Esmaeili Directed by R Lee Kratzer Friday, June 17 @ 2:30 pm Friday, June 17 @ 8 pm Sunday, June 19 @ 2:30 pm In an Upper East Side apartment, seven teenage girls gather over the course of a year as they prepare for their debutante ball: a night which will ultimately change their lives in ways they never could have predicted. GIRLHOOD is a dark comedy that follows a diverse and tight-knit group of friends navigating the tragedies of adolescence, and the small cruelties they inflict upon each other while they look for their places in the world. They are funny. They are strong. They are deeply flawed. And they are figuring it out. This is a play about friendship. This is a play about growing up. This is a play about power, in a world where young women are told they don’t have any. More Details Jupiter by Ciara Ní Chuirc Directed by Kelly O’Donnell Saturday, June 25 @ 2:30 pm Saturday, June 25 @ 8 pm October, 1962. Richard, a speechwriter working in JFK’s White House, hasn’t slept in days – he’s overworked, terrified of nuclear annihilation, and even worse, he’s just been dumped. When the President asks him to write a speech declaring nuclear war (just in case!), it’s Richard who has a meltdown. Jupiter is a farce set during the Cuban Missile Crisis from both the US and Russian perspectives, mixing true history with fantasy to examine themes of self-determination, power, and the threat of nuclear war. More Details LOVE (Among Dreamers) by Greg T. Nanni Directed by Phoebe Brooks Friday, June 24 @ 2:30 pm Friday, June 24 @ 8 pm Sunday, June 26 @ 2:30 pm Morpheus, The God of Dreams, hasn’t felt their heart beat for a million years. In order to try to inspire themself to love again, they make a bet with Janus, God of Transitions, with their heart on the line. The bet: to bring two humans to meet every night in the cafe of their dreams, and see if they can fall in love and find each other in reality. More Details Ticketing details will be available soon. To stay informed, sign up for our event newsletter. These plays have been created by visionary writers under extraordinary circumstances. Some were originally scheduled to be produced as far back as 2020; others were written during the pandemic itself. Like theatre itself, they have survived the shutdown of our art form to come roaring back to life. We are so proud of what our writers have achieved during these challenging and traumatic times. Enjoy the rebirth! David Henry Hwang, Concentration Head, Playwriting 2022 New Plays Festival | Part I Featuring The Singularity Play by Jay Stull, La Sosa Sisters by Paola Alexandra Soto, birthday birthday birthday by Johnny G. Lloyd, Blanche & Stella by A.A. Brenner, Telo by Julián Mesri, and How to Gild an Eagle by Zizi Majid. News & Events Columbia Filmmakers Screen at Cannes 2022: 'Joyland' Takes Home Jury Prize Columbia Filmmakers Connect: Katharina Otto-Bernstein '92 more news . calendar Helpful LinksCOVID-19 Resources Policies Privacy Campus Maps Public Safety Lenfest Center for the Arts Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge FOLLOW US EmploymentNondiscriminationPolicies © 2022 Columbia University