Skip to main content 4 events this week Visit Events Current Events Past Events About Venues Lenfest Kids Calendar Make a Gift LENFEST CENTER FOR THE ARTS All guests entering the building must show proof of vaccination. Visitors 18 and older are also required to show an accompanying ID. Welcome Columbia University School of the Arts’ Lenfest Center for the Arts is a dynamic hub for cultural and civic exchange in Upper Manhattan. Featuring four flexible venues and a public plaza, this state-of-the-art facility offers unprecedented opportunities for the presentation and generation of contemporary art across disciplines. From readings and installations to performances, screenings, and symposia, the vibrant array of activity at the Lenfest Center for the Arts aims to strengthen local partnerships while highlighting contemporary scholarship, global perspectives, and compelling voices of our time. Upcoming Events Women and the Silent Screen XI: Women, Cinema, and World Migration June 1–5, 2022 New Plays Festival 2022, Part II more Ongoing Events Lenfest Kids Columbia University School of Arts presents Lenfest Kids, a monthly series of film recommendations and screenings for the whole family. We're celebrating the reopening of New York by dedicating this season to films set in this great city. more Subscribe to our mailing list Email Address Interests Family Programming Film Theatre Visual Arts Writing Email Format html text When we committed ourselves to the Manhattanville campus in West Harlem, we knew it would be essential for Columbia to use this opportunity to build exceptional spaces for our mission of teaching, research and creativity that make a difference in the world—and to do so in a way that benefits our city and community. - Lee C. Bollinger, University President Our goal is to create a welcoming venue where every space can be activated by the work of students, faculty and guest artists in film, theatre, writing and visual arts, opening our doors to new collaborations both across the University and our community, fostering connections to the always vibrant art scene in Harlem and beyond. - Carol Becker, Dean Columbia University School of the Arts Lenfest Center for the Arts 615 West 129th Street New York, NY 10027 · Privacy Policy · Press · Past Events · Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge Follow Us © Columbia University 2022 · · Nondiscrimination · Employment