Skip to main content 4 events this week Visit Events Current Events Past Events About Venues Lenfest Kids Calendar Make a Gift Venues Please note: All guests entering the building must show proof of vaccination. Visitors 18 and older are also required to show an accompanying ID. Venues The 60,000 square-foot Lenfest Center for the Arts features four double-height state-of-the-art venues: The Katharina Otto-Bernstein Screening Room, a flexible performance space, The Miriam & Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery, and The Lantern, an open presentation space. In addition, the building features rehearsal spaces, green rooms, administrative offices, and an open lobby and public plaza. For space use enquiries, please fill out this form. The Katharina Otto-Bernstein Screening Room The Katharina Otto-Bernstein Screening Room: a 150-seat theater with both advanced digital technology and 35mm archival capability, for advanced screenings, festivals, critical surveys, and new media. Flexible Performance Space A Flexible Performance Space: for original and reimagined theatrical work and performance. A wall of windows and exterior balcony provide sweeping views of Manhattan, Riverside Viaduct, and the Hudson River. The Miriam & Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery Columbia University’s premiere visual arts space, The Miriam & Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery presents exhibitions focusing on the contemporary artists of our campus and communities and new scholarship on the University’s special collections organized by graduate students and faculty in Art History & Archaeology and other Columbia scholars. The Lantern The Lantern: a sky-lit, open setting for an array of conversations on contemporary culture—from lectures by award-winning writers and theoreticians to workshops, charrettes, recitals, exhibitions, and interdisciplinary symposia on urgent topics of the day. Lenfest Center for the Arts 615 West 129th Street New York, NY 10027 · Privacy Policy · Press · Past Events · Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge Follow Us © Columbia University 2022 · · Nondiscrimination · Employment