Skip to main content 4 events this week Visit Events Current Events Past Events About Venues Lenfest Kids Calendar Make a Gift Lenfest Kids Rob King, Lenfest Kids Programmer and Professor of Film Lauren Weigel, Director, Lenfest Center for the Arts Welcome back to a new season of Lenfest Kids. The last few months have seen New York City slowly reopening. We're celebrating by dedicating this season to films set in this great city. We’ll be sharing family films that allow us to learn about the history and the culture of New York. Watch the videos included in the pages below to learn more from Film Professor, Rob King as he and his children share tidbits about films they love. Community Day 2022 After two years away, Lenfest Kids is excited to return to in-person screenings for Manhattanville Community Day on May 21st! Featuring Pixar's Wall-E (2008) and E.T. (1982). more Wonderstruck Lenfest Kids explores New York through the lens of Wonderstruck (2017), the film adaptation of Brian Selznick’s 2011 book of the same name. more Soul Lenfest Kids celebrates Black History Month by taking a trip to the National Jazz Museum in Harlem, where we learn about a style of music that is central to Black cultural heritage. Our movie recommendation is Soul (2020), which is full of New York-specific treasures. See how many you can find! more Mr. Popper's Penguins The film is based on a classic 1938 children’s novel of the same name, and it stars Jim Carrey, who some of you might recognize as Dr. Robotnik from the recent Sonic the Hedgehog film. more Miracle on 34th Street The film Miracle at 34th Street -- both the 1947 original, and its 1994 remake -- captures New York at its festive best, telling the story of a department store Santa at Macy’s. more Watch 'Phantom Boy' with us Lenfest Kids will present a FREE virtual screening of Phantom Boy, which can be watched anytime between December 27 - 31, 2021. This will only be available to those of you signed up to receive our Lenfest Kids emails. more The Greatest Showman Our first film this month is The Greatest Showman (2017), a musical retelling of the life of P. T. Barnum, who opened Barnum’s American Museum in 1841, in what is now the Financial District. explore Subscribe to Lenfest Kids * indicates required Email Address * First Name Last Name See the 2020 Program⇒ See the 2019 Program⇒ Lenfest Center for the Arts 615 West 129th Street New York, NY 10027 · Privacy Policy · Press · Past Events · Plastic Bottle-Free Pledge Follow Us © Columbia University 2022 · · Nondiscrimination · Employment