Jump to Navigation Lerner Hall Resources Where to Find University Resources Lerner Hall is home to a number of departments that provide valuable resources and services critical to the Columbia community. Floor 1E see floorplan Naval Reserve Office Training Corps (NROTC) Program Office The New York City Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) program includes students from Columbia University and Barnard College, Fordham University, SUNY Maritime College, and Molloy College. The goal of the program is to develop midshipmen during their undergraduate studies who will upon graduation commission as officers in the Navy and Marine Corps. The satellite office in Lerner Hall serves as an on-campus resource for Columbia students participating in the NROTC program, as well as interested applicants. Find the unit on Facebook and head to the general program website for more information. NROTC is part of the Naval Science Department. Phone: 212-851-9960 Floor 3W see floorplan Double Discovery Center Double Discovery Center, founded in 1965 at Columbia University, is a not-for-profit youth service agency for low-income, first-generation college-bound junior and senior high school students living and attending school in New York City. Through its two federally-funded education programs, Upward Bound and Talent Search, the Center offers year-round academic, career, college, financial aid and personal development services. Phone: 212-854-3897 Online: columbia.edu/cu/college/ddc Spring 2020 Hours Monday - Friday: 10:00am - 6:30pm Saturday - 9:00am - 5:00pm Lockers Lockers are available for General Studies students. The lockers are located on the 3rd Floor West Corridor. Please visit gs.columbia.edu/mailboxes-and-lockers for more information. Floor 4W see floorplan Berick Center for Student Advising The Berick Center for Student Advising (CSA) provides an integrated advising experience for all students in Columbia College and the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science. CSA brings together, under one roof, general academic advising, Academic Success Programs, the Columbia Undergraduate Scholars Program (CUSP), and the Office of Preprofessional Advising. Students are assigned a CSA advisor who strives to guide and support them during and beyond their time at Columbia University. The Berick Center for Student Advising will be open for phone or virtual appointments until further notice. Phone: 212-854-6378 Online: studentaffairs.columbia.edu/csa Office Hours: Monday - Friday: 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Walk-in Hours: Monday - Thursday: 3:00 p.m. - 4:30 p.m Floor 5E see floorplan The Food Pantry at Columbia The Food Pantry at Columbia is a student-run, student-managed initiative that is open to all students, whether you are an undergrad, a graduate student, or a professional student...full-time, part-time, or half-time. Any student who has any level of food insecurity can reach out to The Food Pantry to get a disbursement containing non-perishable food such as canned-meat, canned vegetables, canned fruit, cold and hot cereal, and vegetarian options. Any information shared with The Food Pantry will remain in strict confidence. Follow us on Twitter (@thefoodpantry) and Instagram (@thefoodpantryatcolumbia) or contact us via email at [email protected]. For more information visit thefoodpantry.studentgroups.columbia.edu Spring 2022 Open Hours: Lerner Hall, Room 582 Tuesday & Friday: 3:00 pm - 6:00 pm Floor 5W see floorplan Multicultural Affairs Multicultural Affairs offers students a variety of resources and programs addressing issues of diversity on campus, including race and ethnicity, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, and gender identity/expression. The office fosters an inclusive University environment through dialogue, interaction and exchange among all students. Phone: 212-854-0720 Online: studentaffairs.columbia.edu/multicultural Spring Hours 2020: Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Residential Life Residential Life is committed to providing learning opportunities that support the academic mission of the Undergraduate students in Columbia College (CC) and the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS). The experiences afforded to students in residence must help promote their intellectual, social, emotional and interpersonal growth and development. Residential Programs fosters environments that allow for the expression of individuality balanced with a shared sense of responsibility for the Columbia community. Phone: 212-854-6805 Online: https://www.cc-seas.columbia.edu/reslife Office Hours: Monday - Friday: 9 a.m - 5 p.m. Student Engagement Student Engagement is committed to building a strong sense of campus community, helping students enhance their leadership skills and engage in their communities, and to explore the co-curricular opportunities available at Columbia University. We forge a sense of community by providing opportunities for social interaction and student participation in campus and community life. Phone: 212-854-3611 Online: studentaffairs.columbia.edu/engagement Undergraduate Student Life Undergraduate Student Life is comprised of Multicultural Affairs, Residential Life, and Student Engagement: three unique areas that work in tandem to foster a vibrant and welcoming community through organizational advising, leadership development, advocacy, diversity education, community programming, and civic engagement. Phone: 212-854-3612 Online: https://www.cc-seas.columbia.edu/studentlife Office Hours: Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Floor 6 see floorplan Student & Family Support Student and Family Support, in collaboration with offices and departments across campus, works with parents and families to help them understand the Columbia student experience, support student learning, and empower students to take personal responsibility for their social and academic choices. Phone: 212-854-2446 Online: studentaffairs.columbia.edu/parents Email: [email protected] Office Hours: Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Undergraduate Financial Aid and Educational Financing Undergraduate Financial Aid and Educational Financing works with students and families from Columbia College and The Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science to develop a plan to pay for college. The office aims to help students achieve the goal of attending Columbia University and awards need-based aid to eligible students. Phone: 212-854-3711 Online: http://cc-seas.financialaid.columbia.edu Office Hours: Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Walk in Hours Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday: 9:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. Tuesday: 9:30 a.m. - 2:30 p.m. Floor 7W see floorplan Sexual Violence Response Sexual Violence Response (SVR) educates students about consent and coercion, promotes community standards for a respectful and safe campus, and provides comprehensive education and advocacy to support survivors of sexual and relationship violence. Sexual Violence Response is part of Columbia Health. Phone: 212-854-3500 Online: health.columbia.edu/services/svprp Spring 2020 Hours: Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 6 p.m. University Chaplain The University Chaplain works collaboratively with schools across the university to promote interfaith and intercultural awareness. With Columbia’s faculty, deans, administrative teams and students, Davis helps address issues of campus life in a diverse community of various religious backgrounds, beliefs, cultures, identities and values. The Office of the University Chaplain provides and fosters pastoral care and counseling, sponsors diverse programming initiatives, organizes University-wide ceremonies and assists in the development of University policy. The office helps respond to the individual and collective needs of the Columbia community by collaborating with other University departments. In addition to the office in 710 Lerner Hall, the University Chaplain has offices in Earl Hall and St. Paul's Chapel. Phone: 212-854-1493 Online: ouc.columbia.edu Office Hours: Monday - Friday: 9:00 am - 5:00 pm University Event Management UEM is a resource for students, faculty, staff and outside guests to help schedule and support meetings, events and activities in Lerner Hall, Low Library, Faculty House and outdoor grounds on the Morningside campus. Including Columbia Catering and Technical Services, UEM supports events of all scale. UEM is a department within the division of Campus Services. Phone: 212-854-5800 Email: [email protected] Online: uem.columbia.edu UEM Office Hours: Monday - Friday: 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Floor 8W see floorplan Counseling and Psychological Services Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS) offers psychological counseling to undergraduate and graduate students. Services include individual counseling, couples counseling for students and their partners, student life support groups, medication consultation, training and emergency consultation. When CPS is closed, a clinician-on-call can provide telephone advice about urgent mental health concerns. CPS is part of Columbia Health. Phone: 212-854-2878 Online: health.columbia.edu/services/cps Spring 2022 Office Hours: Urgent Mental Health Concerns Monday - Thursday: 6:00 pm - 9:00 pm Multicultural Concerns Drop-In Thursday: 5:30 pm - 7:00 pm Sex and Gender Identity Teams Thursday: 5:00 pm - 8:00 pm Office Hours Friday, May 27, 2022 4:40PM Office hours in the building vary. Check the department websites provided to confirm. Building Hours SUMMER 2022 HOURS Efective 5/20/22 Monday-Friday: 8:00AM - 8:00PM Saturday-Sunday: 9:00AM - 5:00PM Please note that Lerner Hall will be open 9:00AM - 5:00PM on Monday, May 30th, in observance of Memorial Day. Announcements Contact Us Hours About Lerner Hall History and Architecture Policies Food Computers Lounges Retail Resources Reservable Space Getting Around Lerner Search this site: Text Size -A +A Helpful Links Bookstore Directions Event Management Undergraduate Student Life Visitors Center Campus Map Disability Services Public Safety Columbia University in the City of New York Directory | Help Webmaster ©2022 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Helpful Links Designated Smoking Areas Dining Environmental Stewardship Event Management Facilities Faculty House Health Housing ID Center Information Technology Lerner Hall Mail Office of the Registrar Print Student Financial Services Transportation