Jump to Navigation Lerner Hall Policies Animals All pets and animals are prohibited from the premises of Lerner Hall, except service animals. Advertising All event marketing and promotions must adhere to the advertising guidelines for University Groups and Organizations as outlined in Essential Policies for the Columbia Community. Banners Recognized student groups and university department/offices that reside in Lerner Hall and administrative programs have banner – hanging privileges. Banner Hanging Area The south-facing area surrounding the Lerner Ramps starting on the 2nd floor on the campus side and ending on the 5th floor on the campus side are designated banner-hanging spots in Lerner. Lerner Hall administration has the authority to adjust the designated areas at any time based on the building’s needs. Banners hung outside of these areas are handled on a case-by-case basis in cooperation with advisors and Lerner Hall administration. Banner Parameters Banners can be no larger than 60” width x 60” long (5 ft. wide x 5 ft. long) and must be made from fire retardant material. The manufacturer must be able to verify in writing that the banner material is fire retardant. The material displayed on the banner (writing and art) may be anything related to the group/office, but the material must abide by the following criteria: · Accurate and/or not misleading (i.e. website is correct, what the group does is accurate, etc.) · Content must adhere to Columbia University’s Community Principles Statement and suitable for all ages, and various social and professional situations. Banners are reviewed for appropriateness by the group's advisor. Hanging Request Process/Procedure A request for an open spot can be made at any time on a first-come-first-served basis. Banners are permitted to hang for one academic year (September to September). Recognized student groups, administrative offices and departments requesting a banner can put in a request with the University Event Management Office: www.uem.columbia.edu | 212-854-5800. Recognized student group requests must be signed by an organizational advisor. After a banner has been approved by an advisor, the advisor will deliver the banner to Lerner Hall to be hung in the requested spot. Lerner Hall is responsible for hanging banners. Groups/offices may not hang or unhang their banners. Doing so will result in suspension of banner hanging privileges for one year. Groups/offices are responsible for any expenses related to their banner being hung. Building Entry Access for University ID Cardholders Columbia University ID cardholders must use a valid ID for entry to the building. Valid ID cardholders granted swipe access to Lerner Hall include Columbia University Morningside and Medical Center students, faculty and staff, as well as the affiliated institutions of Barnard College, Teacher’s College, and Union Theological Seminary. Guest Access Valid ID cardholders can host up to three (3) guests for whom they accept responsibility and must be present with at all times. When admitting guests, both the ID cardholder and guest(s) must show identification to the desk attendant. Guest(s) ID will be scanned and a pass will be issued. ID cardholders that will also be granted guest access to the building include Alumni cardholders, Visitors Center guests, Health Sciences cardholders, Visiting Scholars, Jewish Theological Seminary cardholders, and other special cardholders as approved. Guests Visiting Lerner Offices Entrance beyond the Lerner Hall Lobby is limited to CUID holders. Persons desiring building access require authorization. Building tenants may leave a daily access list of expected visitors at the Welcome Desk prior to the visitor's arrival. Visitors and guests are required to show identification and sign in before receiving a visitor’s pass. If a visitor’s name is not on the access list, the visitor will be announced to the office before entry. Responsibilities of Hosts Those hosting a guest(s) in the building are responsible for the actions of their guests. Inappropriate behavior by either party can result in the revocation of Lerner guest-access privileges. Public Safety will maintain a list of guests/visitors who are not permitted access to Lerner Hall and a list of hosts who are no longer permitted to sign in guests. General Use and Safety Policies Catering Columbia University Catering, part of University Event Management (UEM), is the exclusive catering provider for Lerner Hall. However, Recognized Student Groups are permitted to have food delivered or purchase food and beverage products from a commercial outlet for small scale events. For additional information please visit UEM online. Commercial Activity Only commercial activities authorized by Lerner Hall administration are allowed within the building. Damages Occupants, event sponsors and users are responsible for ensuring that no damage occurs to Lerner's facilities. Damage to facilities or equipment will be repaired at the expense of the responsible parties. Decorations Temporary decorations in meeting or event rooms and public space may be approved by UEM where conditions allow. No balloons are permitted anywhere in Lerner Hall. Balloons may set off fire and sprinkler censors. Any damages caused by the use of decorations can result in charges to the event sponsor. Materials, including printed materials, banners and decorations that do not follow the above guidelines or have not been approved will be removed. No decorations made from combustible materials (such as paper, plastic, cloth, etc.) are permitted to hang in Lerner Hall. Deliveries Personal, handheld deliveries such as flowers, take-out food, small packages, etc. may be announced at the Welcome Desk. All other major deliveries (requiring a hand truck or similar device) must be made through the delivery entrance on 114 Street. This delivery entrance is to be used between the hours of 8 a.m. – 4 p.m. There is a telephone located at that entrance to be used to notify the addressee at the time of delivery. Deliveries may be delayed or refused if not approved in advance. As a courtesy, small items can be delivered via the campus lobby if the delivery personnel has a picture ID and the Welcome Desk is able to confirm the delivery. Dress Code Shoes, tops and bottoms are required for entry into the building. Fire Safety New York City fire code does not permit live holiday decorations, such as trees or wreaths, in Lerner Hall. Artificial greens must have certificates of flame roofing. Open flames, such as votive candles and stenos are permitted at catered events supervised by UEM. Lerner Lobby Monitor The lobby screen above the Welcome Desk is reserved for announcements made by Lerner Hall tenants only. Inquiries should be addressed through email at [email protected] Lost and Found Any found unclaimed property can be turned in to a staff member at the Lerner Hall Welcome Desk. Items of apparent high value (e.g. laptops, mobile phones, electronic tablets, jewelry, etc.) will be turned over to Public Safety’s Lost and Found, if not claimed by the end of the business day. All other found items will be held at the Welcome Desk for as long as storage capacity allows. The Welcome Desk staff will make every attempt to contact the owner, if identification (name, phone number, email, etc.) is located on the item. Personal Storage Personal or professional items cannot be held at Welcome Desk. Posting Guidelines Bulletin boards are located throughout Lerner Hall and are intended for the use of recognized University organizations and departments only. You may post announcements, flyers, and similar material in these designated areas using tacks, pushpins, or masking tape. Boards will be completely cleared of all materials each Sunday night. Flyers, posters, or other printed material cannot be affixed to surfaces other than designated areas within the building. Ramps, Windows and Ledges It is strictly forbidden to throw or drop objects from ramps, windows or ledges, or sit or stand on a window or building ledge, or allow feet and/or legs to dangle over the edge of windows, ledges or ramps. In addition, no objects, banners, or flags may be placed on or allowed to hang over windows or ledges. Roofs and Balconies Only authorized University staff may access roof and balcony areas. Smoking Smoking is prohibited in any indoor area on University grounds that are open to the public. Under the City Smoke Free Air Act of 1995, the University has an obligation to inform persons smoking in a restricted area that they are in violation of state law and University policy. To support the health and wellness of all members of the Columbia community, the University has adopted a "consistent distance rule," specifying that smoking is prohibited outdoors within 20 feet of all University buildings (including undergraduate housing) on the Morningside campus. This is consistent with New York State law and public health best practices. Members of our community, including visitors, are required to follow Columbia policies. To comply with this policy change, receptacles have been moved at least 20 feet away from all campus buildings, including physical structures such as entrances, overhangs, and air intakes. For a map of designated smoking areas on campus, click here. Soliciting No commercial activities including (but not limited) to running a business or solicitation may be conducted inside Lerner Hall. This policy stipulates that solicitation is defined as, (but not limited to) in person, door to door, voicemail, email, US Mail, etc. Surplus Food In accordance with NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene guidelines for Food Safety and Community Sanitation, the Welcome Desk cannot accept surplus food from events. Weapons and Hazardous Material The possession or use of firearms such as air rifles, air pistols, ammunition or gunpowder is prohibited in Lerner Hall. In addition, the presence or use of explosive or combustible material, fireworks, knives, martial-arts weapons or other weapons considered to be dangerous is prohibited. Wheeled Devices Bicycles, skateboards, scooters, roller skates, roller blades and similar devices with wheels are not to be used in Lerner Hall. Bicycles, and scooters must be folded up and carried upon entry. Housing bins, dollies or other devices used for moving are not permitted on the Lerner Hall ramps. Announcements Contact Us Hours About Lerner Hall History and Architecture Policies Food Computers Lounges Retail Resources Reservable Space Getting Around Lerner Search this site: Text Size -A +A Helpful Links Bookstore Directions Event Management Undergraduate Student Life Visitors Center Campus Map Disability Services Public Safety Columbia University in the City of New York Directory | Help Webmaster ©2022 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Helpful Links Designated Smoking Areas Dining Environmental Stewardship Event Management Facilities Faculty House Health Housing ID Center Information Technology Lerner Hall Mail Office of the Registrar Print Student Financial Services Transportation