Jump to Navigation Lerner Hall Retail Where to Get Stuff Done Inside Lerner Hall, you’ll find the basic necessities—and then some—to support the daily lives of Columbia University students, faculty and staff. Floor 1W see floorplan Columbia University Bookstore Accessible from the first floor of Lerner nearest Broadway, the Columbia University Bookstore is located on the lower level of Lerner Hall. In addition to the course books ordered by faculty, the Bookstore stocks more than 50,000 general book titles and sells school supplies, computer accessories, dorm products, emblematic apparel and gifts. Phone: 212-854-4131 Online: columbiabookstore.com Columbia University Bookstore Hours Monday - Friday: 9:00 am - 7:00 pm Saturday - Sunday: 12:00 pm - 5:00 pm Floor 2E see floorplan Santander Bank Columbia's on-campus banking partner offers low-cost, full-service bank accounts for Columbia University students. Santander ATMs are located on the 2nd floor of Lerner Hall, next to Cafe 212. ATM access is only available during building operating hours. Hours: Monday - Friday 10am - 4pm ATM Hours: Available during building hours Tel: 212-284-0034 Ticket and Information Center (TIC) The Ticket and Information Center (TIC) by the Arts Initiative at Columbia University, is a full service box office. The TIC sells tickets and creates RSVP lists to any and all student and departmental events (performances, lecture, symposium, exhibitions) on campus, as well as discounted tickets to most major performing arts venues (from Broadway to Brooklyn) and movie theaters in New York City. The TIC is also an information hub for students, faculty and staff who want to know what's going on in the arts both on and off campus. Phone: 212-851-0419 Online: artsinitiative.columbia.edu The TIC is closed on all University holidays and during the Winter, Spring, and Summer breaks. Spring 2022 The TIC will be open this semester Thursday trought Saturday from 4:00pm - 8:00pm. Please visit the Arts Initiative website for more information. What's Open Now? Friday, May 27, 2022 12:41PM Columbia University Bookstore Santander Bank Announcements Contact Us Hours About Lerner Hall History and Architecture Policies Food Computers Lounges Retail Resources Reservable Space Getting Around Lerner Search this site: Text Size -A +A Helpful Links Bookstore Directions Event Management Undergraduate Student Life Visitors Center Campus Map Disability Services Public Safety Columbia University in the City of New York Directory | Help Webmaster ©2022 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Helpful Links Designated Smoking Areas Dining Environmental Stewardship Event Management Facilities Faculty House Health Housing ID Center Information Technology Lerner Hall Mail Office of the Registrar Print Student Financial Services Transportation