Jump to Navigation Lerner Hall Computers Where to Get Online Lerner Hall has wireless Internet connectivity, two computing labs and a number of ColumbiaNet kiosks within the building. ColumbiaNet Computer Kiosks Quick-use computer kiosks, geared toward accessing the Internet and email, are available on the 2nd Floor West and the 5th Floor West of Lerner Hall. Remember that these are shared terminals and you should always hit the “restart” button on the screen when you finish using them. Computer Labs Computer lab facilities are equipped with Mac and PC workstations and laser printers to provide easy access for students and faculty with valid University ID cards. The two largest lab locations on campus provide an academic-friendly environment to conduct research, complete homework assignments, and carry out electronic communication. The lab computers have high-speed network connections, along with Microsoft Office and other popular software. For additional information on labs and computer kiosks, please visit the Columbia University Information Technology website. For Computer Lab availability, click here Floor 2E see floorplan 2nd Floor Student Technology Lounge Students, faculty and staff, including affiliates of Teachers College, Barnard, Columbia Medical Center and guests authorized by Lerner Operations can access the 2nd Floor Student Technology Lounge anytime during building operating hours. Floor 4E see floorplan 4th Floor Computer Lab Access is only available during building operation hours. University ID card or Lerner Hall Operations authorization is required to use the 4th Floor East computer lab. For assistance with computers and printing, please contact CUIT. Website: https://cuit.columbia.edu/ Email: [email protected] Phone: 212-854-1919 The 4th Floor Computer Lab can be accessed any time the building is open. Computer Lab Hours Friday, May 27, 2022 6:55PM Computer Labs are open during building operating hours. Building Hours SUMMER 2022 HOURS Efective 5/20/22 Monday-Friday: 8:00AM - 8:00PM Saturday-Sunday: 9:00AM - 5:00PM Please note that Lerner Hall will be open 9:00AM - 5:00PM on Monday, May 30th, in observance of Memorial Day. Announcements Contact Us Hours About Lerner Hall History and Architecture Policies Food Computers Lounges Retail Resources Reservable Space Getting Around Lerner Search this site: Text Size -A +A Helpful Links Bookstore Directions Event Management Undergraduate Student Life Visitors Center Campus Map Disability Services Public Safety Columbia University in the City of New York Directory | Help Webmaster ©2022 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Helpful Links Designated Smoking Areas Dining Environmental Stewardship Event Management Facilities Faculty House Health Housing ID Center Information Technology Lerner Hall Mail Office of the Registrar Print Student Financial Services Transportation