Jump to Navigation Lerner Hall Getting Around Lerner Computers 2nd Floor Student Technology Lounge see floorplan This floor is on the east side of the building, closest to campus. 4th Floor Computer Lab see floorplan This floor is on the east side of the building, closest to campus. Reservable Space B-60 see floorplan This floor is on the east side of the building, closest to campus. Broadway Room see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. Jed. D Satow Room see floorplan This floor is on the east side of the building, closest to campus. Room 555 see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. Rooms 474, 476A, 476B, 477 see floorplan This floor is on the east side of the building, closest to campus. Rooms 568, 569, 570, 572, 573 see floorplan This floor is on the east side of the building, closest to campus. Roone Arledge Auditorium see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. Roone Arledge Cinema see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. The Austin E. Quigley Black Box Theater see floorplan This floor is on the east side of the building, closest to campus. Services Berick Center for Student Advising see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. Counseling and Psychological Services see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. Double Discovery Center see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. Lockers see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. Multicultural Affairs see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. Naval Reserve Office Training Corps (NROTC) Program Office see floorplan This floor is on the east side of the building, closest to campus. Residential Life see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. Sexual Violence Response see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. Student & Family Support see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. Student Engagement see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. The Food Pantry at Columbia see floorplan This floor is on the east side of the building, closest to campus. Undergraduate Financial Aid and Educational Financing see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. Undergraduate Student Life see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. University Chaplain see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. University Event Management see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. Food Blue Java Café see floorplan This floor is on the east side of the building, closest to campus. Café East see floorplan This floor is on the east side of the building, closest to campus. Ferris Booth Commons see floorplan This floor is on the east side of the building, closest to campus. Retail Columbia University Bookstore see floorplan This floor is on the west side of the building, closest to Broadway. Santander Bank see floorplan This floor is on the east side of the building, closest to campus. Ticket and Information Center (TIC) see floorplan This floor is on the east side of the building, closest to campus. Lounges Lerner Central see floorplan This floor is on the east side of the building, closest to campus. Announcements Contact Us Hours About Lerner Hall History and Architecture Policies Food Computers Lounges Retail Resources Reservable Space Getting Around Lerner Search this site: Text Size -A +A Helpful Links Bookstore Directions Event Management Undergraduate Student Life Visitors Center Campus Map Disability Services Public Safety Columbia University in the City of New York Directory | Help Webmaster ©2022 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Helpful Links Designated Smoking Areas Dining Environmental Stewardship Event Management Facilities Faculty House Health Housing ID Center Information Technology Lerner Hall Mail Office of the Registrar Print Student Financial Services Transportation