Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth The Leslie Center for the Humanities Contact Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Humanities.Center@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home About About the Leslie Center IDE Statement People Back to Top Nav Humanities Networks Faculty Faculty Funding Opportunities Article Review Manuscript Reviews Research and Work Groups Humanities Institute Grants Internal and External Opportunities and Announcements Funding Sources Back to Top Nav Students Student Research Fellowships Student Professional Development Fellowships Back to Top Nav Postdocs About Fellowships Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowships Back to Top Nav News & Events Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Evolution of Fish The Environmental Humanities presents a lecture by digital artist Tamiko Thiel on her Augmented Reality work "Evolution of Fish" on the intersection between digital technology, visual art, and ecological awareness, Thursday, May 12, 5:00 to 6:00 pm. "Communion" with Anna Zamecka Film director Anna Zamecka will be at Dartmouth College for a screening of her 2016 documentary film, "Communion", Friday, May 6 at 7:00 PM. Failure is Our Greatest Option: The Question of Reading and the Politics of Literature The interdisciplinary conference, "Failure Is Our Only Option: The Question of Reading and the Politics of Literature", will take place at Dartmouth Tuesday, May 10 and Wednesday, May 11, 2022. Bad Environmentalism and Beyond The Anthropocene Group presents "Bad Environmentalism and Beyond" with Nicole Seymour (California State University, Fullerton), Thurs. May 5th, at 4:30 PM. In the Wake of the Plague: Eros & Mourning "In the Wake of the Plague" is an interdisciplinary symposium that adopts philosophical, aesthetic, classical, political, medical, and clinical perspectives. Events will be held April 21-24th, 2022 at Dartmouth College. Spring Eisner Lecture: Roxane Gay in Conversation with Whit Taylor Award-winning and renowned writer and creator, Roxane Gay, is the featured speaker for the Eisner Lecture in conversation with award-winning comics creator Whit Taylor, Thursday, March 31 at 3:00 pm. Interviewing Egypt's Vanishing Jewish Community Eliza Helmers '22 is basing her senior honors thesis on intensive fieldwork. The Uprooting Medea Tour Khameleon Productions presents the "Uprooting Medea" tour, which will visit Dartmouth College, Thursday March 3rd through Saturday March 5th, 2022. Panama in Black Professor Kaysha Corinealdi (Emerson) will present a lecture on her book, "Panama in Black: Afro-Caribbean World Making in the Twentieth Century" (Duke Univ. Press 2022), Tues. February 22, 5-6:30 pm. Write to Reach an International Humanities Audience Rabea Rittgerodt and Irene Kacandes will discuss publishing with the academic press De Gruyter Verlag, Thur. March 3 at 4:00 pm, with individual faculty meetings on Fri. March 4, 2022. Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowships at Dartmouth With the generous support of the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, Dartmouth will be accepting applications for two postdoctoral fellowships in the humanities from Fall 2022 to the end of Spring 2024. These fellowships foster the academic careers of scholars who have recently received their Ph.D. degrees by permitting them to pursue their research while gaining mentored experience as teachers and members of the departments and/or programs in which they are housed. More information regarding the Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowship at Dartmouth is available HERE. Student Funding Opportunities The Leslie Center offers to two kinds of funding to Dartmouth students pursuing research and career opportunities in the humanities: Student Research Fellowships and Student Professional Development Fellowships. Student Research Fellowships offer up to $1,500 for faculty-supervised research or creative projects in the humanities. Student Professional Development Fellowships offer up to $1,500 for participation in unpaid internships or attendance at scholarly meetings.learn more Faculty Project Funding The Leslie Center awards fellowships to full- or part-time faculty of any rank, undergraduate students, and graduate students to support distinguished research or creative projects. Explore funding opportunites HERE. Events view all Jun 01 12:00AM Spring term classes end. Not applicable Undergraduate Academic Calendar Jun 01 6:30PM FILM 48.02/SART 17.20 Video Art Student Showcase VAC 001 Lower-level Auditorium Join us for the spring term Student Showcase of Video Art with Prof. Mary Flanagan. Jun 02 12:00AM Pre-Examination Break. Not applicable Undergraduate Academic Calendar Jun 02 12:00PM Democracy Will Win Exhibit – Discussion & Reception The Foyer of Baker-Berry Library What is the role of artists and intellectuals in safeguarding democracy? Join Distinguished Harris Visiting Professor Irmela von der Lühe and the Chair of Jewish Studies Veronika Fuechtner for an introduction to the exhibition Democracy Will Win, which details the anti-fascist activism of Nobel laureate Thomas Mann and its relevance for today. We will discuss particularly the role of his daughter Erika Mann (pictured). The exhibit is currently on view near the circulation desk at Baker-Berry Library. A reception will follow in the Treasure Room of Baker-Berry. With the support of the Jewish Studies Program, the Department of German Studies, the Dartmouth Library, and the Harris Distinguished Visiting Professorship Program. Jun 02 3:00PM Italian Major Presentations Hopkins Center Faculty Lounge (Room 205) The Dartmouth College Department of French and Italian warmly invites you to the Italian Major Presentations taking place on Thursday, June 2, 2022. Jun 02 3:00PM Junior Recital: Julia Battle '23, soprano Faulkner Recital Hall, Hopkins Center for the Arts With Henry Danaher, piano, and Marisa Natarajan, mezzo-soprano. Presenting works by Mozart, Donaudy, Faure, Vivaldi, and Schubert. Main menu Dartmouth College Leslie Center for the Humanities About About the Leslie Center IDE Statement People Humanities Networks Faculty Faculty Funding Opportunities Article Review Manuscript Reviews Research and Work Groups Humanities Institute Grants Internal and External Opportunities and Announcements Funding Sources Students Student Research Fellowships Student Professional Development Fellowships Postdocs About Fellowships Mellon Postdoctoral Fellowships News & Events Ribbon Footer People Director, Leslie Center for the Humanities Rebecca Biron rebecca.e.biron@dartmouth.edu Visit the Department People page. Find Us Address Haldeman Center 29 North Main Street, Room 263 Hanover, NH 03755Come find us! Phone: 603-646-0896 Fax: (603) 646-0998 HB: 6240 Email: Humanities.Center@Dartmouth.EDU More Contact Information Connect with Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback