/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Academics Courses Awards Guest Lecture Archive Current Graduate Students Faculty Faculty Books About Us Resources Staff & Contacts Support LGBT Studies Events The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: Interdisciplinary perspectives Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Studies Program The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Studies Program is devoted to the investigation of the complexities of sexuality and its importance to the organization of social relations more generally. Primary among its concerns is also the study of the lives, the politics, and the creative work of sexual and gender minorities. LGBT news Migrations grants fund worldwide interdisciplinary projects Cornell faculty and their community partners will tell the stories of local migrant farmworkers, use documentary film to better understand climate change and dispossession, learn how migratory birds are affected by drug trafficking and more. Read More Talks mark exhibits, campus LGBTQ milestones From April 27 to 28, the “Radical Desire” symposium brings pioneering lesbian feminist scholars, publishers, and photographers to speak at Cornell, in celebration of library exhibits that highlight the archives of lesbian erotic magazine “On Our Backs” and to mark the 30th and 50th anniversaries of ... Read More Talks mark exhibits, campus LGBTQ milestones The “Radical Desire” symposium April 27 to 28 brings pioneering lesbian feminist scholars, publishers, and photographers to speak at Cornell. Read More Situating Lesbian Desire: Staged Readings of The Climb by C.A. Johnson & The Gulf Audrey Cefaly Situating Lesbian Desire is a live staged reading of C.A. Johnson’s The Climb and Audrey Cefaly’s The Gulf, two plays that investigate gender, sexuality, and place. The Climb synopsis:  Marge is a photographer, and her wife, Tiffany, has been her sole photographic subject for seven years. When Tif... Read More Living Queer History: Remembrance and Belonging in a Southern City, A Lecture by Samantha Rosenthal on April 21 Living Queer History: Remembrance and Belonging in a Southern City, A Lecture by Samantha RosenthalQueer history is a living practice. Talk to any group of LGBTQ people today, and they will not agree on what story should be told. Many people desire to celebrate the past by erecting plaques and paint... Read More Classroom tips, resources provided in new LGBTQ guide Issued by the Provost’s Office of Faculty Development and Diversity and the Cornell LGBT Resource Center, the LGBTQ+ Resource Guide for Faculty and Staff offers best practices, including using gender-inclusive greetings in meetings and classrooms, integrating LGBTQ issues into curricula and hiring a... Read More New Cornell LGBTQ+ Resource Guide for Faculty and Staff March 31st is Transgender Day of Visibility. The Office of Faculty Development and Diversity and the LGBT Resource Center are excited to share with you the Cornell University LGBTQ+ Faculty and Staff Resource Guide. This guide is designed to support Cornell employees in creating an inclusive campus ... Read More Learn more about Fall 2022 FGSS and LGBT Studies course offerings Learn more about FGSS/LGBT Studies Fall 2022 coursesThere is a Virtual Pre-enroll Open House with Professor Jane Juffer, Tuesday, April 19, 4:30-5:30pm. Pop-in and ask questions about FGSS and courses offered in the fall.For the 2022 fall semester, Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies (FGSS) and ... Read More More LGBT news LGBT Studies 30th anniversary Get your glitter ready for the 30th anniversary celebration of Cornell’s Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Studies Program. Check back often for new additions and initiatives, which will be added throughout the year. We are collaborating with The Program in Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies, which turns 50! Explore more about LBGT Studies Academics Faculty Profiles Student Awards Course Listings LGBT Studies Events Jun 03 “Radical Desire: The Models of On Our Backs: The Pioneers of Lesbian Erotic Visibility,” gallery talk with Susie Bright Rare and Manuscript Collections, Carl A. Kroch Library More LGBT Events 180 Rockefeller Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Studies Program 607-255-6480 Twitter Instagram Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top