0 Skip to Content FAQ Events Student Staff Student Groups Initiatives Overview Peer Education LGBTQIA Oral History Project Q'nnections Resources Trainings Overview LGBTQIA+ 101 Understanding Pronoun Use and Inclusion! Gender, Sex, and Sexuality Creating Inclusive Forms Creating an Inclusive Classroom and/or Learning Space Split Attraction Model History of Feminism Request for Trainings Sponsorship Request Open Menu Close Menu FAQ Events Student Staff Student Groups Initiatives Overview Peer Education LGBTQIA Oral History Project Q'nnections Resources Trainings Overview LGBTQIA+ 101 Understanding Pronoun Use and Inclusion! Gender, Sex, and Sexuality Creating Inclusive Forms Creating an Inclusive Classroom and/or Learning Space Split Attraction Model History of Feminism Request for Trainings Sponsorship Request Open Menu Close Menu FAQ Events Student Staff Student Groups Folder: Initiatives Back Overview Peer Education LGBTQIA Oral History Project Q'nnections Resources Folder: Trainings Back Overview LGBTQIA+ 101 Understanding Pronoun Use and Inclusion! Gender, Sex, and Sexuality Creating Inclusive Forms Creating an Inclusive Classroom and/or Learning Space Split Attraction Model History of Feminism Request for Trainings Sponsorship Request Gender + Sexuality Resource Center The Gender + Sexuality Resource Center (GSRC) fosters a supportive and inclusive campus community for women, femme, trans, and queer Princetonians through collaborative programming, education, advocacy, and mentorship. We envision a Princeton University community of practice that affirms, uplifts, and celebrates women, femme, trans, and queer people and that actively resists sexism, cissexism, heteronormativity and other intersecting forms of oppression on campus and beyond. In many different ways, our center strives to expand who we are and who we serve. Much like queer communities have adapted the plus to signify that there are a host of other ways you can identify and still belong; we acknowledge this as a central part of our work. The plus also stands for the intersections of our identities and how they can shift and interact with each other. We serve marginalized groups in gender and sexuality spaces and therefore acknowledge that race, class, disability, religion, body size, and many other aspects of our identities add so much more to our experiences of the world. Kristopher Oliveira Assistant Dean for Diversity and Inclusion and Director Pronouns: he/him kaoliveira@princeton.edu Eric Anglero Assistant Director, Education, Outreach, and Training Pronouns: they/them eanglero@princeton.edu Grace Davis Program Coordinator, Women and Femme Identities Pronouns: all pronouns gd3774@princeton.edu June Scafiro Program Coordinator, LGBTQIA+ Identities Pronouns: She/they js2836@princeton.edu Gender + Sexuality Resource Center Values We believe in inclusive and participatory engagement that encompasses all gender identities through lived experiences in a way that allows everyone to contribute their talents, gifts, and knowledge to the Princeton community. We seek to identify, address, and reduce racism, heterosexism, patriarchy, misogynoir misogyny, cissexism, ableism, and other forms of discrimination. We center the needs and experiences of queer and trans community members. We serve the campus community through training, consultation, and advocacy. We recognize that the Center's work is based on the needs, interests, and passions of our students, faculty, staff, and community members. Our values of empathy, respect, and dignity of others are drivers of our programming and initiatives. We approach our work with a historical analysis of discrimination and injustice to intentionally and equitably serve the campus. We believe there is no one way to be femme and/or LGBTQIA at Princeton. We strive to establish a community of engagement where all undergraduate and graduate students, post-docs, staff, and faculty of all identities are welcomed. We affirm the complexity of marginalized intersectional identities and acknowledge the different levels of institutional inequities faced in the Princeton community and beyond. We recognize that everyone is at a different place in their learning processes; thus, we actively embrace and support differences to authentically engage. We aim to deepen and develop partnerships, both inside and outside the university, to make our work more effective and far-reaching.