Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Borrow & Request Request articles, books & more Retrieve from Shelf KU students, faculty, staff, affiliates, and active resident and reciprocal borrowers may request specific eligible items to be pulled for pickup through our Retrieve from Shelf process. Retrieve from Shelf is a service that will pull KU Libraries materials from the shelves and make them available for checkout at the service desks in Watson Library, Anschutz Library, Art & Architecture Library, Music & Dance Library, or Wheat Law Library. Requestors will receive an Item Available Notice via email when items are ready to be checked out. Who can use Retrieve from Shelf service? Any eligible KU Libraries patron may use this service. How do I place a Retrieve from Shelf request? Find an item in Quick Search or the Catalog Sign in to your account In "Get It" (Quick Search) or "Recalls & Requests" (Catalog), choose "Retrieve from Shelf" Complete the form and select the library pickup location. Items are delivered to the selected library location for pickup. Items will be available for pickup after you receive the Item Available Notice via email. Items will remain available for pickup for 10 days from the day that you receive your Item Available Notice. What items are eligible for Retrieve from Shelf? KU owned items including most books, some bound journals, some micro format materials, and some videos. All items located at the KU Library Annex. How long will it take to receive my items? Items should be available to you typically within 3-5 working days. Turnaround time excludes weekends and university holidays. Is there a limit on the number of items I can request? Although it is not our intent to limit the number of items an eligible person may request, the library will reserve the right to process no more than ten items per person per day when there is a heavy demand for the Retrieve from Shelf. I got the following error: "Your Patron Initiated Call Slip Request failed. You have placed the maximum number of Call Slip requests." What do I do now? As stated above, there is no limit imposed by the system on the number of requests that you may place. In most cases this error happens when you either miskeyed your barcode or last name when logging in to place your request. To clear the error you will need to completely close out of your browser window and start over. If you still have problems then please contact us. I received a cancellation notice. What are my options for getting my materials now? Most items that are canceled by this service are items that couldn't be located on the shelves and have been declared missing by staff and placed on search. Some items will turn up after extensive searching but it is suggested that if you need the item quickly to request it via Interlibrary Loan using WebRetrieve. When placing your Interlibrary Loan request please choose the Request a Loan > Not Available at KU. If you ever have a question regarding a cancellation notice please contact us at ILLLend@ku.edu. Who can I contact if I have questions? Staff who handle Retrieve from Shelf requests can be contacted via phone at 785-864-3960 or via email at ILLLend@ku.edu. Contact Acquisitions and Resource Sharing Watson Library Room 210 acqrs@ku.edu 785-864-3960 Services Request articles, books & more Document Delivery Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Retrieve from Shelf TripSaver Home Loan Delivery GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Info for other libraries Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.