Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Locations & Hours Spaces and Technology KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Overview The library instruction rooms in Watson and Anschutz Libraries are intended to provide library personnel with teaching facilities for student, faculty, staff, and community learning. They are not intended to accommodate semester-long (16-week) courses, nor are they available to be used as classrooms by faculty outside of the library (i.e., without course-related involvement by librarians or library staff). Use of the classrooms is scheduled each semester according to priority of use (see list below) within the aims of the libraries’ instructional programming: Library and technology based classes, workshops, or seminars KU course-related library instruction sessions taught by or with a librarian or technology trainer Library staff instruction, training and development programs or workshops Other college and university course-related instruction sessions focused on library resources and coordinated through the KU Libraries instructional programming University of Kansas short courses, institutes, workshops and seminars focused on use of our resources and taught by or with other KU faculty Other groups when appropriate Bumping Rights When a room is needed for library, technology, or course-related instruction, those who have reserved it for activities 3-6 may be asked to relocate elsewhere (with no fewer than seven days’ notice). This decision will be made by the Director of Public Operations in consultation with the Associate Deans of Cataloging and Access Services. Non-Library Requests As library instruction requests cannot be predicted, non-library events, classes, or sessions are not normally scheduled in these rooms. Other requests for the use of these rooms from the KU faculty and administration will be accommodated when possible, but will not be scheduled more than 14 days before an event during the semester. Rooms are scheduled only when the Libraries are open. All requests for the approval of non-library sponsored events should be directed to liblabreserve@ku.edu. Final approval for such requests will be determined by the Director of Operations in consultation with the Associate Deans of Cataloging and Access Services. Peak Use Periods Typically, during the first six weeks of the fall and spring semesters, library and technology instruction is at its peak. During these times, access to the labs will be closely monitored in order to accommodate these activities. Library Instruction Rooms Clark Instruction Center, Watson Library (CIC) The CIC is an active learning classroom equipped with flexible furniture, laptops, large monitors, whiteboards, and an instructor workstation. Because this room is designed to allow students to learn by doing, sessions that include hands-on work will be given priority. Other sessions should be scheduled in alternate spaces. Groups of 20 or more will be given priority use of this room. Maximum room capacity: 50 Anschutz Instruction Center, Anschutz Library Room 321 Located near the entrance and service desk, the Anschutz Instruction Center is an active learning classroom. The room design features three large monitors, whiteboards and flexible furniture for student-centered, collaborative learning. This space is not equipped with computers but the instruction workstation and AV setup are optimized for zoom/hybrid instruction. Laptops are available by request. Maximum room capacity: 20 Music & Dance Library, Seminar Room 240A Large seminar room with many small tables and chairs that can be re-arranged. Projector with PC and laptop adapter cables. Full sound system including radio, vinyl player, CD player, VHS player, and DVD player. Also includes and upright piano, white board, and chalk board with staves. Priority will be given to Faculty and Staff use. Maximum room capacity: 40 Spencer Research Library Instruction Rooms Instructors who wish to use Spencer Library collections and services for their classes may apply to use one of the Library's three instruction rooms, for semester-long or single-session use. Please see Spencer Research Library Classes and Tours for more information Other Labs (non-library) (Reservable at Campus Computer Labs) Laptops Laptops are available for checkout at our information desks. This is an option when trying to accommodate classes that exceed the lab’s workstation availability, or when a lab environment is not available. NOTE: Contact Christen Caton (ccaton@ku.edu; 864-1330) or Scott Cossel (scossel@ku.edu, 864-4599) with at least 10 days’ notice, to reserve laptops for instruction. Reservations Library faculty and staff may reserve Anschutz Room 201, CIC, or 419 on the LibCal reservation system. NOTE on Lead setup time/ Lag breakdown time: Please try to avoid scheduling setup or breakdown times. If it is necessary to schedule setup and breakdown times, end the session on the hour or half-hour. Scheduling workshops that are advertised on the IT calendar If the workshop is to be held in Anschutz 201, CIC or WATS 419, please first reserve the room in LibCal then follow the procedures to schedule at Campus Computer Labs If you have questions, please contact liblabreserve@ku.edu. Equipment and Software If you need additional or special software installed in any room, please contact Jeromy Horkman (jhorkman@ku.edu, 864-8948) as soon as possible. Policy Review The Library Instruction Room Use Policy will be reviewed annually. Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.