Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Locations & Hours Library Annex The Library Annex is a high-density storage facility for low-use library materials. The transfer of such materials to the Library Annex increases the space available for users in the main campus library buildings and provides conservation-level environmental controls for books and journals, archives and manuscripts, and rare and fragile materials. All materials in the Library Annex are represented in the Library catalog and may be requested for use. The Library Annex is located on KU’s west campus and designed on the Harvard model. It has an initial capacity of 1.6 million volumes. Contact the Annex 1880 Westbrooke St. Lawrence, KS, 66044 libannex@ku.edu 785-864-0488 Annex Statistics Over 2M Total items housed in the Annex 69.8% Of the Annex filled with materials 141K Retrievals to date 6.5% Percentage of item retrievals from entire collection Take a virtual tour Visit the Library Annex virtually and learn about the process of storing print materials for KU Libraries. Frequently Asked Questions Where is the Library Annex? The Library Annex is located on the University of Kansas West Campus at 1880 Westbrooke St. The Annex is south of Bob Billings Parkway between Kasold Drive and Crestline Road. What is shelved in the Annex? Low-use material in any format or subject area may be considered for transfer to the Library Annex. In addition, old and fragile material, archival material and manuscripts and material with online counterparts may be considered for shelving in the Library Annex. What are the hours? The Library Annex is staffed Monday-Friday. The Annex is a secure, locked facility. All visits must be arranged in advance. Can I visit for on-site use? The facility has a reading room available for those who wish to consult long journal runs. Use of materials on-site requires advance arrangements in order to give staff time to retrieve needed materials. The facility does not offer photocopy, fax, or scanning equipment. Spencer Research Library collections stored at the Annex must be used in the Spencer Reading Room. Contact us at libannex@ku.edu to view materials on-site. What is the capacity? The current building has a capacity of nearly 3.2 million volumes and additional cold storage for film media. The site plan provides for the expansion of 2 additional storage modules with a total book storage capacity of approximately 6 million volumes. How do I request an item? Circulating items placed in the Library Annex can be identified by the shelving location reported in the record display. To borrow an item located in the Library Annex, submit a request through the KU Library Catalog using the Retrieve from Shelf request . Library Annex materials may be requested for use at almost any library location. Non-circulating items placed in the Library Annex can be identified by the shelving location reported in the record display. For more details about how to request specific items, please see the Library Annex Requests section of the Recalls and Requests policy. Where can I pick up materials? Library staff will retrieve materials from the Library Annex and place them on hold at the requestor's designated pick-up location (any of the libraries' circulation desks), usually within 24 hours of the request, Monday through Friday. Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.