Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Research & Teaching Research Data Management Document Your Data Help your future self. Document your data now to understand and use it later. Documentation also enables data sharing and reuse. Data collection site, recording method, unit of measurement: these are just a few essential pieces of information about your data. Informal Documentation Effective data documentation does not require complex tools. A text editor or lab notebook can be used to document data. Tools, formats, and methods for data documentation can vary by discipline and even by lab or research group. Read Me files A Read Me is a file created using a plain text editor and saved using the name README.txt. A Read Me file is a very flexible form of documentation. It can describe the context of a project, the contents of a folder, or any other information that you will need later. Create and save a Read Me using plain text (.txt) to ensure the file is readable now and in the future. Further resources for creating Read Me documents: Introduction to Read Me files (Data Ab Initio blog by Kristin Briney) Guide to writing Read Me metadata (Cornell University Research Data Management Service Group) Read Me elements and template for data deposit (Georgia Tech Library) Data Dictionaries A data dictionary describes the contents of a structured data set in a file that's separate from the data itself. Data dictionaries document necessary information for interpreting the data now and reusing the data in the future. Kristin Briney's Data Ab Initio blog includes an informative post about data dictionaries. Templates A template is a way to remind yourself and your research partners to record essential information about a project or data. Templates are helpful for ensuring consistency over time. You can create as many templates as you need and use them with paper and pen or with a computer. Kristin Briney's Data Ab Initio blog includes a helpful post about templates. Formal Metadata The choice to use a formal metadata scheme is often dictated by the discipline from which the data originates. Committing to a formal scheme requires knowledge of the scheme and the tools that support its creation and use. Common descriptive metadata standards with wide adoption include: Dublin Core A general specification for describing many kinds of resources DDI (Data Documention Initiative) An international, XML-based metadata specification for social and behavioral sciences data EML (Ecological Metadata Language) An XML-based modular metadata specification designed for and by the ecology discipline ISO 191 Series (International Organization for Standardization) An international set of standards for documenting geospatial data, managed by ISO Technical Committee 211 Tools for Creating Metadata Colectica for Excel A free Excel plug-in used to document spreadsheet data using the DDI specification Extended Attributes for SAS 9.4 and higher A SAS Enterprise Guide add-in to describe variable attributes using the DDI specification Morpho A KNB (Knowledge Network for Biocomplexity) application that allows scientists to describe their data sets in the EML specification and share their descriptions and data via KNB Metacat Other DDI tools A list of metadata tools maintained by the DDI Alliance GIS and Data Contacts Research Data Jamene Brooks-Kieffer, Data Services Librarian Watson Library jamenebk@ku.edu 785-864-5238 Digital Humanities Watson Library Institute for Digital Research in the Humanities idrh@ku.edu More Research Data Management Organize Your Data Store Your Data Share Your Data Data Management Plans Research Data Management Home Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.