Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Research & Teaching Research Data Management Store Your Data Help your future self. Store and back up your data according to good practices. Have confidence that your hard work won't be lost to a computer crash, theft, disaster, or other misfortune. Data storage services at KU Research Security Support at KU Data classification and handling at KU Store data using the 3-2-1 rule Maintain 3 copies of your data Keep 2 copies locally on different kinds of media Keep at least 1 copy in a different geographic location or in the cloud if data classification permits Choose reliable storage media Servers, computer hard drives, and external hard drives are more reliable than ephemeral media such as USB drives, SD cards, and optical discs (CDs or DVDs). Consider who is responsible for managing the storage medium. In the case of your personal computer, you are responsible. In the case of cloud services and storage offered by KU Information Technology, professionals with training in security and hardware management are responsible. It's a good idea to include at least one professionally-managed option in your storage portfolio. Consider appropriate security Data may be appropriate for public visibility, may need password protection, or may need special security because of its sensitive nature. KU's Data Classification and Handling Policy contains helpful guidance for thinking through the security levels and storage resources your data need. Back up data Abiding by the 3-2-1 rule will help you store multiple copies of your data, but it can't help you if you don't keep those copies in sync. Follow these steps to help you know that any copy of your data is up-to-date and ready to use: Back up your files automatically, if possible, by using a backup utility on your computer or a sync function on your cloud service. Note that cloud services sometimes are NOT appropriate storage locations for sensitive data! If you can't back up automatically, copy files manually. Schedule your backups at regular intervals, using your computer's backup utility (for automatic) or your calendar (for manual). Choose a time frame that's appropriate for how often you are changing your files and how important those files are. For example, you might back up critical, frequently-changed files every day but back up infrequently-used files only once per week. Periodically check and test your backup copies. Can you find, open, and use your files? A backup that isn't working doesn't help you. Back up your physical materials, too, such as notes, notebooks, and sketches. KU Libraries offer public scanners in many locations across campus. You can also scan physical materials using an app on your mobile device. The OneDrive app includes a scanner and can save files directly to your KU OneDrive storage space. Create and practice a storage plan For example: "I will save my files on my personal computer and copy them to KU OneDrive for Business and my personal external hard drive. I will schedule OneDrive to sync my changed files automatically and will manually copy files to my external hard drive twice per week. I carry my computer with me; my external hard drive will remain at my house; OneDrive is stored on Microsoft's servers in the cloud." GIS and Data Contacts Research Data Jamene Brooks-Kieffer, Data Services Librarian Watson Library jamenebk@ku.edu 785-864-5238 Digital Humanities Watson Library Institute for Digital Research in the Humanities idrh@ku.edu Data Storage at KU KU offers several data storage options for active and past projects. Contact us if you need assistance determining which is right for you. data storage options at KU Service Storage Type Access Cost Space Qualification Confidential or Sensitive Data? One Drive for Business Active Web, File system sync None 1 TB, with limitations All KU Yes, with limitations Research File Storage Active Mapped network drive None for 250 GB; annual cost per 1 TB 250 GB+ KU Departments, Faculty, GTAs, GRAs Yes, by arrangement Research Archive Storage Archival Mapped network drive, Globus Yes 1 TB minimum KU Departments, Research Centers, Faculty, Principle Investigators No KU Scholar Works Archival Web None 2 GB per file All KU No More Research Data Management Organize Your Data Document Your Data Share Your Data Data Management Plans Research Data Management Home Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.