Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Phog Allen Papers Forrest "Phog" Claire Allen coached basketball at KU from 1919 until his retirement in 1956. During those 37 years, much happened in the world of basketball and at the university. As these records document, Phog Allen was influential in the establishment of the NCAA national tournament and the introduction of basketball at the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin. Topics in the Phog Allen Papers include, but are not limited to, basketball conferences and tournaments; coaching schools; committees with which Allen worked; interactions with other offices, colleges, and schools at KU; the National Association of Basketball Coaches and the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA); physical education curriculum; how World War II affected KU; recruitment for KU Athletics; and correspondence with and regarding notable athletes. The records are organized alphabetically by topic and by correspondent's family name. More than 60,000 page images are available to browse. A complete description of the records can be found in the collection's finding aid. Browse the Phog Allen Papers The digitization of these materials was made possible through generous support, enabling us to be proactive in preserving our valuable collection of Phog Allen papers. This digital archive of historic materials extends the legacy of basketball at the University of Kansas, ensuring these important materials are available for generations to come. Highlighted Materials 1939 NCAA Tournament letter Letter Dr. F. H. Ewerhardt, NCAA Vice-President, to Gwinn Henry, KU Athletic Director, regarding the 1938-1939 National Basketball Association Tournament. December 12, 1938. View in collection 1940 NCAA Tournament Program National Intercollegiate Basketball Championship Tournament Program Cover, March 1940. This was the first year of what is now the NCAA Tournament. Phog Allen played a key role in the development of the tournament. View in collection Letter from Bob Dole, 1938 Letter from future Senator Bob Dole to Phog Allen, 1938. There are several letters between the two men regarding the recruitment of Dole for the KU basketball team. View in collection Basketball backboard practice shooting diagram Plans for a practice backboard showing shooting diagrams by the Fed Medart Manufacturing Company, April 6, 1939. The backboard was developed by Phog Allen. View in collection Goal-Hi brochure Goal-Hi brochure, 1940/1941. Goal-Hi is an outdoor game invented by Phog Allen. While it has virtually disappeared from parks and school yards today, it was extremely popular at Civilian Conservation Camps. View in collection Related Material Records from Phog Allen's time as the athletic director at the University of Kansas can be found at RG 66/11/4, see the Guide to the Phog Allen Papers in the Athletic Department Records. Digitized photographs of Phog Allen are available in the University Archives photos collection. Consult library staff regarding the availability of related photographs, biographical files, and scrapbooks. Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.