Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Borrow & Request Course Reserves Electronic Reserves About Electronic Reserves E-Reserves are electronically accessible, full text images of articles and short book chapters, that meet fair use copyright guidelines. They benefit students 24 hours a day, seven days a week access to course readings. Previous e-reserves services were discontinued in 2009. Using Blackboard to provide access to e-reserve readings will better protect the rights of copyright owners and limit any liability on the part of the university. Using Blackboard Faculty will create a course page for each class that they want to use electronic reserves. If you are new to Blackboard, go to Blackboard Training Resources for Instructors for assistance or contact blackboardsupport@ku.edu or 785-864-2600. Go directly to the Blackboard Login page. Determine whether the intended resources meet the "fair use" exemption: See the Copyright guide for more information. Adding Library Resources (after fair use determination): Library held resources can be added to your Blackboard account in three different ways: By linking directly to the electronically held version within the KU Libraries licensed electronic content. See Linking Directly to Electronic Resources By requesting scanning and electronic delivery of library held materials (some restrictions as to length/amount may apply) Submit requests through WebRetrieve, KU's Document Delivery and Interlibrary Loan request system. Electronic copies are supplied within 1-3 business days. The Libraries reserve the right to decline to scan any Course Materials that it deems violates Copyright Law. Self-scanning of selected materials The KU Libraries provides a variety of scanners, printers and copiers that are available for patron use. Checkout materials (when possible) for scanning back at your home unit/department. Getting copyright clearance If you have items that don't fall within "fair use," see the Custom Coursepacks section below. Custom Coursepacks Another option available for the electronic delivery of course content is the use of Coursepacks. These packs can be created in both print and electronic format and are useful if items for your course do not fall within the provisions of the "fair use" exemption. Submit coursepack requests through KU Bookstore See "Custom Coursepacks" at Jayhawk Ink. For questions about Custom Coursepacks, contact the Print Production Manager at 785-864-2470 or email: jayhawkink@ku.edu Library Support for E-Reserves Self-Service Scanning Equipment Fair use analysis and determination Digitizing DVDs/Videos for Classroom Use Linking to E-Resources On-site Reserves Services Warning concerning copyright compliance: The copyright law of the United States (Title 17, United States Code) governs the making of photocopies or other reproductions of copyrighted materials. Under certain circumstances specified in the law, libraries and archives are authorized to furnish a photocopy or other reproduction. One of these specified conditions is that the photocopy or reproduction is not to be "used for any purpose other than private study, scholarship or research." If a user makes a request for, or later uses, a photocopy or reproduction for purposes in excess of "fair use," that user may be liable for copyright infringement. This institution reserves the right to refuse to accept a copying order, if in its judgment, fulfillment of the order would involve violation of the Copyright law. Course Reserves Course Reserves Find Reserves Contact Us Reserves Service Locations and Liaisons For Instructors Electronic Reserves Options Linking to E-Resources from Blackboard Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.