Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Video Tutorials Welcome to KU Libraries This video provides an overview of KU Libraries online resources and services and what they can offer you as a student at the University of Kansas. View Transcript Ask a Librarian In this video you will learn how and when to use the KU Libraries Ask a Librarian service. View Transcript Welcome to Anschutz Library Learn about the services, resources, and spaces available at Anschutz Library. View Transcript Search Tips Combining Search Terms This video explores the effectiveness of combining search terms to narrow or broaden your search results. View Transcript Phrase Searching This video examines the pitfalls of phrase-searching and an easy solution. View Transcript Search by Truncation This video reviews another way to broaden your search results: truncation. View Transcript Scholarly Sources This video defines scholarly articles and explains how you might be asked to use them in future research projects. View Transcript Search by Publication Date This video considers another way to narrow your search by limiting your search results by publication date. View Transcript Search by Language This video explains another way to narrow your search results by filtering out languages you cannot understand and leaving those you can read. View Transcript Quick Search This video explains what you can find by using the KU Libraries Quick Search. Learn tips for using Quick Search effectively. View Transcript Keywords Watch this video to learn why keywords are important and how to come up with good keywords for searching. View Transcript Read It, Save It, Cite It Save For Later This video demonstrates different ways to save your research, so you can save time later and not repeat your previous searches. View Transcript How to Read Scientific Articles This work, “How to Read a Scientific Article,” is a derivative of “Breaking it Down: Scientific Articles” by Karna Younger and Rebecca Orozco used under CC BY. “How to Read a Scientific Article” is licensed under CC BY. Scientific articles can be intimidating to read. In this video, you'll learn some tips for reading these articles efficiently. View Transcript Finding Specific Items Watch this video to learn how to find an article that you already know you want. View Transcript Get Citations This video outlines the many ways KU Libraries can help you cite your sources for your research projects. View Transcript Can't Find It? This video details the simple process of locating and receiving research materials from other libraries. View Transcript Get Full Text This video shows how to locate full-text articles, which can speed up your research timeline. View Transcript Big Picture Using Google This video explains the benefits and drawbacks of using Google to find information. View Transcript Picking Your Topic This video explains the research process and provides effective strategies for producing a robust research topic. View Transcript From Idea to Library This video explains the process by which research makes its way from researchers' minds to the library's shelves and databases. View Transcript One Perfect Source This video underscores the importance of breaking your research topic down into subtopics to make finding relevant sources easier and more effective. View Transcript Peer Review in Three Minutes This video describes the peer review process for publishing research. View Transcript Evaluating Sources for Credibility This video provides an overview for determining if a source is credible and why it is important to use credible sources. View Transcript Wikipedia Beneath the Suface This video weighs both the pros and cons of using Wikipedia as part of the research process. View Transcript Citation: A (Very) Brief Introduction This video explains what citations are and why we use them. View Transcript Hack Scholarly Articles This video gives you tips to "hack" scholarly articles so you know what to cite for your paper. View Transcript Why Cite? This video explains why scholars use citations and why students should too. View Transcript Copyright In this video you will learn the basics about copyright, fair use, creative commons, and the public domain. View Transcript Source Types This video describes different types of information sources and how they might fit into your research. View Transcript Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.