Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Locations & Hours Murphy Art & Architecture Library The Murphy Art & Architecture Library, located on the first level of the Spencer Museum of Art, supports the teaching and research programs in the Departments of Art, Design, History of Art, Architecture, Urban Planning, and the collections of the Art Museum. The library's collection of more than 170,000 volumes documents the visual arts worldwide and from all ages. The collection offers visual and textual information in a variety of formats. Special strengths of the collection include art and architecture of the 19th through 21st centuries, architectural design, American art, East Asian art, Netherlandish art of the 16th and 17th centuries, plus the history and techniques of crafts such as ceramics, textiles, metalsmithing/jewelry. 1301 Mississippi St. Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-3020 Building Map Art & Architecture Hours Full hours listing Reserve a Study Room Study rooms are available to support academic study and research. Reserve a study room Ask A Librarian We can help with your research questions — contact us by chat, phone, email, text or at a Research Help desk. Chat with a librarian now! Located in Murphy Art & Architecture Reference Help Reference help is available for patrons when library is open, but more extensive help can be provided between 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. Monday through Friday. Reference questions also can be submitted by email through the Ask a Librarian service or by contacting the Fine Arts and Humanities Librarian, Andi Back. Subject guides To aid in research, visit these subject guides for art, architecture and design topics. Tours Tours of the Art & Architecture Library are offered before classes begin, both through the Hawk Week program and through special arrangements made by academic departments. Additional tours can be arranged throughout the semester. Class Instruction Customized instruction tailored to the class topic and to the learning goals can be developed that will teach students about the various information resources and services available to them. Circulation Policies The Murphy Art & Architecture Library is open to any on-site user. Our circulation policy differs from other library branches. Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.