For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism Position statement, goals, working groups, community engagement. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Gallagher Law Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us About the Libraries / Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism Working Groups Community Engagement Home / About the Libraries / Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism Info Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism Libraries Position Statement Equity is a core value of the UW Libraries. We believe that libraries have a central role to play in building a more socially just and anti-racist society. We bear the responsibility to investigate and dismantle policies and practices that perpetuate inequities and have devalued, neglected or harmed BIPOC and other minoritized communities. We are committed to engaging in an ongoing process of identifying and confronting ways in which organizational and institutional culture, bias, and discrimination may inhibit the lives and education of groups that have been marginalized in our society, on our campuses, and in our libraries. We actively support the University in advancing equity, sustaining diversity, creating inclusive experiences for all members of our community, and confronting institutional bias and structural racism. The UW Libraries, as a community, commits to identifying, resourcing, and implementing actionable next steps in pursuit of becoming a more equitable and anti-racist organization. This position statement builds on and complements the UW Libraries Values and Strategic Plan and the University of Washington Press Strategic Plan, 2019–2021. We encourage everyone to use all of these materials together as the Libraries develops actionable next steps. Libraries leadership commits to actively supporting work that advances equity, anti-racism, and social justice. Goals Identify and dismantle Libraries policies that perpetuate white supremacist practices. Acknowledge that these practices are often implicit and unrecognized. Hold ourselves accountable for inclusive and transformational institutional change by routinely seeking feedback from campus and community partners. Take responsibility individually and collectively for our mistakes. Commit to our own ongoing learning about the ways in which social justice and anti-racist principles can be applied to our work. Identify and address hiring and retention practices that have disadvantaged individuals from marginalized groups. Our goal for the 2021-2022 academic year is to map these commitments to our UW Libraries work, highlighting existing initiatives, and identifying and prioritizing actionable next steps and future tasks. This work will be inclusive of all Libraries staff with the strong support of Libraries leadership. Updates May 27, 2021 - An update from the Dean on Libraries EDI Progress Featured Work #BlackScholarshp: Faculty and Student Research Spotlight An Intersectional Lens: Towards Queer and Trans People of Color (QTPOC) Film Canon Critical Cataloging and Archival Description (8/2/21): UW Libraries statement on harmful language in catalog records and archival finding aids Participatory Design w/ First Generation Students Insights from Going Public Improving Accessibility During COVID Solidarity Statements UW Bothell Library UW Tacoma Library UW Special Collections Ethnomusicology Archives Critical Cataloging and Archival Descriptions Resources UW Libraries Research Guides Indigenous Studies Racial Justice Resources Immigration Resources American Indian Studies American Ethnic Studies Disability Studies Open Education Resources UW Bothell Libraries Social Justice Team Diversity and other resources at UW Other Library Resources OCLC EDI Initiatives University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.