For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism Position statement, goals, working groups, community engagement. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Gallagher Law Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us About the Libraries / Navigation News Events Exhibits Libraries Newsletter News & Announcements Libraries in the News Events & Exhibits Calendar Exhibits Guidelines Social Media Directory Home / About the Libraries / News Events Exhibits / Social Media Directory Info Social Media Directory Now you can keep up with updates from specific areas in the UW Libraries! Libraries and Library Units UW Libraries E-News (quarterly newsletter) UW Libraries Blog University of Washington Libraries @uofwalibraries @uwlibraries uwlibraries Digital Collections @uwdigini Digital Scholarship @ds_uw East Asia Library East Asia Library, University of Washington @uwealib @uwjpnlib (Japan Collection) Engineering Library Engineering Library UW Engineering Library Foster Business Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library UW Friday Harbor Library Government Publications University of Washington Gov Pubs Finds Health Sciences Library University of Washington Health Sciences Library @uwhsl Music Library UW Music Library Ethnomusicology Archives Ethnomusicology Archives @uwethnoarchives @uw_ethnomusic_archives Odegaard Undergraduate Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library @odegaardlibrary @odegaardlibrary Research Commons Research Commons News (bimonthly newsletter) UW Libraries Research Commons @uwrescommons @uwresearchcommons Special Collections Special Collections, University of Washington @uwspeccoll @uwspecialcollections History of Science and Medicine UW History of Science and Medicine Curator History of Science and Medicine Curator Labor Archives of Washington Labor Archives of Washington, University of Washington Friends of the Labor Archives @laborarchiveswa @laborarchiveswa Pacific Northwest Collection PNW Blog @pnwcurator UW Libraries Data Services Data @ Libs @UWLibsData UW Bothell and Cascadia Library Library Voices - Perspectives from library student employees at UW Bothell / Cascadia College Bothell Campus Library UW Tacoma Library UWT Library @UWTLibrary @UWTLibrary UW Tacoma Library Blog Library Staff Conor M. Casey, Labor Archivist, Director, Labor Archives of Washington, Libraries Special Collections Conor Casey (UW Labor Archivist) Patricia Devine, Community Outreach Coordinator, HEALWA @pat_devine Cass Hartnett, U.S. Documents Librarian, Government Publications @casshart Emily Keller, Political Science and Public Policy Librarian @eekeller Theresa Mudrock, History Librarian UW History Librarian New History Books Harry Murphy, African, American Ethnic, & Native American Studies Librarian @hrmaurice56 Lisa Oberg, History of Science and Medicine Curator, Special Collections UW History of Science and Medicine Curator History of Science and Medicine Curator Lauren Pressley, Library Director at UW Tacoma & Associate Dean at UW Libraries @laurenpressley Deb Raftus, Romance Languages and Literatures Librarian @uwdraftus Azusa Tanaka, Japan Studies Librarian @uwjpnlib Your new guide looks maravilhoso! J University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.