Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Locations & Hours Spahr Engineering Library Spahr Engineering Library was dedicated in 1988 and is named for the late Charles E. Spahr, a 1934 KU engineering alumnus, former CEO of Standard Oil Co. of Ohio, and KU benefactor who with his wife, Mary Jane Bruckmiller Spahr, made a major endowed gift to support the library. The library serves the research and information needs of students, staff, and faculty in KU's School of Engineering, and offers study spaces, as well as computer workstations and snack machines. Library materials can be returned inside or in the book return that is located on east side of the Spahr Library in the Eaton Plaza. 1536 W 15th St. Lawrence, KS 66045 Service Desk: 785-864-3866 Spahr Service Desk Hours Full hours listing Ask A Librarian We can help with your research questions — contact us by chat, phone, email, text or at a Research Help desk. Chat with a librarian now! Located in LEEP2 Book Return Return most of your checked out KU Libraries items to the service desk during operating hours, or to the secure book return slot immediately to the left of the service desk when the building is open. Vending machines Vending machines are located west of the Spahr group study rooms, which are operated by KU Dining Services, and offer beverages and snacks. Reflection Room A quiet, secluded, room on the second floor. The use of these spaces requires tolerance of all faiths, spiritual beliefs, and practices. Please follow these guidelines to help ensure a peaceful and safe experience for all. Brought to you by the Office of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Belonging. Study Spaces The Spahr Engineering Library includes spaces for individual or collaborative study, group study rooms, and desktop computer workstations (computer access for KU School of Engineering affiliates only). Reserve a Group Study Room Reserve a study room in LEEP2 through your KU email account, or by contacting the Engineering Student Success office. Subject Guides An introductory guide for finding research in the Engineering field, including links to relevant databases, books, patents, and more. Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.