Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Find & Access Articles & Databases Databases A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z 0-9 all AAPG digital library Contains full text content from publications of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists and some regional geological surveys. This online subscription is provided through the AAPG Foundation Digital Products Fund, by an endowment established by Kansas alumni William L. Fisher, M.S. 1958, Ph.D. 1961, and Marilee B. Fisher, B.S. 1958. Full Record AAS Historical Periodicals Collection Digital access to the periodical collections of the American Antiquarian Society (AAS), considered to be the most comprehensive collection of American periodicals published between 1684 and 1912. Full Record AASHTO Standards Contains specifications, test methods, and provisional standards commonly used in the construction of highway facilities. Full Record AATA online : abstracts of international conservation literature Contains editorially-reviewed abstracts of the international literature of conservation and heritage management. Full Record ABI/INFORM Collection Provides abstracts of articles on business and management from U.S. and international professional publications, academic journals, and trade magazines, and regional business publications. This also includes access to ABI/INFORM Dateline, Global, Trade & Industry, and Archive. Full Record Academic OneFile See: Gale Academic OneFile Full Record Academic search complete Contains full-text peer reviewed journal articles as well as newspapers, blogs, wire services, and general interest periodicals from across all academic disciplines. Full Record This resource is supported through collaborative efforts between the KU Libraries and the State Library of Kansas. Academic Video Online Contains a very large collection of the Alexander Street Press streaming video, including topics in history, art, international studies, dance, theater, and more. Full Record Access World News Features thousands of U.S. and global news sources, including wire services, popular magazines, newspapers, and much more. Full Record AccessEngineering Engineering handbooks and reference materials from McGraw-Hill. Full Record This resource is supported through collaborative efforts between the KU Libraries and the School of Engineering. AccessPharmacy This curricular resource for pharmacy education includes curriculum topics, organ systems, textbooks, drug monographs, lab tests, calculators, videos, case studies, and more. Mobile access requires a personal profile username and password. Full Record ACLS Humanities E-Book Collection Includes more than 5500 high quality books in the humanities and social sciences, covering a broad spectrum of subjects. Full Record ACM digital library Contains bibliographic information, abstracts, reviews, and full-text for articles published in ACM (Association of Computing Machinery) periodicals and proceedings. Full Record ACS publications Provides online full-text access to journals published by the American Chemical Society contained in two databases: ACS Web Editions and ACS Journal Archives. Full Record This resource is supported through collaborative efforts between the KU Libraries and the KU Medical Center. Aerospace Research Central Search the full text of publications of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA) from 1997 to the present. Full Record Africa Bibliography One of the most important current bibliographies for the study of Africa. Its geographical scope is continent-wide, listing monographs, articles, and chapters within edited works. Its subject scope is principally in the social and environmental studies, development studies, the humanities and the arts. The medical, biological and natural sciences are only selectively covered. It lists resources published in English, French, Portuguese, Italian, German, Kiswahili, Spanish, and Afrikaans. Full Record Africa-Wide Information Includes a collection of 50 separate databases that provide extensive coverage documenting research and publication by and about Africa and Africans. Contains news sources, scholarly articles, monographs, research reports, theses, and grey literature. For a listing of the databases included in each of these modules, as well as searching tips, see the LibGuide Africa-Wide Information (formerly, Africa-Wide NIPAD). Full Record AfricaBib.org A free online source that includes two databases: African Women Bibliographic Database and Africana Periodical Literature Bibliographic Database. The former has citations for English language articles, monographs, conference papers, theses, etc. published since 1986. The latter provides access to nearly 50,000 English language citations to articles published in 450 journals since the mid-19th century. Full Record African American Communities A diverse range of primary source material focusing on race relations across social, political, cultural and religious arenas. Full Record African American newspapers : the 19th century Search the full text of thirteen African American newspapers with coverage from 1827 to 1909. Full Record African American newspapers, 1827-1998 Search the full text of over 270 African American newspapers with coverage from 1827 to 1998. Provides access to primary sources for researchers across African and African American studies; political science; ethnic studies; diaspora studies; women's studies; and cultural, literary and social history Full Record African American Periodicals, 1825-1995 Features more than 170 periodicals by and about African Americans. Published in 26 states, the publications include academic and political journals, commercial magazines, bulletins, newsletters, annual reports, and other genres. Full Record African development indicators African Development Indicators (ADI) is the most detailed collection of data on Africa, containing over 1,600 indicators, covering 53 African countries and spanning the period 1961 to 2008. Data include social, economic, financial, natural resources, infrastructure, governance, partnership, and environmental indicators. For additional World Bank resources, please click here. Full Record African Journals Online Includes online access to the content of over 430 journals published in 35 African countries. These journals cover the full range of academic disciplines, with strong sections on medicine and health, agriculture, pure and applied sciences, environmental studies, and over two dozen interdisciplinary journals pertaining to African studies generally. Includes journals published primarily in English and French. User authentication with user name and password are required to enter the site. Full Record AGRICOLA Includes citations to material acquired by the National Agricultural Library and cooperating institutions and is the most comprehensive source of bibliographic information covering U.S. agricultural and life sciences. Full Record This resource is supported through collaborative efforts between the KU Libraries and the State Library of Kansas. AIAA Papers See: Aerospace Research Central Full Record Alexander Street Press This aggregated database provides access to all of KU’s Alexander Street Press collections. Video, audio, and text covering a wide variety of subject matters are included. In addition to contemporary sources, this database contains significant amounts of primary sources. Full Record All-Russia population census 2002 : Vserossiiskaia perepis' naseleniia 2002 Reproduces in electronic format the 14 volumes of the All-Russia Population Census--the first census in the Russian Federation--which took place on October 9-16, 2002. Census data and text are available in both Russian and in English translations. Full Record AllAfrica.com Provides easy access to the latest news from and about Africa, with over 700 news stories posted daily for all areas of the African continent. Also available is a 400,000-item searchable archive dating 1997 to the present. Coverage includes the contents of 127 currently published African newspapers, as well as news feeds from 330 additional African and international news organizations. AllAfrica.com is generally considered to be the best source for current news on Africa. Full Record Alternative press index Indexes the last twenty years of North America's alternative press, with citations drawn from alternative, radical, and leftist publications. Full Record Alternative press index archive Indexes the alternative press in North America, with citations from alternative, radical, and leftist publications. Coverage is from 1969 to 1990. Full Record Ambrose Video Search for and watch over 700 educational streaming vidoes, including all 37 of the BBC Shakespeare plays. Full Record America, history and life Indexes and abstracts the world's scholarly literature in the history of the United States and Canada from prehistoric times to the present. Full Record America's historical newspapers. Kansas newspapers Over two hundred Kansas newspapers from 1854 to 1981. Among those included are titles from the Sunflower State that are part of African American Newspapers, 1827-1998. This collection provides access to some years of the Emporia Gazette. Full Record America's news See: Access World News Full Record American Bibliography of Slavic, East European, and Eurasian Studies (ABSEEES) Covers North American scholarship on East-Central Europe, Russia, and the former Soviet Union. Contains bibliographic records for journal articles, books and book chapters, book reviews, dissertations, online resources, and selected government publications. Full Record American Civil War research database See: Fold3 Full Record American Civil War, letters and diaries Presents a collection of American Civil War letters, diaries, memoirs and biographies written between 1855 and 1875, including material that was previously unpublished. Covers the military, social, economic, and political aspects of the war. Full Record American Consumer Culture: Market Research and the American Business American Consumer Culture: Market Research and American Business, 1935-1965 - Contains thousands of reports commissioned by companies such as Philip Morris, Chrysler, Exxon and CBS on consumer goods ranging from tobacco and broadcasting to cars and hotels. Features the complete market research reports of Ernest Dichter, the era’s foremost consumer analyst and market research pioneer. Full Record American Consumer Culture: Trade Catalogues and the American Home Trade Catalogues and the American Home, 1850-1950 - Advertisements reflecting one hundred years of changing commercial tastes and consumer trends, attitudes towards race, the family and domestic sphere, and advancements in technology. Includes trade catalogues, cards and marketing ephemera. Full Record American Doctoral Dissertations This freely accessible database indexes thousands of theses and dissertations by American universities from 1902 to the present and provides links to full text where available. Full Record American Drama 1714-1915 Covers three centuries of rare and modern dramatic works that together have formed the internationally recognized voice that is American theater. More than 1,500 plays are available, from over 500 playwrights. Full Record American history in video This collection contains commercial and governmental newsreels, archival footage, public affairs footage, and important documentaries covering all aspects of American history. Full Record American Indian Histories and Cultures Search sources from the Edward E. Ayer Collection at the Newberry Library dating from the 1500s through the 1990s. Materials range from maps to manuscripts to newspapers and cover all of North America. Full Record American Indian Newspapers American Indian Newspapers - Publications of a range of communities, with an extensive list of periodicals produced in the United States and Canada, including Alaska, Arizona, British Columbia, California, Nevada and Oklahoma, from 1828 to 2016. Full Record American national biography online Access scholarly biographies of deceased Americans of significant historical importance. Full Record American periodicals Digitized images of the pages of over 1,100 American magazines and journals published from 1741 through 1940. Full Record American Prison Newspapers, 1800-2020: Voices from the Inside Contains the full text of over 450 US prison newspapers, including the Angolite and San Quentin News. Full Record American Proxy Wars: Korea and Vietnam: Global Perspectives Archive of television and radio broadcasts, periodicals, newspapers, and government documents related to every aspect of the Korean and Vietnam wars. Full Record American Race Relations: Global Perspectives, 1941-1996 Covers foreign reactions to America’s racial struggles in the mid-20th century, including segregation, race riots, arts and literature, Brown v. Board of Education, the Civil Rights Movement, the Black Panthers, Martin Luther King, Jr. and more. Full Record American state papers, 1789-1838 Search or browse U.S. congressional materials originating from 1789 and covering through 1838, including 1st Congress, 1st Session through 25th Congress, 2nd Session. Full Record American West This digital collection of primary sources from the Everett D. Graff Collection of Western Americana at the Newberry Library contains over 300 manuscripts, broadsides, maps, and rare printed works. Material in the collection ranges from 1722 to 1939, with the majority covering 1830 to 1839. Full Record Annee philologique Corresponds to the printed L'Annee Philologique, the international critical and analytical bibliography of ancient Greek and Latin languages and literatures and classical studies. This electronic version covers from 1928-2015. Full Record Annual reviews Due to budget constraints and an increase in cost of more than 300% from the publisher, the KU Libraries can no longer afford to provide access to the complete Annual Reviews Collection, therefore the Libraries will only provide access to these titles effective January 1, 2018. These titles can be accessed by searching the library catalog by journal title. Full Record Anthropology plus A combination of the Anthropological Index Online and Anthropological Literature, this resource indexes bibliographic materials covering the fields of anthropology, archeology, and related disciplines. Full Record This resource is supported through collaborative efforts between the KU Libraries, Kansas State University Libraries, and Wichita State University. AnthroSource Search the publications of the American Anthropological Association (AAA), including articles, books, and newsletters. Full Record AP images See: Associated Press Full Record Apabi digital library Over 2000 titles are included in the Chinese ebooks and eReference databases. The introductory guide with the Viewer information can be accessed from the main page top right corner "Help" link. Full Record Apartheid: Global Perspectives, 1946-1996 Traces the rise of apartheid from a global perspective, its effects on South Africa and the world, the defiance and revolutions that weakened it and its eventual collapse. Full Record Applied science & technology abstracts Indexing and abstracts from 1983 to the present for nearly 800 core English-language, scientific and technical publications. Full Record Arab-Israeli relations, 1917-1970 Chronicles the Arab-Israeli conflict from 1917-1970. This resource contains primary source documents that chronicle the politics, wars, administration and diplomacy surrounding the Palestine Mandate and the Arab-Israeli conflict. Full Record Archive finder A directory that describes collections of primary source material housed in thousands of repositories across the United States, the United Kingdom, and Ireland. Full Record ArchiveGrid Detailed archival collection descriptions concerning historical documents, personal papers, family histories, and other archival materials. Full Record Archives of sexuality and gender Contains primary sources on social, political, health, and legal issues impacting LGBTQ communities around the world with content from newsletters, organisational papers, government documents, manuscripts, pamphlets, and other types of records that sheds light on the gay rights movement, activism, and the HIV/AIDS crisis. Full Record Art full text Contains indexing and abstracting dating from 1984 for more than 600 periodicals and 13,000 dissertations on the subjects of art, architecture, urban planning, and design. Journals are primarily but not exclusively English-language. The full-text articles are from over 300 journals dating from 1995. It also indexes nearly 200,000 art reproductions that appear as illustrations for articles or advertisements. When combined with Art Index Retrospective coverage extends to 1929. Full Record This resource is supported through collaborative efforts between the KU Libraries and the State Library of Kansas. Art History Research net (AHRnet) Art History Research net (AHRnet) consists of five databases: Design Abstracts Retrospective (DAR), Arts + Architecture ProFILES, Review, Research Sources No.1: THE POSTER, and Research Sources No.2: British & Irish Architecture and Decorative and Applied Arts 1850s to the 1930s. Design Abstracts Retrospective is an ongoing abstracting and indexing service that aims to cover many of the most important design and applied arts journals published during the twentieth century. Arts + Architecture ProFILES is a dictionary of modern designers, artists and architects whose work is discussed in the journals covered by DAR. ReVIEW is an ongoing project to digitize many of the most important decorative and fine arts journals published in Europe and the USA during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Research Sources No.1: THE POSTER contains extensive information on poster design, including a number of digitized books on the subject from the 1890s-1920s. Research Sources No.2 provides access to digitized publications covering Contemporary British and Irish decorative, applied arts, and architecture from 1860-1930. Full Record Art index retrospective : 1929-1984 Art Index Retrospective provides citation indexing of fine art, decorative art, and commercial art journals, yearbooks and museum publications from 1929-1984. Uses English-language searching to cover periodicals published in English, French, Italian, German, Dutch, and Swedish. Full Record ARTbibliographies modern Citations and abstracts for 20th and 21st century art and artists plus photography since its invention in 1839; covers journal articles, books, essays, exhibition catalogs, PhD dissertations, and exhibition reviews; coverage from 1974. Full Record Artemis literary sources See: Gale literature Full Record Artemis primary sources See: Gale primary sources Full Record ARTFL-FRANTEXT Consists of nearly 2000 texts, ranging from classic works of French literature to various kinds of non-fiction prose and technical writing. The eighteenth, nineteenth and twentieth centuries are equally represented, with a smaller selection of seventeenth century texts as well as some medieval and Renaissance texts. Genres include novels, verse, theater, journalism, essays, correspondence, and treatises. Subjects include literary criticism, biology, history, economics, and philosophy. Full Record ARTIFEX Digital Catalogues See: Cahiers d’Art Institute (CDAI) Full Record Arts and humanities citation index The online version of Arts and Humanities Citation Index has been incorporated into the Web of Science database. Full Record Arts: Search See: Art History Research net (AHRnet) Full Record ARTstor Provides more than one million digital images in the arts, architecture, humanities, and sciences with an accessible suite of software tools for teaching and research. Available features include: searching, browsing, and organizing images, adding images, presenting images, and integrating with courseware. For detailed information about content and usage, see ARTstor Help and Tutorials. For professor account details, contact acqrs@ku.edu. You will need to register and create a personal account on the ARTStor site. Full Record Arxiv.org e-print archive Collection of electronic pre-prints, and e-print service, in the fields of physics, mathematics, non-linear science and computer science. Full Record ASCE library Indexes the large body of technical literature and journals published by the American Society of Civil Engineers. Full Record AskART Information on over 270,000 artists; information varies in depth, but may include biographical, book, and periodical references, auction records, museums that own artwork, and images. Full Record ASME digital collection The ASME (American Society of Mechanical Engineers) Digital Collection indexes the Society's technical literature and the full text of the ASME Transaction Journals from 2000 to the present and ASME Conference Proceedings from 2008 to the present. Full Record Associated Press Access over 180 years of the photographs, sound bites, and graphics from the archives of the Associated Press. Full Record Associated Press collections online News Features & Internal Communication: The news features, dating from 1940, include news analysis, human interest stories, and entertainment and sports reporting. Bureau Collection: This collection offers access to records from the AP's Atlanta, Austin, Birmingham, Chicago, Dallas, Miami, New Orleans, Philadelphia, and Pittsburgh bureaus, dating from 1931 to 2004. European Bureaus Collection provides records from 1952 to 2000 (date spans vary by country) Washington, D.C. Bureaus Collection: Washington D.C Bureau provides access to records covering the years 1915-1930, 1952-2009. Full Record ASTM standards and Engineering digital library Provides access to active ASTM (American Society for Testing and Materials) Standards, and the ASTM Digital Library, which includes full-text access to symposia and special technical publications. Full Record Astrophysics Data System See: NASA Astrophysics Data System Full Record ATLA religion database with ATLA serials Indexes religious studies periodicals, essays in multi-author works, reviews in religion, research in ministry, and includes the Methodist Reviews Index. Full Record Atlanta daily world (1931-2010) Search the full text of the South's largest African American newspaper. Full Record Australia & New Zealand Newsstream See: Global Newsstream Full Record Avery index to architectural periodicals Indexing and abstracts for journal articles on architecture and design, archaeology, city planning, interior design, landscape architecture, and historic preservation. Indexing for 284 current journals and 3,075 retrospective journals. Coverage from the 1930s to the present with selective coverage dating back to the 1740s. Full Record Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.