Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Borrow & Request Request articles, books & more Trip Saver TripSaver is a service that sends eligible library materials via campus mail. Who is eligible to use TripSaver? TripSaver is only eligible to faculty and staff. This service is not available for students. What library materials are eligible for TripSaver? Books Micro format materials Videos Circulating items located at the KU Libraries Annex Interlibrary Loan items with at least an 11-day loan period unless it is "library use only" What library materials are not eligible for TripSaver? CDs and LPs Bound journal issues Short-term interlibrary loan items (11 days or less) How do I receive my interlibrary loans via TripSaver? You will need to log into WebRetrieve and change the pick up location through "My Account / Update Contact Info." Once you have activated TripSaver as your pick up location, all of your interlibrary loan borrowing items will be delivered this way. Not all interlibrary loan items will be eligible for TripSaver. Items that have Library Use Only restrictions, short use periods, or are in fragile condition need to be picked up at a KU Libraries Service Desk that you chose as a backup location. NOTE: If you will be away from your department for a period of time please consider deactivating TripSaver so items will not be delivered while you are away. How are library materials delivered? Items are delivered by campus mail to your department. NOTE: Campus mail will not accept returns. Any materials you received via TripSaver will need to be returned to any of the KU Libraries service desks or bookdrops. How long will it take to receive my materials through TripSaver? KU owned items should be delivered to you in three working days. Interlibrary Loan Borrowing items will be delivered to you within three days of the item's being received by KU Interlibrary Loan Borrowing Staff. Turnaround time excludes weekends and university holidays. How do I place a TripSaver request for KU owned items? Look in KU's Library Catalog to find what you want. Once you find the record of the item you want, click on the "Recalls and Requests" button at the top of the webpage. Log in using your KU username and password (as in your KU email account). Select "Retrieve from Shelf" from the drop down menu and click OK. Complete the form and select TripSaver as your pickup location. What are my options if I received a cancellation notice? If you received a cancellation notice that stated item was not found on shelf, please go to WebRetrieve and select the "Request a Loan - Not Available at KU" option. If you received a cancellation notice that stated item not available for delivery, this usually means the patron is ineligible for TripSaver. In this case, you need to submit a request through "Retrieve from Shelf" again and change the pick up location to any of the KU Service Desk locations. Who can I contact if I have any questions? Please contact 785-864-3964 or ILLLend@ku.edu if you have any questions. TripSaver operates requests from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. CST/CDT Monday through Friday. Contact Acquisitions and Resource Sharing Watson Library Room 210 acqrs@ku.edu 785-864-3960 Services Request articles, books & more Document Delivery Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Retrieve from Shelf TripSaver Home Loan Delivery GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Info for other libraries Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.