Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home About KU Libraries at a Glance Our Organization KU Libraries organizational structure Dean of Libraries As the dean, Kevin Smith advocates on behalf of the libraries, positioning the organization as an integral partner with the university’s academic and administrative units and ensuring the libraries’ continued leadership in advancing research, teaching, inclusivity and global initiatives. The dean is instrumental in developing the vision that guides the libraries in service to the university. He also facilitates external relations through outreach and development, engaging in donor relations to solidify fundraising efforts. Executive Associate Deans of Libraries Kent Miller and Mary Roach provide leadership in overall administrative and operational areas, supporting the dean in the assessment of programmatic, budgetary and personnel initiatives, with particular emphasis on the ways in which the libraries’ initiatives align with strategic goals and objectives. The executive associate deans focus on budgetary management, development programs, facilities issues, external relationships and the user experience with library programs and facilities.  In addition, they provide administrative and operational leadership to three core services units within the libraries. Cataloging & Archival Processing makes resources and services findable, accessible and usable for KU and the greater scholarly community. This unit manages metadata creation and curation, archival processing and bibliographic description and inventory.  Acquisitions & Resource Sharing acquires, borrows and lends materials in all formats and manages access to electronic resources. Payments, renewals, licensing and budgetary management associated with content activities are completed in this department. The Access Services unit reports to this division as well. Director of Public Operations Jeromy Horkman manages the Access Services team, which provides front-line customer service and public operations support in six campus libraries, while overseeing facilities management, including the remote storage site. Staff are engaged in interactions with members of the libraries’ user community, assisting library patrons in person and through book stacks management, and through training and supervision of student staff that provide direct desk support.     Executive Director of Administrative Services Mike Broadwell oversees the Administrative Services team, whose efforts encompass human resources/organizational development, faculty development processes, campus mail, and some aspects of fiscal services, library facilities and space management, as well as other administrative actions aimed at strengthening the libraries’ support within the campus community.  Executive Director of Communications & Advancement Christy McWard directs the Office of Communications & Advancement and provides leadership on organizational strategy, communications and advancement. The office establishes priorities for the dean’s activities, consults and contributes on organizational issues and efforts, and advises in aligning organizational assets and activity with priorities. Additionally, OCA leads all internal and external marketing and communications efforts, including development and implementation of all strategic communications plans. The team serves as the primary media contact for KU Libraries, and develops public relations and marketing plans, as well as associated tactics, including events. OCA manages all social media channels on behalf of KU Libraries. The office establishes and communicates development priorities, identifies and cultivates potential donors and partners with KU Endowment on major gift solicitation. This team manages the 30+ member Board of Advocates, leads corporate relations efforts, and oversees annual giving through the Friends of KU Libraries and other special campaigns.   Associate Dean of Distinctive Collections Beth Whittaker leads the faculty and staff in Distinctive Collections in their efforts to acquire, preserve and promote rare books, manuscripts, archives and specialized foreign language collections to meet the needs of the university, students, faculty and researchers around the world. Collaborating with colleagues across the libraries, the campus and the community, Distinctive Collections integrates these valuable collections into the strategic discovery, teaching, learning and research efforts of the libraries and the university. Conservation Services International Collections Kenneth Spencer Research Library Associate Dean of Research Engagement Scott Hanrath leads teams that support researchers and students throughout the research lifecycle. Collections Strategy and Development provides oversight for the budgeting, analysis, management and development of library collections in the humanities, social sciences and sciences. Digital Initiatives offers repository, digitization and publishing services; supports resource discovery and the user experience; and provides expertise to advance digital scholarship. This unit works closely with KU Information Technology’s Libraries’ Applications and Development team to manage library systems and services. Research & Learning actively engages with the campus to enhance scholarship and empower learners to navigate and question a knowledge-intensive landscape through classroom instruction, research consultations, and programming. This unit is comprised of three user-focused centers and the Reference Services team, which provides research help in library locations and online. The Office of Scholarly Communication & Copyright helps faculty and students propel scholarly work, develop educational resources, manage copyrights and learn more about the shifting system of scholarly communication in which they are stakeholders. Collections Strategy and Development Digital Initiatives Office of Scholarly Communication & Copyright Research & Learning: Center for Faculty/Staff Initiatives & Engagement Center for Graduate Initiatives & Engagement Center for Undergraduate Initiatives & Engagement Reference Services Advisor for Strategic Initiatives & Organizational Engagement Courtney Foat leads the development of strategic planning for the libraries and coordinates implementation. She collaborates in shaping internal communications strategy and integrates visual recording and facilitation practices to enrich communication and enhance team engagement. Courtney advises the dean and leadership team to propel a range of organizational initiatives and facilitates library leadership team meetings. Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.