Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Research & Teaching Research Data Management Data Management for Grants and Other Projects Help your future self. Whether or not your project requires a formal Data Management Plan, planning for your project's data needs can help you avoid unexpected pitfalls and save you time and frustration. Create data management plans using DMPTool Research Toolbox at KU (SSO required) Data Management Plans A data management plan (DMP) asks you to think through possible problems: Where is your data? Is your data backed up? Somewhere reliable and safe? Is your storage sufficiently secure for the sensitivity of your project? Is your data documented? Could you confidently recreate your results? What if key personnel leave the project? What happens to the data after the project is over? Can someone else use your data without your help? By answering these questions and occasionally revisiting the answers, you will contribute to the long-term health of your project. DMPTool Projects that receive funding from federal agencies and many other sources require that a data management plan be submitted as part of the grant application. Many funding agencies offer a template for this purpose. When applying for a grant, consider using the DMPTool to help draft your plan, share drafts with colleagues and reviewers, and export your plan to a .txt or .rtf file. The DMPTool: Is accessible using your KU Online ID Contains most U.S. agency templates Includes local KU resources inside many templates Offers sample DMPs KU Research Toolbox KU's Research Toolbox (SSO required) contains links to essential KU resources for applying for and managing grants. GIS and Data Contacts Research Data Jamene Brooks-Kieffer, Data Services Librarian Watson Library jamenebk@ku.edu 785-864-5238 Digital Humanities Watson Library Institute for Digital Research in the Humanities idrh@ku.edu More Research Data Management Organize Your Data Document Your Data Store Your Data Share Your Data Research Data Management Home Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.