Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Locations & Hours Anschutz Library Anschutz Library is named in honor of Fred and Marian Anschutz, parents of Philip Anschutz, a 1961 business alumnus and entrepreneur in telecommunications, entertainment, and media companies, sports teams and arenas, railroads and real estate. He and his wife, Nancy, provided a gift of $6.5 million for an endowed library acquisitions fund. 1301 Hoch Auditoria Dr. Lawrence, KS 66045 Information: 785-864-4928 Research help: 785-864-4930 Floor Maps Anschutz Building Hours Anschutz Service Desk Hours Full hours listing Reserve an Study Room Individual study rooms are available to support academic study and research. Reserve a Study Room Ask A Librarian We can help with your research questions — contact us by chat, phone, email, text or at a Research Help desk. Chat with a Librarian now! Study Spaces Second Floor The second floor of Anschutz has quiet study spaces. Third Floor The third floor of Anschutz boasts group study spaces, computer workstations, printing and scanning, and a café. Fourth Floor Group study spaces and the Beaham Reading Room can be found on the fourth floor of Anschutz. Located in Anschutz Library Book Return Easily return your checked-out materials back to the library. Starbucks on the Go Grab a coffee or a snack to fuel your study sessions. Government Information KU Libraries have information resources from a number of governmental, professional, and special interest organizations. IT Customer Service Center The KU IT Customer Service Center provides assistance with general technology questions or where to find additional help. Assistance with data, video, and phone services is also available. Thomas R. Smith Map Collection The Thomas R. Smith Map Collection, located on the first floor of Anschutz Library, is among the largest academic map collections in the United States. Reflection Room The use of these spaces requires tolerance of all faiths, spiritual beliefs, and practices. So that all enter these spaces with common expectations, here are guidelines to help ensure a peaceful and safe experience for all. Lactation Room The lactation room is available to all members of the campus community and guests on campus. All of the clean and private rooms offer an electrical outlet, a locking door, as well as a chair and table. Study Rooms Study rooms are available to support academic study and research. Writing Center Schedule an appointment to get individualized writing help. Makerspace Information on the new Makerspace in Anschutz Library. Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.