Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Research & Teaching Research Sprints Sprints application information Eligibility Eligibility includes all KU faculty and academic staff as defined in the Handbook for Faculty and Other Unclassified Staff. Student assistants may participate in teams if the primary researcher or instructor is a faculty member. For teaching projects, courses must be a 3-credit course offered in the 2022-2023 academic year. We will also consider applications addressing course sequences. Application checklist The project narrative should be no more than three pages (supporting documents excluded from page count), double spaced. It should address the following components: 1. Description: A clear and concise explanation of the overall proposed research project or teaching project. Some projects may include a blend of research and teaching elements. Please address the questions that make the most sense for your project. What is the history of this project? What is your research or instruction "problem" you're hoping to work on during this Sprints week? What has been your progress toward your goal, and what barriers to moving forward exist? For teaching projects, what are the goals of the assignment and/or course? Rationale: How might working with the library help solve this problem? Impact: What is the impact of this project on your research or teaching agenda? For teaching projects, what is a learning outcome you hope to integrate into your course based on engagement with information literacy? Feasibility: Consider the week of the Sprints (five days). What do you reasonably expect to accomplish during this compressed amount of time? 2. Anticipated needs: Include a brief list of anticipated resources and/or expertise needed to complete the project. This information will help shape the formation of the library team that we will create for your project (Ex: instructional design; digital humanities; content expertise; open access principles) 3. Supporting documents: For research projects include any additional information that is necessary for us to understand your project. For teaching projects, please include the syllabus and assignment prompt(s). Selection Criteria Click to expand The Sprints Committee uses the following rubric to evaluate applications: 2 = EXCELLENT 1 = SATIFACTORY 0 = WEAK SCORE FEASIBILITY SCALE The scale of the project perfectly fits into a week’s timeline. The scale of the project mostly fits into a week's timeline. The scale of the project will not fit into a week’s timeline. IMPACT SIGNIFICANCE The applicant significantly demonstrates the importance of the project to their research or teaching. The applicant mostly demonstrates the importance of the project to their research or teaching. The applicant does not demonstrate the importance of the project to their research or teaching. OUTCOMES The tangible outcomes of the project is clearly defined and highly attainable. The tangible outcomes of the project is vaguely defined and/or mostly attainable. The tangible outcomes of the project is not defined and/or not attainable. RATIONALE PARTNERSHIP The rationale for library partnership on this project is highly logical, well thought out, and makes a highly convincing case for selection. The rationale for library partnership on this project is mostly logical, thought out, and makes a mostly convincing case for selection. The rationale for library partnership on this project is lacking and does not makes a convincing case for selection. PROJECT DESCRIPTION EXPLANATION The explanation very clearly and concisely communicates the project, the impact on students or research, and is interesting and exciting to read The explanation mostly clearly and concisely communicates the project, the impact on students or research, and is interesting and exciting to read The explanation does not clearly and concisely communicate the project or the impact on students or research. OUTCOME The proposed path to completing the project is very clear, concise, and well thought out. The proposed path to completing the project is mostly clear, concise, and well thought out. The proposed path to completing the project is not clear, concise, or well thought out. Our commitment, your commitment Click to expand University of Kansas Libraries commit to: provide selected faculty and academic staff with $1,000 stipend upon completion of Sprints Week project project team members being available for the entirety of Sprints Week Collaboratively partnering with selected faculty members to complete the proposed Sprints Week project provide a project manager to organize and coordinate the project throughout Sprints Week provide relevant expertise to complete the stated outcomes of the Sprints Week project provide space and materials needs within its means to support the Sprints Week project  foster open access and open educational efforts, as appropriate integrate critical information and other literacies, as appropriate maintain an environment of collegial respect promote fundamental values of inclusion, diversity, equity, and accessibility  Successful applicants commit to: being available for the entirety of Sprints Week focus exclusively on their project during Sprints Week attend a pre-Sprints Week workshop during the spring semester participate in the assessment of the Sprints Week program participate in the Sprints Week public showcase  participate in a post-Sprints Week interview deposit in KU ScholarWorks any research or instructional materials produced or initiated during Sprints Week, as appropriate embrace open access and open educational efforts, as appropriate integrate critical information and other literacies, as appropriate maintain an environment of collegial respect embrace fundamental values of inclusion, diversity, equity, and accessibility Sprints Week Information About Apply Past Collaborations Frequently Asked Questions Contact Sprints committee The University of Kansas Libraries researchsprints@ku.edu Committee Members Jill Becker jkbecker@ku.edu Michael Peper peper@ku.edu Samantha Bishop Simmons sabsim86@ku.edu Important dates and deadlines for Sprints. Event Date Call for proposals Open through March 4 Information session 3-4 p.m. Feb. 8 (RSVP for Zoom information) Applications due March 4 Notifications sent to applicants March 21 Pre-Sprints workshop May (to be determined) Research Sprints May 16-20 Apply Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.