Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Research & Teaching Scholarly Communication & Copyright Services Scholarly communication refers to the complex system of creation, dissemination, and use of the products of scholarship, both formal and informal, and the social, legal, and economic issues and pressures at play on the system. Copyright is a legal regime that heavily informs the scholarly communication system, and which students, faculty, and staff all participate as both creators and consumers. The David Shulenburger Office of Scholarly Communication & Copyright (OSC&C) supports KU faculty, staff, and students to share their scholarly work and educational resources using complementary online tools like KU ScholarWorks, to manage the copyright associated with those works, the legal and ethical use of works of other parties, and to learn more about the shifting system of scholarly communication in which they are major stakeholders. Open Education - The Shulenburger Office of Scholarly Communication & Copyright (OSC&C) houses our Open Educational Resources (OER) program. More information below and linked. Copyright - The OSC&C offers copyright consultations and information resources. More information below and linked. Open Access - The OSC&C offers supports for and leads projects and initiatives that support open access. More information below and linked. Sharing of KU Scholarly Output - The OSC&C partners with individuals and units in and across campus to support faculty, staff and students with sharing their scholarly work. More information below and linked. We are happy to assist with these issues. Open Education KU Libraries advocates for and supports the use of open educational resources (OER) to reduce course materials costs to students and support academic freedom for instructors through consultations, presentations, a grant program, awards, support for publishing OER, and memberships in collaborative efforts such as the Open Education Network and OpenStax Institutional Partner Program. For more information, see OER at KU. Copyright The OSC&C maintains a Copyright Guide with resources and information to support KU faculty, staff, and students in their various roles as consumers, creators, and stewards of scholarly and teaching content. For group or individual consultations or presentations, contact faculty in the Shulenburger Office of Scholarly Communication & Copyright, Josh Bolick jbolick@ku.edu. Authors are the automatic owners of copyright in the works they create unless or until they agree to contractual terms that transfer copyright in their creations, such as through work for hire or via publication agreements. Publication agreements frequently transfer copyright to the publisher, consequently making the publisher the owner of the copyright in the work. The Copyright Considerations for Authors tab includes information and resources that address common intersections between copyright and authorship. Instructors' uses of copyright-protected content aren't automatically fair or exempted. The use of copyrighted content in teaching bears thoughtful consideration. The Copyright and Teaching tab includes information and resources that address common intersections between copyright and teaching. The Public Performance Rights for Screening Media tab addresses screening film media in and outside of classroom environments. Graduate student authors of theses or dissertations are affected by copyright in two ways: as a user of copyrighted material within the thesis or dissertation and as the owner of the thesis or dissertation itself. The Copyright for Dissertations and Theses tab includes information and resources for graduate authors navigating these issues. Open Access @ KU The Shulenburger Office of Scholarly Communication & Copyright faculty support faculty and student's efforts to make their research more widely available, and to have complementary ways of accessing published scholarship. In addition to consulting with faculty, departments, and students, the library faculty work with university efforts, collaborates with other units in the library (for example the Content unit, the Digital Initiatives unit, and others). Faculty Senate Open Access Policy: OSC&C staff support KU faculty participation in the KU Faculty Senate Open Access Policy passed in 2009/10. Open Access at KU provides information on open access generally, the OA policy, mediated deposit of scholarship into KU ScholarWorks, and related services, including consultations and presentations. For specific information on participation in the policy, see Getting Started. Open Access Initiatives @ KU, in partnership with the Libraries' Content Development unit. The Libraries OSC&C and Content units work together to support national and international projects that provide wider and more equitable access to scholarship created across the world. The Initiatives page highlights projects and initiatives KU Libraries supports. Some of these projects support KU faculty directly, like the KU One University Open Access Author Fund, that the OSC&C and other library staff manage to offer funds to help faculty and graduate students pay open access publishing fees. Other efforts support scholarly publishing global infrastructure through institutional memberships, like the Open Library of Humanities. Shulenburger Award for Innovation and Advocacy in Scholarly Communication: Former University of Kansas Provost David Shulenburger endowed the Libraries' with funds to support efforts that advanced open access initiatives. One initiative was the establishment of an award in his name that honors a faculty member, student, staff person or meritorious department for efforts that champion and innovate in the area of open access and scholarly communication reform. See the Shulenburger Award page for information about eligibility, timing, and nominations. Sharing of KU Scholarly Output OSC&C staff work with faculty and students to promote the public sharing of the fruits of their scholarly work. Contact lib_oscc@ku.edu or Josh Bolick, jbolick@ku.edu for more information. Working closely with Marianne Reed, mreed@ku.edu, in the Digital Initiatives unit in the Libraries, we can: Deposit articles, papers, presentations, and other scholarly works into KU ScholarWorks on behalf of KU faculty and graduate students. For more information about KU ScholarWorks see About this Repository. Provide expert advice on copyright as it pertains to open sharing of scholarly outputs per information provided above Advocate for greater openness in the academy, including open access, author's rights, local support for journal hosting, and related issues Support the implementation of open educational resources and practices per information provided above Scholarly Communication Contacts Josh Bolick Head of Scholarly Communications & Copyright jbolick@ku.edu 785-864-1828 Watson Library, Room 450 Helpful Links OER at KU KU Libraries' Copyright Guide Open Access at KU KU ScholarWorks Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.