Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Borrow & Request Request articles, books & more Document Delivery WebRetrieve Login FOR INTERLIBRARY LOAN AND DOCUMENT DELIVERY REQUESTS Document Delivery service processes article and book chapter requests from KU owned journals, books and other materials. Eligibility KU faculty, staff, authorized affiliates and students and KU Law patrons. What items are eligible for Document Delivery? Articles from journals and chapters from books owned by the KU Libraries are eligible for Document Delivery. What items are not eligible for Document Delivery? Articles located electronically through our databases. Items in poor or fragile condition. Journal articles or book chapters over 50 pages in length. How do I place a Document Delivery request? Check the KU Library Catalog or Quick Search to confirm that KU libraries owns the item containing your article. Note the call number and the location where the item is held. Go to WebRetrieve and log on. Select the "Request an Article - Available in KU libraries" option. Please submit 1 request per chapter or article. Complete the form with all the required bibliographic information. Submit request. How long will it take to receive my articles? Articles will be ready within three working days if the requested item is on the shelf. Turnaround time excludes weekends and public holidays. How do I get the articles I requested? You will receive an email notification when your articles have been delivered to WebRetrieve. To retrieve your articles, login to WebRetrieve and click on "Your PDFs" under "View". You can download or print your articles from here. Your copies will remain on WebRetrieve for 14 days after you have received your email notification. Can I request a rescan of an article? Yes, reply as soon as possible to the email notification you received for the article and be specific about the problem (see examples below). A request for a resend will be made for you. Unreadable Missing Pages Missing Text Wrong article was scanned Pages cut off Are there any copyright restrictions? The copyright law of the United States (title 17, United States Code) governs the making of photocopies or other reproductions of copyrighted material. Under certain conditions specified in the law, libraries and archives are authorized to furnish a photocopy or other reproduction. One of these specified conditions is that the photocopy or reproduction is not to be "used for any purpose other than private study, scholarship, or research." If a user makes a request for, or later uses, a photocopy or reproduction for purposes in excess of "fair use," that user may be liable for copyright infringement. This institution reserves the right to refuse to accept a copying order if, in its judgment, fulfillment of the order would involve violation of copyright law. Contact Acquisitions and Resource Sharing Watson Library Room 210 acqrs@ku.edu 785-864-3960 Services Request articles, books & more Document Delivery Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Retrieve from Shelf TripSaver Home Loan Delivery GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Info for other libraries Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.