For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism Position statement, goals, working groups, community engagement. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Gallagher Law Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us Using the Libraries / Navigation Accessibility Accessibility Progress at the Libraries Library E-Resource Accessibility Testing Library Building Accessibility Home / Using the Libraries / Accessibility Info Accessibility at the Libraries UW Libraries is committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. It is a priority for the UW Libraries to select and acquire, whenever possible, resources and technologies that are accessible to all and compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act. We are committed to providing reasonable accommodations and timely access to users with disabilities and follow UW IT Accessibility Guidelines. For assistance, or if you have suggestions or comments, please contact uwlib-a11y@uw.edu Retrieval & Borrowing Request Online & Pick Up Library users with a current account can use their UW NetID to request items from the stacks to be ready for pickup in the UW library of their choice Ask for Retrieval Help Upon request, library staff in all units will assist with the retrieval of books and with the use of electronic and other bibliographic resources. Time needed for retrieval will vary depending on staff availability. UW Article Scanning Service UW Article Scanning Service is a free service to obtain PDF scans of print journal articles owned by the UW Libraries without retrieving or scanning the item yourself. Courier Pick Up Students, staff and faculty who are registered with Disability Resources for Students (DRS) or Disability Services Office (DSO) and may have need for another person to pick up their library items should contact Library Account Services. Courier cards may be issued for this reason, and will extend through the time the accommodation is needed. Technology Software All Windows computers in Odegaard Undergraduate Library and most in Suzzallo Library have Zoomtext (screen enlargement) software installed. Other specific stations at Suzzallo, Odegaard, Health Sciences libraries, and other locations run more extensive access software suites. Scanners Scanners have accessibility features including the options to scan as searchable PDF file (OCR) and scan text to mp3 audio file. Accessibility Kits Each library location has an accessibility kit (excluding Gallagher Law Library and Friday Harbor Library) containing the following items for on-site use. Ask at the Information or Circulation desk for further details. Items available for checkout: Trackball Mouse: Trackball mice are highly useful tools for those with dexterity and fine motor skill impairments, including carpal tunnel syndrome or arthritis. This mouse allows people to use differing or fewer muscles in their hands and wrists. Pocket-Hearing Loop: This small personal amplifier is for one-on-one communications, and can be used at a service desk, when walking with a person to the stacks, or in a library classroom. Pocket loops are like a “focused headset”. Lapboard: Lapboards can be placed on the lap or across the arms of a wheelchair or mobility scooter. Lapboards effectively provide a desktop space for a mouse and keyboard (or laptop) while improving reach and comfort for individuals with whom using a standard desk is impractical. High-Contrast Large Type Keyboard: The large type and high contrast of these keyboards assist individuals with low vision by reducing eye strain. These keyboards also make typing easier for those with limited fine motor skills by eliminating multi-function keys. Note: Due to funding, the High-Contrast Large Type Keyboards are currently available only at UW Tacoma, UW Bothell/Cascadia College, Health Sciences Library, Odegaard Undergraduate Library and Suzzallo and Allen Libraries. Items available without checkout: Magnifier Bars: Magnifier bars can be used by those with low vision to enhance the size of text and reduce eye strain caused by small print. Disposable Noise-Reduction Earplugs: Disposable earplugs are useful for those with cognitive or learning disabilities. Earplugs allow for more focused concentration in spaces with additional noise. Available until supply runs out. Adaptive Equipment The Access Technology Center is in Mary Gates Hall, suite 064. It serves users with disabilities, allowing full use of campus computing resources. ATC hardware and software provides braille, alternate document formatting and magnification for blind/low-vision users, keyboard/mouse alternatives, speech-input software, and more. ATC staff provides accessibility consultations and instructs users in accessible hardware and software basics. Facilities See Library Building Accessibility Wheelchair Accessibility Accessible study carrels and electronic work stations are available throughout the Libraries. Dedicated Study Spaces Suzzallo Library has several rooms which are available for use by students who have obtained eligibility to use the room through Disability Resources for Students (DRS): DRS issues the key codes used to access these rooms. A DRS student ID card verifies eligibility to use these rooms. Library staff, DRS staff, Access Technology Lab staff, as well as other students needing to access these rooms, may request to see the DRS student ID card to verify eligibility to use the rooms. Students who do not have the DRS student ID card will be asked to vacate the room. Plan Ahead Many campus buildings do not meet all of the current ADA accessible standards and library units' hours vary, so it is wise to contact the unit directly to identify accessible routes and facilities and to confirm that assistance will be available during the time of your visit. Print Accommodations Accessible Text Request Service The UW is a member of the HathiTrust Accessible Text Request Service. Through this service, UW affiliated users who have print disabilities can request copies of in-copyright materials in the HathiTrust Digital Library Collection. Send requests to the Libraries Accessibility Coordinator. Document Conversion Service Document Conversion Service is a quick and easy way for students, faculty, and staff at the University of Washington to obtain alternative, accessible versions of inaccessible documents. Students requesting alternate materials as an accommodation should contact Disability Resources for Students. Other Campus Resources Disability Accommodations at UW Policies and resources Disability Parking and Transportation Services Parking accommodations, ADA Building Access Guide, free Dial-A-Ride Shuttle D Center UW's Disabled and D/deaf cultural center Disability Services Office Offers assistance to University employees or members of the public attending University events. Disability Resources for Students Provides UW students with academic accommodations. UW Accessible Technology Policies and resources for accessible technology at the University University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.