Skip to main content MyUW Calendar Directories Libraries UW Medicine Maps UW News Helpful Links Computing/IT ISC/Workday Husky Card UW Bothell UW Tacoma UW Facebook UW Twitter University of Washington University of Washington Students Parents Faculty & Staff Alumni Quick Links Libraries home Why give Priorities Funds Events About Advancement Give now Why give to UW Libraries? Give to UW Libraries Menu Libraries home Why give Priorities Funds Events About Advancement Give now Home Give to UW Libraries YOU CAN BE A CATALYST The University of Washington Libraries is the soul of the University. It’s where all thinkers, at all levels and across all disciplines, meet. Give Now Our Stories Support for Libraries promotes access to education and information resources through all past, present and emerging technologies. Explore some of our favorite stories of impact to learn about how UW Libraries makes a difference. Read Our Stories Get involved #IHEARTUWLibraries Video Contest Winners! Long Form (45-60 seconds) 1st Place “A Husky Point of View” by Phuong (Jolie) Tran 2nd Place “The Magic of UW Libraries” by Emily Ann Riehl 3rd Place “Last Day” by Sophia Dowling Short Form (15-30 seconds) 1st Place “Things in Suzzallo Library that just make sense” by Madeline Brown 2nd Place “Study with me” by Rachelle Lui 3rd Place “Classy” by Lakshin Kumar Rena Priest Awarded 2022 Maxine Cushing Gray Fellowship Rena Priest is a Poet and an enrolled member of the Lhaq’temish (Lummi) Nation. She currently serves as the Washington State Poet Laureate for the term of April 2021-2023. She will provide the Maxine Cushing Gray Distinguished Lecture on Tuesday, October 18, 2022. Details for the Maxine Cushing Gray Fellowship and Lecture Campaign for Friends of UW Libraries Awards Fund The UW Friends Awards strengthen innovative research and accelerates diversity and inclusion initiatives. As a public university, the University of Washington is dedicated to making research and scholarship freely and widely available — virtually and physically — to students, researchers and the world. The Libraries is committed to implementing this vision by expanding access through open practices. Give to the UW Friends of UW Libraries Award Fund Ways to give Online Support the Libraries’ greatest needs or your interests. Give now By mail or phone Make personal or donor-advised-fund checks out to “UW Foundation” and mail to: UW Foundation 4333 Brooklyn Ave NE Box 359505 Seattle, WA 98195-9505 Make IRA qualified charitable distribution checks, that reference your name, to “University of Washington” and mail to: UW Office of Planned Giving 4333 Brooklyn Ave NE Box 359515 Seattle, WA 98195-9505 On the memo line of all checks write in “For Libraries” and the name of the fund if you know it. For questions about how to insure that your gift is credited accurately, contact us at uwlibs@uw.edu To make a gift over the phone, call Monday-Friday 8:00am-4:30pm: 206-616-0438 Endowments What is your passion? Create your own endowment to build a lasting legacy and support the UW in perpetuity. Contact Sheryl Stiefel Assistant Dean of University Libraries for Advancement sstiefel@uw.edu or 206-685-1973. Non-Cash Gifts For information on how to make a non-cash gift that will support our students and faculty, contact Carolyn H. Aamot. Books and other materials enrich our collections. Learn More about Donating items Planned Giving Help UW Libraries enhance the student experience, support research and ensure the preservation of the past and present for tomorrow through a gift in your will or estate plans. Contact Amy Scott, Director for Planned Giving 206-685-3289 |amyscott@uw.edu, for information about ways to include UW Libraries in your legacy planning. Create your legacy Stock Gifts and Securities Considering donating gifts of securities to UW Libraries? Use this step-by-step PDF or contact Robert Bradshaw, 206-685-3814 | robertcb@uw.edu Stocks and Securities Friends of the Libraries Board The Friends of the Libraries Board is a group of dedicated community members with a passion for libraries. More about the Friends of the Libraries MyUW Giving See what areas you’ve supported in the past. MyUW Giving History University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms Newsletter © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA