Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Locations & Hours Music & Dance Music and Dance Library Media Facilities Our Listening Room (room 240B) features a turntable and CD player. The Joe and Joyce Hale Media Center features twelve Windows PCs for digital audio and video playback and general use, as well as eight Mac computers dedicated for media editing. The Mac computers feature Adobe suite editing programs, including Audition, Premiere Pro, and Photoshop, while all computers (Windows and Mac) feature the latest versions of Sibelius and Finale. Headphones are available for checkout at the circulation desk, as well as MIDI keyboards that may be used at the Mac workstations or with your own device in the library. The keyboards are fully compatible with Sibelius and Finale. Patrons may play back digital recordings at any workstation, or they may use the sound system in our group listening room (room 240B) to listen to digital and vinyl recordings. CDs, DVDs, and VHS tapes are held behind the service desk. To check out one of these items, find its call number in the online catalog and ask for it at the desk. Vinyl records are primarily stored in the Sound Archive collection in Anschutz or at the Library Annex; users wishing to check out vinyl records should be aware that there will be a delay while these items are shipped to the Music & Dance Library. Sound recordings circulate to faculty, staff and graduate students for four months, and to undergraduate students and resident borrowers for six weeks. All video recordings circulate for one week to all borrower types. All of the library's sound and video recordings are listed in the online catalog. Some of the recordings and videos in the Sound Archive are listed in the online catalog; more will be added as work on the sound archive progresses. However, please check with the Performing Arts Librarian about holdings that are not yet listed in the online catalog. Building Hours Watson circulation desk Full hours listing Located in Gorton Music & Dance Media Facilities The Joe and Joyce Hale Media Center features 12 Windows PCs for digital audio and video playback and general use, as well as eight Mac computers dedicated for media editing. Headphones are available for checkout at the circulation desk, as well as MIDI keyboards. Digital Recordings Patrons may play back digital recordings at any workstation, or they may use the sound system in our group listening room (240B) to play digital and vinyl recordings. CDs, DVDs, and VHS tapes are held behind the service desk. Video Recordings Video recordings are available for one-week checkouts. All of the library's sound and video recordings are listed in the online catalog. Some of the recordings and videos in the Sound Archive are listed in the online catalog; more will be added as work on the sound archive progresses. Sound Archive The University of Kansas Sound Archive is a closed research collection of more than 100,000 recordings representing the entire chronology of recorded sound. Subject Guides Dance, film, music, theater, and vocal music are the subjects covered here. Individual Study Rooms Reserve a space to focus on your coursework. Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.