Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Give Documenting Latino/a experiences for generations to come Latino/a experience in Kansas Housed within Kenneth Spencer Research Library, the Kansas Collection illustrates the experiences and stories of everyday Kansans. This important collection offers significant primary sources in support of teaching, research and learning by scholars in Kansas and around the country. Through gathering personal and family papers, as well as records of organizations, churches and business, the Kansas Collection ensures that our collective history is preserved for generations to come. Thanks to a generous lead gift from Dana and Sue Anderson, KU Libraries have the opportunity to build a historic collecting program documenting the Latino/a experience in Kansas. In order to support this essential endeavor, KU Libraries seek donors to join the Andersons in preserving these stories. The story of the Latino/a experience in Kansas and across the region is in danger of being lost. Sponsors who join this effort will help ensure KU Libraries have the funds needed to support staffing and resources to acquire, preserve, and share the stories of our past and present, as told by the individuals represented therein. Perhaps most importantly, the Latino/a experience collection will provide the opportunity to increase our collective understanding of one another by featuring the Latino/a experience in exhibitions and events throughout the community and the state. Why KU? You make possible the collection and preservation of materials that are currently at great risk of being lost. No other university in the region is collecting stories of the Latino/a experience at this scale. KU Libraries has a strong history in building collecting programs that capture the everyday experiences of diverse populations. KU Libraries have a robust and successful stewardship program, providing corporate partners and private donors the opportunity to receive significant recognition through publications, media coverage, social media and events. Why Now? Today, Latino/as comprise the largest minority population in Kansas. Librarians are witnessing an increased need for primary research materials in this area. Collecting efforts that represent diverse Kansans has been underway for decades, but hurdles exist. Language barriers require specialized staffing and gifts to support this fund will provide resources needed for a critical hire. The letters, photographs, documents, and stories of the state’s Latino/a populations are at risk of being lost forever if they are not captured and preserved. Time is of the essence. Opportunities to Support Your contribution will provide support for resources needed to complete this work and grow this collection. With adequate funding, KU Libraries will hire a Spanish-speaking field archivist with an understanding of and connection to the Latino/a community. Funds will ensure significant expansion in resources to support education, teaching, and research. Classes at KU and across the state of Kansas will see and hold first-hand accounts of Latino/as. Graduate students will have unparalleled access to primary research. Faculty members and scholars worldwide will have access to never-before-seen insight into the cultures that have shaped our country. Latino/a Experience Contact For more information on supporting the Anderson Family Archivist for Diverse Experiences fund, please contact: Laura Meyer Development Director Libraries, KU Endowment lmeyer@kuendowment.org 785-832-7372 Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.