Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Find & Access More Resources ... Thomas R. Smith Map Collection The Thomas R. Smith Map Collection, located on the first floor of Anschutz Library at the University of Kansas in Lawrence, is among the largest academic map collections in the United States. It was founded by the late Professor Thomas R. Smith of the Department of Geography. The map collection was previously located in Kenneth Spencer Research Library, more recently in Malott Hall, and moved to its present location in Anschutz Library in 1995. Maps The map collection includes over 440,000 paper maps and air photographs. The topographic and thematic maps cover all areas of the world, with particular strength in maps of Kansas and of the U.S.A. Holdings include maps of U.S. cities, states, roads, national parks and forests, and thematic maps of geology, vegetation, economy, population, etc., as well as a nearly comprehensive collection of USGS topographic maps. We have similar, although less extensive, holdings of foreign thematic maps. Our foreign topographic map holdings, strongest for the WWII era, vary in date and level of detail but are supplemented by good holdings of aeronautical and nautical charts. Most of the maps in our collection date from the early 20th century to the present, although the U.S. Serials Set of maps from U.S. Congressional reports includes both 19th-century and 20th-century maps. Apart from the U.S. Serials Set, and a few other categories, most of the maps in the T.R. Smith Map Collection can be checked out. Digital Maps and Spatial Data The KU Libraries have digital maps and data on CD-ROMs, primarily from government agencies. Much of this information is now freely available online, along with a profusion of digital data (tabular, spatial, etc.) from local, state, federal and international governments and other agencies. Please check the Library GIS guide for links to common datasets or contact GIS and Data Lab staff for assistance with digital data in various formats. Aerial Photographs The aerial photograph collection includes mainly Kansas coverage and small selected holdings for other geographical areas. The state of Kansas is covered almost comprehensively on a set of aerial photograph film negatives from the 1986 reappraisal survey (arranged by counties). This film may only be consulted in the T.R. Smith Map Collection or copied by arrangement. We also have other aerial photo coverage for some Kansas counties in a mixture of formats (paper prints and film negatives and positives). Sets of aerial photographs of Douglas County (including Lawrence) dating from 1937, 1941, 1954, 1966, 1976, and 1986 are accessible online. Atlases Most of the KU Libraries' general geographical atlases (those with Library of Congress call numbers beginning with 'G' which are in folio and oversize formats) are located in the T.R. Smith Map Collection. These include road atlases and some historical and environmental atlases. Most of these atlases circulate and can be checked out by patrons at the T.R. Map collection circulation desk. However, smaller general geographical atlases are to be found in the Anschutz 1 South stacks (adjacent to the T.R. Smith Map Collection) and should be checked out at the 3rd-floor circulation desk. Some thematic atlases about different subjects are also located in the T.R. Smith Map Collection, but most such atlases are shelved throughout Anschutz, Watson, and Spencer Libraries (according to their subject matter by Library of Congress, or other, classification). In addition, the reference areas in Watson and Spencer Library include small selections of atlases. Items held in the Spencer Research Library may be viewed by scheduling an appointment with the Reading Room. Plastic Relief Maps and Globes The T.R. Smith Map Collection has a small number of plastic relief maps, as well as a number of globes. Gazetteers and Map Reference Books The T.R. Smith Map Collection includes gazetteers and other reference works that are helpful in locating and learning about geographical places. There are also some reference books about cartography, but most such books and periodicals are shelved in the general library collections (those with Library of Congress 'G' and 'GA' call numbers are in the Anschutz 1 South stacks adjacent to the T.R. Smith Map Collection). T.R. Smith Map Collection Finding Maps, Atlases, Air Photographs, and GIS Data Borrowing Maps and Atlases Research Guides for Maps, Atlases, and Gazetteers Research Guide for GIS Large Format Scanning Contact Victoria Williams Operations Manager, T.R. Smith Map Collection vwilliam@ku.edu 785-864-8901 Using the T.R. Smith Map Collection Locating Items Find maps, atlases, aerial photographs and GIS data. Borrowing Maps and Atlases Many items in the T.R. Smith Map Collection circulate. Interlibrary Loan Can't' find what you need? Interlibrary loan might be able to borrow it from another institution. Research Guides Important resources about maps, atlases, and more! Large Format Scanning Service Bring your large documents, up to 42 inches, to the Map Collection service desk to be digitized. Ask a Librarian Library faculty and staff can help you locate items related to your research needs. Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.