For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism Position statement, goals, working groups, community engagement. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Gallagher Law Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us Home Info UW Libraries Search Articles, books + more: Advanced Search | Known Issues | Questions/Comments on UW Libraries Search | System Upgrade June 13 Site Search Search this Site for: Libraries & Hours View a list of hours for each library Study Spaces Find a place to study Borrowing & Returns Learn about using and returning physical and digital items Computers & Printing Learn what's available in the Libraries Chat 24/7 Use chat for immediate help Consultations Schedule a help session with a librarian or expert Teaching Support Multimodal resources for UW Seattle instructors Your Library Account Access your library account to stay up-to-date News & Blog UW Faculty Senate votes to support the UW Libraries' Principles in Licensing Scholarly Resources News & Blog Learn more about UW Bothell Library's Community Reads Program! News & Blog Don't miss out on the latest news and updates! MORE NEWS Start Your Research Online Online Resources Articles & Research Databases E-Journals Encyclopedias & Dictionaries E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Course Reserves Collections & Archives Mobile Search Tools Video & Streaming Video Research Help Research Guides Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Citation Styles & Tools Evaluating Information Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Open Scholarship Commons Research Data Services Upcoming Online Events June 6 Navigating Digital Scholarship Tools Got an interesting idea for a digital scholarship project? Or thinking about presenting a capstone or a thesis in a more engaging way? Come join UW Libraries for a 1-hour workshop that will help you decide which digital scholarship tools are most appropriate for your needs! June 8 Getting Started with Pressbooks Join UW Libraries for an exploration of the Pressbooks publishing tool! Attendees will learn how to get started with Pressbooks, from creating a new book to publishing and exporting offline versions of the text. VIEW THE CALENDAR Featured Resources, Collections Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Online tutorial that introduces undergraduate students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. Featured Resources, Collections UW Libraries Digital Resource: The Wall Street Journal Online Access University of Washington students, staff, and faculty can get digital access to The Wall Street Journal online content through the pilot program. Digital access includes current, and historical, issues of the newspaper. Featured Resources, Collections Black Thought and Culture Collection Black Thought and Culture is a landmark electronic collection of approximately 100,000 pages of non-fiction writings by major American black leaders—teachers, artists, politicians, religious leaders, athletes, war veterans, entertainers, and other figures—covering 250 years of history. MORE DIGITAL COLLECTIONS University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.