Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Locations & Hours Anschutz Academic Resources Anschutz Library hosts many resources and services committed to student success. Research, writing and technology help services are all available in Anschutz. Check below for more information about the services offered in the building. This welcoming environment offers unique opportunities for students to collaborate with their peers, study and research, and find support for their academic work. For facility requests, please contact Scott Cossel at scossel@ku.edu or 785-864-4599. For programming events, please contact Jill Becker jkbecker@ku.edu | 785-864-4661 and Scott Cossel scossel@ku.edu | 785-864-4599. Help and Services Technology Learning Spaces Writing support Check out Writing Center hours. Learn more about consultations with an expert from the Writing Center. Browse the Writing Center's writing guides. See FAQs about the KU Writing Center. Research and information Ask a Librarian: We're here to help! Search articles and databases. Find subject and course guides. Access citation management tools. Tutoring Learn more about small group tutoring. Become a tutor. Find more resources through the Academic Achievement and Access Center. The open computer areas on the 3rd and 4th floors of Anschutz house more than 100 workstations. These include multiple scanning workstations (with Adobe Design Premium), specialized workstations with assistive technology and accessible furniture, as well as express print and quick access stations. Technology resources Learn more about printing, scanning and copying at the Libraries. Find tech help at KU IT's Knowledge Base. Sign up for a technology workshop. Find everything you want to know about software at KU. Read our Internet Use Policy. Technology check-out Come visit us at the 3rd floor circulation desk in Anschutz to inquire about technology available for check-out. Laptops Laptops are available for use in the library building or for extended, out of building check-out. Headphones and Voice Recorders These are also available on a first-come, first-served basis. Calculators Graphing Calculators TI-83 (3 available) TI-86 (1 available) TI-89 (3 available) Scientific calculators TI-30x (1 available) Casio fx-115 (1 available) Casio fx-260 (1 available) Learn more about group and individual study areas. View a floormap of Anschutz to locate group study rooms and quiet zones. Tutoring groups: Space for formal tutoring groups is located on the 4th floor of Anschutz. These spaces are scheduled by Tutoring Services (part of the Academic Achievement and Access Center) for tutoring sessions. Reservations are posted outside each space. When not in use, these are available on a first-come, first serve basis for all Anschutz users. Learn more or sign up for a tutoring group. Help and Services Click to expand Writing support Check out Writing Center hours. Learn more about consultations with an expert from the Writing Center. Browse the Writing Center's writing guides. See FAQs about the KU Writing Center. Research and information Ask a Librarian: We're here to help! Search articles and databases. Find subject and course guides. Access citation management tools. Tutoring Learn more about small group tutoring. Become a tutor. Find more resources through the Academic Achievement and Access Center. Technology Click to expand The open computer areas on the 3rd and 4th floors of Anschutz house more than 100 workstations. These include multiple scanning workstations (with Adobe Design Premium), specialized workstations with assistive technology and accessible furniture, as well as express print and quick access stations. Technology resources Learn more about printing, scanning and copying at the Libraries. Find tech help at KU IT's Knowledge Base. Sign up for a technology workshop. Find everything you want to know about software at KU. Read our Internet Use Policy. Technology check-out Come visit us at the 3rd floor circulation desk in Anschutz to inquire about technology available for check-out. Laptops Laptops are available for use in the library building or for extended, out of building check-out. Headphones and Voice Recorders These are also available on a first-come, first-served basis. Calculators Graphing Calculators TI-83 (3 available) TI-86 (1 available) TI-89 (3 available) Scientific calculators TI-30x (1 available) Casio fx-115 (1 available) Casio fx-260 (1 available) Learning Spaces Click to expand Learn more about group and individual study areas. View a floormap of Anschutz to locate group study rooms and quiet zones. Tutoring groups: Space for formal tutoring groups is located on the 4th floor of Anschutz. These spaces are scheduled by Tutoring Services (part of the Academic Achievement and Access Center) for tutoring sessions. Reservations are posted outside each space. When not in use, these are available on a first-come, first serve basis for all Anschutz users. Learn more or sign up for a tutoring group. Anschutz Building Hours Anschutz Service Desk Hours Full hours listing Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.