Skip to main content University of Texas at Austin Home My Accounts | Give University of Texas Libraries Menu University of Texas at Austin Home My Accounts | Give The University of Texas at Austin University of Texas Libraries Search Resources Search Website Search the library website Resources Website Search the library website Find, Borrow, Request Expand Find Materials Library Catalog Articles Databases Journals Course Materials Digital Collections Digital Exhibits Map Collection Geospatial Data Borrow and Request Borrow, Renew & Return Request from another Library (Interlibrary Loan) Get a Scan of a Book Chapter or Article Suggest a Purchase Remote Delivery for Off-Campus Users Research Help & Support Expand Get Help Ask a Librarian Citing Sources Research Guides Workshops University Writing Center Public Speaking Center Publishing & Scholarly Research Scholarly Communication Services Research Data Services GIS & Geospatial Data Services Open Education Services Digital Scholarship Texas Data Repository Texas ScholarWorks Teaching & Learning Teaching & Learning Support Contact your Subject Librarian Request Library Instruction Request Course Materials Study Spaces & Technology Expand Study Rooms Reserve a Study Room Collaborative & Quiet Study Spaces Closed Studies & Carrels Computers, Printing & Technology Print, Copy & Scan Computers, Software & Wifi Access Library Spaces Foundry Makerspace Learning Commons Scholars Commons UFCU Room Explore Spaces About the Libraries Expand General Information Locations Hours Visitor Information Collecting Areas Our Organization Mission, Vision & Values Library Administration Staff Directory Job Opportunities Policies and Guidelines Lending Policies Information for Users with Disabilities See all Policies Connect with Us News Events Give to the Libraries Home About the Libraries Locations Perry-Castañeda Library Perry-Castañeda Library Quick Links Floor Plan See our Research Guides Our Staff Find your Subject Librarian Reserve a Study Room The Perry-Castañeda Library (PCL) is The University of Texas at Austin's flagship research library serving both campus communities and the greater public, and featuring resources in all subject fields with the strongest holdings in the humanities, social sciences, business and education. Weekly Hours Placeholder Featured Research Guides Copyright Crash Course Explore certain areas of copyright law individually or as a group Find Dissertations, Theses, and Reports Guide to finding dissertations, theses and reports from UT Austin. Business Research Center Find company, industry and market research resources. Finding News and News Evaluation Navigate print and electronic news related resources available to you through UT Libraries and beyond. Perry-Castañeda Library (PCL) Self-Guided Tour Take the Choose-Your-Own-Adventure UT Libraries Self-Gudied Tour See all research guides Featured Spaces Scholars Commons Includes the Data Lab, presentation practice rooms, silent study space, and the Graduate Landing Spot. Learning Commons Includes a media lab with 44 Mac computers, Learning Labs, and the University Writing Center. Collaborative Commons Collaborative, group working space on the 5th floor of the PCL. STEM Learning Spaces A collaborative learning environment where students can go and get help in the core STEM courses. Prufrock's Coffee Shop Order Peet’s Coffee beverages and quick food options on the ground floor of the Perry-Castañeda Library. Prufrock’s offers hot and cold drink options, pastries and grab and go selections. Services and FAQ Services Borrowing Print, Copy & Scan Computer, Software & Wifi Access Study Rooms Closed Studies for PhD Candidates Our Collections PCL Map Collection A collection of more than 250,000 maps covering all areas of the world. This collection consists of atlases, travel guides, gazetteers and many types of maps, including United States Geological Survey (USGS), navigational charts, International (World) maps, travel maps and items included in the U.S. Depository Library program. Learn More UT Poetry Center The UT Poetry Center — home to the Ruth Stephan Poetry Collection — is a diverse collection of poetry unique to the University of Texas Libraries. Learn More Taiwanese Resource Center for Chinese Studies The Taiwan Resource Center for Chinese Studies serves as a platform to promote and share Taiwan and China studies with the faculty, scholars and students of the university. Learn More Connect Facebook Twitter Perry-Castañeda Library Location: 101 E. 21st Street Austin, Texas 78712 Mailing Address: Name of library unit (e.g. Borrower Services) University of Texas Libraries, University of Texas at Austin 101 E. 21st St. Stop S5460 Austin, Texas 78712-1490 Phone: 512-495-4300 Fax: 512-495-4296 News at the PCL Nov. 12, 2019 — Libraries Launch Texas GeoData Portal May 28, 2019 — 2019 Graduates Make Tribute Gift to the Libraries April 26, 2019 — UT Libraries Announces 2019 Information Literacy Award Winners Oct. 29, 2018 — Haricombe In Line for ARL Leadership Position April 13, 2018 — Winners for "Images of Research" Competition Announced See all news for this location University of Texas Libraries Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Contact Us Maps & Directions Job Opportunities Material Usage Statement Service Alerts UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader Subscribe to our Newsletter Give to the Libraries © The University of Texas at Austin 2022