Skip to main content Search form Library Site Search MSU Libraries Ask a Librarian My Account Events General Info Collections and Libraries Your Library Account Hours Discover Library Spaces Address & Visiting Art in the Libraries Library Policies Employment Faculty Services Accessibility Resources Library Catalog Articles Electronic Resources Fast Facts Research Guides Course Guides Find Course Reserves Research Help Find Articles Find Books Guides and Tutorials Subject Librarians Citation Guides MSU Writing Center Using the Library Locate a Book By Call Number Get It @MSU (Interlibrary Loan, Document Delivery) Request Forms Digital Scholarship Lab Discover Library Spaces MakeCentral Service Desk Passports Get Help: Off Campus & Online Courses Computers Internet & Wireless Print, Plot, Scan Publishing Services Tech Help Off Campus Access Library Staff Telecommuting Guide Contact Ask A Librarian Your Comments Request Forms Suggest a Purchase Address & Visiting Subject Librarians About Us X Starting on Thursday, December 23, 2021, MeLCat Borrowing and Lending will be suspended while the MSU Libraries undergoes a significant software transition. MSU students, staff, and faculty can continue to utilize interlibrary loan by placing requests through the MSU Libraries Interlibrary Services department. Community patrons will not be able to use MeLCat through the MSU Libraries during this time, but they can continue to do so using their local public library. Federated SearchSearch ArticlesBooks & MediaE-Books & JournalsDatabasesGuides Today's Hours Main Library 8:00am to 10:00pm Hollander MakeCentral Service Desk 8:00am to 5:00pm Digital and Multimedia Center 9:00am to 5:00pm Art Library 9:00am to 5:00pm Reference 9:00am to 5:00pm Murray and Hong Special Collections Make an appointment Gast Business Library 8:00am to 7:00pm More Hours »» Quick Links Collections and Libraries Course Reserves Electronic Resources Guides & Tutorials Get It @MSU (Interlibrary Loan, Document Delivery) Reserve a Room Your Library Account Upcoming Events Beal Botanical Garden Tour: Native plant Strategies for Attracting Great Insects 12:10 pm - 12:50 pm Thursday, June 16 2022 Come Out! In Detroit: a celebration 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm Tuesday, June 21 2022 Zotero Workshop (Online) 1:00 pm - 2:30 pm Wednesday, June 29 2022 More events »» Spring 2022 message from the Dean Using the Library Things to Know News @ MSU Libraries Browse New Books Previous Pause Next MSU Libraries Help Students and Faculty with Distance Learning Spartans have access to critical library collections and services! Get material mailed to your home and have reference consultations with librarians 24/7 through chat or email. MSU Libraries has a wealth of resources to help with distance learning, including streaming media, reliable information about COVID-19, and more. The one-east section of the Main Library is now open for study, computer use, and printing Monday - Friday from 9:00 am - 5:00 pm. Documenting COVID-19 Experiences at Michigan State University Michigan State University Archives & Historical Collections is documenting the experiences of MSU students, staff, faculty, and other members of the campus community during the COVID-19 coronavirus pandemic. We invite you to share your stories, photos, videos, and other documentation. Please use the Google form to submit your items, and consult the UAHC website for more information on what kind of materials to submit and how to submit them. Photo: Rock at MSU on 4/9/2020. Taken by Ed Busch. Interactive virtual tours of the Main Library Interactive virtual tours of the Main Library’s first floor, Digital Scholarship Lab, and Green Room are available to view before visiting. Check out these Library spaces today! View or search all of MSU Libraries' Features Call Us: (517) 353-8700 Contact Information Site A to Z Privacy Statement Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. © Michigan State University Board of Trustees