Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Research & Teaching Research Data Management Organize Your Data Help your future self. Adopt a few key data management strategies to make your work more efficient and improve your collaborations. No one has perfect habits when it comes to managing data, but small changes in your practice can help you save time and resources. File Naming Learning Module Folder Structures Learning Module Name files and folders Name files and folders using short, meaningful names with no spaces. Intentionally naming files and folders helps you find and use your data and can help you manage different versions of files. Some software and operating systems will not work with file and folder names that do not adhere to certain requirements. KU Libraries have created a series of three brief videos about naming files and folders. GIS and Data Contacts Research Data Jamene Brooks-Kieffer, Data Services Librarian Watson Library jamenebk@ku.edu 785-864-5238 Digital Humanities Watson Library Institute for Digital Research in the Humanities idrh@ku.edu Structure folders Create folders whenever you have more than three related files. Use levels and sub-levels of folders and arrange them by project, theme, date, or format. Be consistent and use a system that makes sense for your work. Clean up occasionally by sorting through files and folders to rename, move, or delete as needed. KU Libraries have created a series of three brief videos about organizing folders, also called directories. Rescue your desktop Your computer's desktop is an easy location to save files for quick access. But too many files and folders on your desktop turn "quick access" into confusion and wasted time. Rescue your desktop from overcrowding and save yourself time and frustration by regularly deleting desktop files or saving them to permanent locations. KU Libraries have created a brief video about organizing your computer's desktop. More Research Data Management Document Your Data Store Your Data Share Your Data Data Management Plans Research Data Management Home Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.