Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home KU Libraries announce winners of 64th annual Snyder Book Collecting Contest Thu, 05/05/22 Audrey Kesler SHARE: Share by Email Share on LinkedIn Share on Facebook Share on Twitter The University of Libraries announced the winners of the 64th annual Snyder Book Collecting Contest at the awards presentation on April 21. The contest, established by libraries donor Elizabeth Snyder in 1957, is designed to recognize students' passion for collecting books. “It was great to be back in person and hear from the finalists about their collections,” said Beth Whittaker, associate dean of distinctive collections. “This is always one of the best events of the year, and this year did not disappoint.” Christian Due, an undergraduate student from Gardner, Kansas, received first place in the undergraduate division for his collection, “Rosello: An Exploration of Identity and Heritage.” Due’s collection highlighted the history and culture of the village of Rosello and the surrounding region of Abruzzo, Italy, the land of his ancestors. Robert Ward from Lawrence won second place in the undergraduate division for his collection, “A Herculean Labor of Love,” including numerous editions of Greco-Roman literature in the original language and works of scholarship and criticism on them from the nineteenth, twentieth and twenty-first centuries. An undergraduate division honorable mention was awarded to Joan Doweny of Shawnee, Kansas, for her collection, “Discworld: A Fantastical Social Commentary,” containing a selection of the “Discworld” novels by Sir Terry Pratchett. Eleni Leventopoulos of Chicago received first place in the graduate division for her collection, “The Little Grey Cells of Hercule Poirot.” This collection of 46 books represents the near complete works of Agatha Christie’s Belgian detective, Hercule Poirot. All books are used, bringing their own history and value as objects in addition to stories. “It’s impossible to pick a favorite collection,” said Kristin Sederstrom, acquisitions and resource sharing library manager. “They were all fantastic and each finalist highlighted a very personal experience of learning about themselves and developing their knowledge and interests through collecting books.” The event featured keynote speaker, Danny Caine, who presented on the pleasures of being surrounded by book collections. “If I wake up every day in a house filled with books, many of which I’ve never read, I can more easily be inspired to keep learning,” Caine said. “And so the fact that I can never read my entire collection is not a problem but a feature. The minute I’ve read every book in my house is the minute I become educated, not learned. It would mark the end of something I hope never ends. The process of collecting mirrors the process of learning – it is never finished, and that is a blessing.” Each winner received a cash prize and a gift card from contest co-sponsor Jayhawk Ink. Cash awards are made possible by an endowment fund created by Mrs. Snyder. First place winners in each division are eligible to compete in the National Collegiate Book Collecting Contest, which awards a top prize of $2,500. Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.