Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Locations & Hours Watson Library Built in 1924, Watson Library is the oldest and largest of KU’s libraries and is named after university librarian Carrie Watson. The library houses collections in the social sciences, humanities, education, journalism, and social welfare. The majority of KU's film and DVD collection can also be found in Watson. Watson offers both group and quiet study areas, as well as computer workstations, bookeye scanners, and printers. Laptops, calculators, headphones, and voice recorders can be checked out at the service desk. 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Information: 785-864-8983 Research Help: 785-864-3347 Floor Maps Watson Building Hours Watson Service Desk Hours Full hours listing Reserve a Study Room Study rooms are available to support academic study and research. Reserve a study room Ask A Librarian We can help with your research questions — contact us by chat, phone, email, text or at a Research Help desk. Chat with a librarian now! Study Spaces Third Floor The third floor of Watson boasts group study spaces, computer workstations, café, study carrels, and Studio K. Fourth Floor Quiet individual and group study spaces and the graduate study lounge are located on the fourth floor. Fifth Floor The fifth floor is home to quiet study with breathtaking views of the gothic windows, International Collections, a reflection room, and the libraries administrative office. Located in Watson Library Ask A Librarian Expert library faculty and staff can help you find the best resources for your research topic, discuss strategies and develop skills for searching article databases and the library catalog, identify and locate primary source materials, and search the web efficiently for credible information. Book Return Easily return your checked-out materials back to the library. Graduate Student Study The Graduate Student Study lounge offers graduate students of all disciplines a quiet place to write, research, and study. GIS & Data Lab The GIS & Data Lab facilitates the KU community’s use of digital data, such as geospatial, quantitative, tabular, and textual data. Café Grab a coffee or a snack to fuel your study sessions. Haricombe Gallery Each semester, the Haricombe Gallery hosts exhibitions with interdisciplinary work by the KU community. Honors Student Study Lounge A space for Honors Students to focus on their work. IDRH The Institute for Digital Research in the Humanities (IDRH) is an intellectual hub for digital humanities inquiry and practice that reaches across and beyond the KU campus. We welcome everyone, from the curious to the novice to the expert. Interlibrary Loan Request articles, books, and more! International Collections KU librarians and staff have partnered with KU language departments and area studies programs to assemble diverse and unique materials from all over the world in support of research and learning at KU. Lactation Room The lactation room is available to all members of the campus community. All of the clean and private rooms offer an electrical outlet, a locking door, as well as a chair and table. Reflection Room The use of these spaces requires tolerance of all faiths, spiritual beliefs, and practices. So that all enter these spaces with common expectations, here are guidelines to help ensure a peaceful and safe experience for all. Reserve a Group Study Room Have a class project and need a place to bring your group together? Watson Library has reservable study rooms. Studio K Studio K is a quick-record studio, designed so that any user can walk in and start recording a speech, demonstration or presentation within moments of arrival. Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.