Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Give How will my gift be used? The following efforts require private funding to support technology upgrades, building renovations, furniture, equipment, faculty and staff. Giving opportunities include named spaces (multimedia conference rooms, offices, study spaces, etc.) and faculty positions. Make your gift today Student support KU Libraries are proud to provide innovative spaces, helpful resources, and essential services for every student. Support Jayhawk Scholars Textbook affordability As devoted supporters of student success, KU Libraries remain committed to ensuring the existence of affordable and accessible resources for all Jayhawks. Support Open Educational Resources Open Access KU Libraries are proud to be a worldwide leader in Open Access efforts, creating accessibility to published works and dramatically increasing the visibility and reach of research conducted at KU. Support Open Access at KU Collections KU Libraries are home to rich collections that help to advance the research initiative at KU and are accessible to students, faculty, and researchers across the state of Kansas and around the globe. Support our collections Faculty support Librarians provide expert instruction and support that empowers communities of learners to connect with and navigate through a knowledge-intensive landscape on the Hill. Support KU faculty Digital scholarship KU Libraries offer vital expertise and key tools for engaging with the growing landscape of digital scholarship. Support research & scholarship Thank you for supporting KU Libraries! Make your gift today Make your gift today Student support KU Libraries work to adapt to the changing academic landscape and give students the tools they need to succeed. By blending technology, comfort and flexibility, study spaces in all library locations are built to help students excel at KU. In classrooms across campus, libraries faculty and staff provide more than 600 instruction sessions, reaching upwards of 10,000 students. Textbook affordability As drivers of student success, KU Libraries have long been committed to ensuring the existence of affordable and accessible materials for all Jayhawks. The Textbook Heroes initiative recognizes the extraordinary work of KU faculty, staff, instructors, and students who advocate for textbook affordability in classrooms at the university. Through the contributions of generous donors, we have provided grant funding more than 20 projects that support adoption, adaptation or creation of open educational resources (OER) at KU, impacting thousands of students. Open Access In 2009, KU became the first public university in the United States to adopt a faculty-initiated open access policy for the faculty research published in peer-reviewed journals. KU continues to be a worldwide leader in open access today. The university’s policy, which is implemented by KU Libraries, asserts the rights of KU faculty to provide broad, free access to their journal publications to colleagues around the world, dramatically increasing visibility and reach for research conducted at KU. This program requires private funding to support software, technology and implementation. Giving opportunities include software for streamlining and automating the submission process, additional technology tools for open access support, and events like Open Access Week, which highlight KU as an international leader in the open access movement. Collections KU Libraries invests in high-quality materials in many formats that serve research, teaching and learning needs at KU. The libraries are home to rich collections — both traditional and online — of more than five million volumes and one million subscriptions to journals, magazines and newspapers. Private gifts of any amount support building, processing, digitizing, and preserving collections in the social sciences, humanities, and science and technology areas. Faculty support Librarians are a critical link between scholars and information. Gifts supporting professional development mean KU Libraries can continue to build upon an outstanding portfolio of expertise to deliver top-notch support to the people and priorities of our university. Librarians at KU are exploring innovative new support models, such as "embedded librarianship," which enable them to work more closely with students and other library users. Digital scholarship KU Libraries provide faculty and students with expertise and tools for creating and using digital scholarship to enhance research, teaching and learning at KU. Our consultative librarians focus on organizing and preserving the results of today’s research for tomorrow’s scholars. In spaces both physical and virtual, faculty find expert consultants, academic opportunities and digital tools. Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.