Skip to main content One Stop MyU Lock Authentication required Give University Libraries My Library Account Libraries search PubMed WorldCat Website only Search Spaces Collections Services About My Library Account Libraries home Primary tasks Main locations Walter Library East Bank Today: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. more Walter hours Wilson Library West Bank Today: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. more Wilson hours Health Sciences Library East Bank Today: 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. U Card required more HSL hours Magrath Library St. Paul Today: 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. more Magrath hours Andersen Library West Bank Today: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. more Andersen hours All locations and spaces In the Libraries Masks are optional, and available at library service desks. Computers, printing, and scanning Use computers, print from your device or the cloud, or make digital copies. Study spaces Open and reservable spaces for individual and group study. Reserve a group study space Popular services Interlibrary Loan Request materials from non U of M Libraries. Course reserves Instructor-selected materials available to students through the Libraries free-of-charge. Tutoring Peer help with course work and research. Chat bubbles with question mark Meet with a librarian Consultations for help with research and projects. Workshops In-person and online workshops on a variety of topics. Popular databases Academic Search Premier Google Scholar JSTOR APA PsycInfo PubMed Web of Science Browse all databases Research guides by subject Get started with these databases. Back to top Collections Connect with materials in our general collections or access some of our unique materials. From the book The aerial age: a thousand miles by airship over the Atlantic Ocean, 1911, in the Special Collections and Rare Books. General collections Search for books, articles, journals, streaming media, maps, music, and more, or get started with research guides. Subject libraries and collections Explore our topical and regional collections of distinction. Course materials Access course reserves, find open textbooks, and get free required course readings. Digital collections Search or browse our digital archives, exhibits, and special projects. Archives and Special Collections Primary sources and unique materials collected and preserved in our archives. Leisure reading Our collection extends to leisure reading, an important part of well-being and growing understanding. Back to top Services Connect with Libraries experts to support your studies, teaching, and research. Student support Services to help with classes, assignments, and research papers using research consultants, tutors, and help with media. Instruction support Services help you find quality course materials that fit your class, integrate information literacy and research inquiry skills into your course and offer expertise on learning the research process and using our resources and services. Research support services Researcher support services provides U of M scholars and academics quick access to information and tools to plan, conduct, and disseminate their work. Back to top News and events News Mura sparkles at Pankake Poetry reading As David Mura stood behind the podium in Elmer L. Andersen Library, he remembered that it was not far from there that he had his first public reading, as a student poet. That 1976 reading took place in an art gallery — and, it was noted, Andersen Library had not yet been built on the West Bank. This afternoon, Mura was standing inside Andersen Library delivering the 13th annual Pankake Poetry reading. Exhibit Living Masquerades : Blue Lady and the Art of Revelry Local Minneapolis artist, Jeanie Ockuly, a.k.a. Blue Lady, invites us to parade in costumes made of sequins, jewels, paint, or mud to mock and/or revel in all of life that is beautiful and atrocious in order to let go, celebrate and heal. See the exhibit that runs through May 28, 2022 at Wilson Library. Events and workshops ONLINE: Introduction to Zotero June 20, 1:30 p.m. to 2:30 p.m. Online event More events Back to top The Libraries welcomes learners and scholars from all cultures and backgrounds. Our approach to inclusion, diversity, equity, and accessibility Back to top University of Minnesota Libraries Library hours and locations About the Libraries We are a member of the Federal Depository Program Our approach to inclusion, diversity, equity, and accessibility Accessibility services Privacy statement All policies Jobs at the Libraries Staff directory Facebook A square shape with Facebook's logo Twitter Square with the Twitter logo inside Pinterest A square with Pinterest logo inside Youtube Rectangle with Youtube logo inside Instagram Square with the Instagram logo Your support benefits our students, faculty, Minnesotans, and scholars around the world. Give to the Libraries Join the Friends of the Libraries Contact us 612-624-3321 Call the Wilson Library front desk to get help by phone during open hours, or leave a voicemail for next-day follow-up. Email us Use the web form to email us. We respond within 1 to 2 business days. Mail us Libraries Central Administration Office 499 Wilson Library 309 19th Avenue South Minneapolis, MN 55455 Live chat 24/7 Real people, no bots. All day and night, with help from librarians everywhere. © 2021 Regents of the University of Minnesota. All rights reserved. The University of Minnesota is an equal opportunity educator and employer. Acceptable Use of IT Resources opens an external site 24/7 chat Staff login Lock Authentication required