For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism Position statement, goals, working groups, community engagement. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Gallagher Law Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us About the Libraries / Navigation Organization at a Glance Advancement Organizational Chart Administrative Services Organizational Chart Collections & Content Organizational Chart Distinctive and Special Collections Organizational Charts Health Sciences Library and NNLM Organizational Chart Research and Learning Services Organizational Chart UW Bothell/Cascadia College Library Organizational Chart UW Tacoma Library Organizational Chart UW Press Organizational Chart Home / About the Libraries / Organization at a Glance Info Organization at a Glance People Subject Librarians Libraries Staff Directory Distinguished Librarian Award UW Staff Directory Office of the Dean of University Libraries Simon Neame, Dean of University Libraries Portfolios and Organizational Charts Administrative Services Vacant, Assistant Dean Organizational Chart Libraries Administrative Services provides functional support for Libraries units and staff. Assessment Communications Facilities Financial Services Human Resources Advancement Sheryl Stiefel, Assistant Dean Organizational Chart Libraries Advancement supports Libraries initiatives through private and foundation support, including donor events, outreach and stewardship. Collections & Content Denise Pan, Associate Dean Organizational Chart Collections and Content staff identify, acquire, catalog and prepare resources for patron use. Acquisitions and Rapid Cataloging Services Cataloging and Metadata Services Collection Analysis and Strategy Gifts Program Preservation Services Distinctive Collections Paul Constantine, Associate Dean Organizational Chart Distinctive Collections encompasses Special Collections as well as the East Asia Library and International Studies. Tateuchi East Asia Library International Studies Near East Slavic and Eastern Europe Southeast Asia Special Collections Book Arts History of Medicine Labor Archives of Washington Pacific Northwest Collection (Architectural Drawings, Photographs and Moving Images, Graphics) University Archives Washington State Jewish Archives Health Sciences Library Tania Bardyn, Associate Dean Organizational Chart The Health Sciences Library (HSL) provides on-site and remote access to information resources and a shared physical/virtual learning commons to conduct and promote research and to support clinical care. TRAIL Researcher Services and Virtual Reality Lab Learning Commons Computer Lab HEALWA National Network of Libraries of Medicine (NNLM) Region 5 Research and Learning Services Lauren Pressley, Associate Dean Organizational Chart Research and Learning Services provides collections, space, as well as reference and circulation services to support research and publishing by the academic community. Access Services Circulation Services / Branch Operations Services Interlibrary Loan and Document Delivery Services Library Account Services Information Technology Services and Digital Strategies Learning Services Curriculum Support Instructional Design and Outreach Services Odegaard Undergraduate Library Student Success Research Services Branch Libraries: Art, Built Environments, Drama, Engineering, Foster Business, Friday Harbor, Mathematics Research, Music Government Publications, Maps, Microforms and Newspapers Online Reference Services Research Commons Subject Librarian Liaison Teams Scholarly Communication and Publishing Digital Scholarship Research Data Services UW Bothell & Cascadia Library Vacant, Associate Dean & Director Organizational Chart The UW Bothell / Cascadia Campus Library serves the University of Washington and Cascadia College combined campus. UW Tacoma Library Annie Downey, Associate Dean & Director Organizational Chart The UW Tacoma Library serves the University of Washington Tacoma Campus. University Press Nicole Mitchell, Director Organizational Chart The University of Washington Press finds, develops, selects, and publishes scholarship of high quality and enduring value. University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.