Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Locations & Hours Anschutz Anschutz Study Spaces Group study spaces Group study rooms are walled-in study spaces with doors, located in the Learning Studio at Anschutz Library on the 2nd, 3rd and 4th floors. The guidelines below are intended to make study rooms available to all guests in the fairest manner possible. Group study rooms may be reserved in advance online or at the 3rd floor circulation desk for use by KU students, staff and faculty. General Policies Priority usage of these rooms goes to groups of 3 or more (larger rooms require 5 or more) with advance reservations (available to current KU students, staff and faculty for academic activities). Rooms are open and available to all patrons (individual or groups) when not in use by those with advance reservations. Reservations for groups of three or more may be made up to 7 days in advance for 2 hours maximum per reservation. There is a 10-minute grace period for reservations. If the group (3 or more people) is not present within the grace period, the reservation is invalid, and another group may use the room. Rooms cannot be reserved or held by placing personal belongings in them. Without a reservation, you may be asked to vacate at any time by a group who has booked the room (even if the group just made the reservation prior to arriving). Study rooms are meant to support academic study, research, and positive group collaborations. Inappropriate conduct such as sleeping, excessive noise, fighting, or writing objectionable, vulgar, or obscene language on the whiteboards, tables, or walls is not permitted. Each individual assumes responsibility for the conduct of all group members and the condition of the room. For safety reasons, appliances such as coffee makers, hot plates etc. are NOT allowed in these spaces. Food and beverages are permitted in the rooms adhering to the Food and Drink Policy. Large furniture, such as tables and couches, are not to be placed inside study rooms. Do not leave personal materials and library books unattended in the group study rooms while in class, for extended periods of time, or overnight. Unattended items will be removed. Library books that are not checked out will be returned to the stacks. Quiet study areas Quiet study areas are available on the north areas of floors one and two of Anschutz Library. The David Beaham reading room is a quiet study room located on the east portion of Anschutz fourth floor. These spaces are set aside for reading, solo computer work and other quiet tasks. Carrels and tables are available, with power outlets and wireless access for laptops. You can check out a laptop at the Level 3 service desk, or bring your own. For more details about quiet study, group study, and our cell phone use policy, see our noise policy. Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.