Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Select to follow link OER Grants Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Research & Teaching Open Educational Resources College textbooks and course materials costs have increased over 800% in the last 3 decades, far outpacing inflation, housing, and medical costs, to become the most inflated consumer product. High cost texts create significant barriers to learning and student success. Open Educational Resources (OER) are "teaching, learning, and research resources that reside in the public domain or have been released under an intellectual property license that permits their free use and re-purposing by others" (Hewlett Foundation). OER and related practices are an approach to overcoming cost and reuse barriers to the benefit of students and instructors. For more general information about OER, see the Guide to Open Educational Resources. Related efforts based in the Libraries include: Open Education Week KU Libraries are excited to honor Open Education Week, March 7-11, 2022 with a series of short videos that outline OER basics, introduce Creative Commons licenses, and share tips for finding OERs for courses. We also announce our newest Textbook Heroes. OER Grant Initiative The goal of the KU OER Grant Initiative is to support the adoption, adaptation, and creation of open educational resources (OER) by KU instructors and encourage their use at KU to positively impact students. Instructors may apply for up to $5000 to implement OER in their courses. Individuals, teams, and departments/programs may submit proposals to: Adopt an existing open textbook (or other educational resource); $1,000 Adapt existing open educational resources to your instructional needs; up to $2,500 Create an open educational resource where none currently exist; up to $5,000 For more information see the application procedures. Open Education Network In 2015 KU joined the Open Textbook Network, which in 2020 rebranded as the Open Education Network, an alliance of higher education institutions committed to improving access, affordability, and academic success through the use of open textbooks. The OEN manages the Open Textbook Library, a collection of over 850 open textbooks, many of which have been reviewed by disciplinary faculty at member institutions. As of 2021, the OEN remains a vital partner in expanding OER efforts at KU. OpenStax Institutional Partner Program In 2017 KU was admitted, with the support of the Provost, Senior Vice Provost for Academic Affairs, and KU Libraries, to the OpenStax Institutional Partner Program. OpenStax is a nonprofit publisher and advocacy organization based at Rice University whose mission is to improve student access to education. As institutional partners, KU collaborated with OpenStax and peers to develop and implement a strategic plan to increase the use of OER at KU through a variety of advocacy and support mechanisms. Textbook Heroes In 2019 KU Libraries launched Textbook Heroes to recognize facuty, staff, students, and allies at KU who have taken extraordinary initiative to increase access to and affordability of required course materials by implementing and advocating for OER and other low and no cost course materials. A new cohort of Textbook Heroes will be announced fall and spring semesters. PressbooksEDU We're excited to expand our support for OER creation and publishing through Pressbooks, a Wordpress-based tool for simple open textbook publishing. Excellent examples from KU include Speak Up, Call In: Public Speaking as Advocacy, Problem Solving in Teams and Groups, and Be Credible: Information Literacy for Journalism, Public Relations, Advertising, and Marketing Students. More information is available at KU Libraries Open Textbooks, or by contacting the Josh Bolick, Scholarly Communication Librarian, at jbolick@ku.edu. Questions about OER and related programs and support at KU should be directed to oer@ku.edu. Scholarly Communication Contacts Josh Bolick Head of Scholarly Communications & Copyright jbolick@ku.edu 785-864-1828 Watson Library, Room 450 Helpful Links OER Guide OER Grants Textbook Heroes Pressbooks at KU Open Textbook Library Copyright Guide KU ScholarWorks Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.