For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism Position statement, goals, working groups, community engagement. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Gallagher Law Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us Interlibrary Loan Navigation Interlibrary Loan Contact Information Home / Interlibrary Loan Info Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services User Services UW Current students, faculty, staff, retirees. Your ILL Account Request scans View, download or print requested scans Check the status of your request Services for UW students, faculty, and staff Summit and Interlibrary Loan Borrowing Interlibrary Loan - Article Scan UW Article Scanning Service Course Instruction Scanning Service Other UW affiliates Services for Cascadia users are fee-based. UW Law School users should place ILL requests through the Gallagher Law Library. More information Fees & services Non-UW Businesses, individuals, UW alumni, UW donors. Your ILL Account Request physical items or scans View, download or print requested scans Check the status of your request Services for non-UW clients Loan of materials owned by the UW Libraries Scan from material not owned by the UW Libraries Scan from print material owned by the UW Libraries Scan from map or aerial photo owned by the UW Libraries Rush service for scan from material owned by the UW Libraries Rush service for loan of material owned by the UW Libraries Fee-based services Provide scans of material owned by the UW or other libraries Mail books owned by the UW to your home or another address How long does it take? Most scans are available for download within 3 business days or less Most books are mailed within 1-3 days Is rush service available? UW ILL accepts rush requests. In order to process rush requests in a timely manner we are unable to process rush requests that require a date stamp. Requests that require a date stamp are requestable through our regular service. How do I submit a request? UW Interlibrary Loan and Document Services requests must be submitted online through our website at https://www.lib.washington.edu/ill We do not accept requests by email, phone, or fax. More information Fees & services Pay your invoice Other Libraries Other Libraries, archives, museums, and government agencies. Request materials from the University of Washington Libraries using Resource sharing networks: OCLC Worldshare (WAU) DOCLINE (WAUWAS) RAPID (RAPID:WAU) Online form Services for Libraries Loan of materials owned by the UW Libraries PDF of digital material owned by the UW Libraries Scan from print material owned by the UW Libraries More information Fees & services Request renewal Pay your invoice Let us scan that for you! We can scan and deliver journal articles from the UW Libraries print collection and from other libraries directly to you at no charge. This service is available for current UW students, faculty and staff only. What is Summit? If you need an item that cannot be supplied by UW Libraries it may be available through Summit. Summit is a service used to request items from other libraries in the Orbis Cascade Alliance Consortium. Summit libraries lend print items and some audio/visual materials to each other. MORE > Copyright The copyright law of the United States (Title 17. United States Code) governs the making of photocopies or other reproductions of copyrighted material. Under certain conditions specified in the law, libraries and archives are authorized to furnish a photocopy or other reproduction. One of these specified conditions is that the photocopy/reproduction is not to be "USED FOR ANY PURPOSES OTHER THAN PRIVATE STUDY, SCHOLARSHIP, or RESEARCH." If a user makes a request for, or later uses, a photocopy or reproduction for purposes IN EXCESS of fair use, that user may be liable for copyright infringement. This institution reserves the right to refuse to accept a copying order if, in its judgment, fulfillment of the order would involve violation of copyright law. University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.