Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Borrow & Request Course Reserves Course Reserve items are available at the Reserve Desk identified in the online catalog. KU instructors place materials on Course Reserve in order to better guarantee their availability for students. Materials owned by the libraries or personal copies provided by the instructors will be available for checkout from one of the Reserve Desks in the KU Libraries. This service is often referred to as On-Site Reserves and will typically include complete books, journals, media items, and other relevant material to support classroom instruction. Course Reserve materials have shortened loan periods in order to ensure availability for all borrowers. What is not included in Course Reserve? Any item which requires copyright compliance cannot be placed on Course Reserve. This means you will not find photocopies of articles, chapters, or other course readings through On-Site Reserves. Many of these items are available through the KU Libraries’ Databases. Please consult with your instructor if you have any questions, or contact us. Help Finding Course Reserves Click to expand Reserve desk locations and searching help Course Reserve items are available at the Reserve Desk identified in the online catalog. What information do I need to find a Course Reserve item? The most helpful information to locate items on reserve include: Instructor’s name Course name and number Department name How do I search the Library Catalog for Course Reserve items? Go to online catalog, and select Course Reserve tab. Scroll through the drop-down menu and highlight the appropriate instructor, department, or course for which you want to search for items. Be certain to make note of the call number and the Reserve Desk location. Take this information with you to the designated Reserve Desk. Policies Click to expand Loan periods On-site reserve loan periods range from two hours to two weeks. Some items are available only use in the library. Be sure to ask when a Course Reserve item is due when you check it out. Where should I return Course Reserve materials? All Course Reserve materials must be returned to the service desk from which they were checked out by the time due in order to avoid overdue fines. There is no grace period for the return of Course Reserve items. See Circulation Policies and Procedures for additional information. Course Reserves Find Reserves Contact Us Reserves Service Locations and Liaisons For Instructors Electronic Reserves Options Linking to E-Resources from Blackboard Submit On-Site Course Reserves Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.