Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Find & Access Articles & Databases Accessing KU Libraries Online Resources Electronic resources available from the libraries' web site are licensed by the University of Kansas Libraries for non-commercial use by KU faculty, staff, students, and on-site visitors at KU campus locations, for educational or research purposes only. This page describes who can access restricted content, how to access this content under normal circumstances, and how to troubleshoot common issues. Who can access KU Libraries Online Resources? Off-campus access to electronic resources is available to all currently enrolled students, faculty, staff and authorized affiliates of the University of Kansas as described in KU's Policy on Acceptable Use of Electronic Information Resources. For general access policies, see KU Libraries' policy on Off-Campus Access to Licensed Electronic Resources. Students: If you are a currently enrolled student and do not have off-campus access, but think you may be eligible (this can sometimes be an issue between semesters), please confirm your current enrollment status by checking Enroll & Pay. Faculty and Staff: If you are a currently employed faculty or staff member and do not have access, please confirm your current employment status with your department or with KU Human Resources KU Medical Center: In general students and researchers at KUMC should access KU online resources via the A.R. Dykes Library at KUMC. For more information, see Access to Electronic Resources – Options for KUMC Students, Faculty, and Staff. Affiliates: If you believe you are eligible as an affiliate of university, please review the university’s official policy on affiliates. Human Resources has a comprehensive list of affiliations detailing eligibility for campus privileges. KU Human Resources provides an affiliate status request form which departments and affiliated organizations (not individuals) may use to request affiliate status. Visitors to the KU Libraries: Anyone not currently enrolled at or employed by the University of Kansas may use most library databases and e-journals at the Community Access Workstations available onsite in many KU Libraries locations. Alumni may wish to consult our guide to resources for Alumni. For more information, see KU Libraries' policies regarding access by patron status. Privacy Electronic resources available from the libraries' web site are licensed by the University of Kansas Libraries for non-commercial use by KU faculty, staff, students, and on-site visitors at KU campus locations, for educational or research purposes only. Beyond the Libraries' negotiated access to content, online providers may also have privacy policies that cover optional individual user tools and features that require personally identifiable information to register an account. These policies may change over time without notice. KU users have a personal responsibility to review and determine if the policy is acceptable. KU Libraries are not responsible for personal data that users share with providers. Accessing and Linking to KU Libraries Online Resources The simplest way to access library resources is to start from the Libraries website, locating the resource using Articles and Databases, e-Journals, the Catalog, or other starting points. Starting here will provide access to resources from on- or off-campus. Access to licensed KU Libraries materials is provided to KU users through the IP address of your computer or device: When you are on a campus network, your IP address will provide access without having to log in. From off-campus or from the residence halls, scholarship halls, and on-campus apartments, the KU Libraries' proxy server will provide access to resources via a login. You will be prompted to enter KU Online ID and password. Starting from the Libraries website, via Articles and Databases, e-Journals, the Catalog, etc. will ensure that you can access resources from on- or -off campus. Why Can't I Access Libraries Resources using the VPN (KU Anywhere)? For some KU resources, IT offers a Virtual Private Network (VPN) called KU Anywhere for off-campus access. In most cases only provides access to resources hosted on the KU network. Because most of the libraries' databases, journals, and online resources are provided by publishers external to KU, the VPN will not provide off-campus access to these resources. Links using the Libraries proxy server prefix should be created instead. Google Scholar To more seamlessly access KU Libraries subscription resources from Google Scholar, you will need to let Google know you are affiliated with KU. When you do, Google Scholar will show "Get at KU" links in your search results that provide access to KU subscription resources. From an on-campus device, this should happen automatically. From off campus, there are two methods: 1. Add the University of Kansas Libraries in the "Library links" section of your Google Scholar Settings To manage the "Library links" settings for in Google Scholar Settings, visit this URL: https://scholar.google.com/scholar_setprefs?instq=University%20of%20Kansas%20Libraries Select "University of Kansas Libraries Get at KU" and save your settings. 2. Add the University of Kansas Libraries code to your Google Scholar URL Add KU's institutional code to Google Scholar by starting your search using this link: https://scholar.google.com/?inst=3189769355200351540 Creating and Sharing Links to Libraries Resources When off campus, some forms links to articles or databases that you were able to access while on campus may not work as expected. The links must include our proxy server to be accessible from off-campus. If the link does not contain the KU Libraries proxy server address (www2.lib.ku.edu) somewhere in the URL, it probably won't work from off campus. To save links or DOIs for future use, or to include links in Blackboard course sites or email, make sure the links include the proxy server address. For example, this URL will provide access from on campus, but will not work from off campus: https://www.jstor.org/action/showBasicSearch By adding https://www2.lib.ku.edu/login?URL= to the beginning of the URL, the same link will work from off campus: https://www2.lib.ku.edu/login?URL=https://www.jstor.org/action/showBasicSearch Note that copied and pasted proxied links may include the proxy server at the end of the URL instead. For example, this URL includes the proxy server and may not work from off-campus: https://www.jstor.org.www2.lib.ku.edu To ensure stable URLs, place the proxy link before the resource link or use the Proxy Server Bookmarklet. Proxy Server Bookmarklet If you wish to add the proxy server URL to a link you encounter in your research, you can use the libraries' Proxy Server Bookmarklet. By saving the bookmarklet to your bookmarks bar, you can click the bookmarklet link to re-load a KU Libraries resource so that it contains the proxy server prefix. Installing the Proxy Server Bookmarklet Browser Instructions Safari and Chrome Click on and drag the following link to your Bookmarks bar: Reload with KU Libraries Proxy Server Firefox Right click on the following link: Reload with KU Libraries Proxy Server Select Bookmark This Link. Alternatively, click and drag the link to your Bookmarks toolbar Internet Explorer Right click on the following link: Reload with KU Libraries Proxy Server Select Add to Favorites. you may be prompted with a security alart. It is safe to click Yes to continue. Use the Bookmarklet If you have a database URL in your browser that doesn’t contain www2.lib.ku.edu, you add it by clicking on the bookmarklet in your browser's bookmarks. This will reload your current page with the proxy server URL included. Common Bookmarklet Issues The bookmarklet will attempt to proxy any website, whether KU licenses that content or not. If you receive a "Remote Access Error" when using the bookmarklet, the most common reasons are: The content is freely available, and is not proxied for off-campus use. Don't use the bookmarklet for this content. The content is not licensed by KU. It could be that we have the journal you're trying to access, but from a different vendor. If you have questions or still cannot get access, please Ask a Librarian. Proxied Links in Citation Management Software In some cases, citation management software like EndNote and Zotero allows users to search libraries catalogs and databases from the software itself, and import proxied links directly. For example, Zotero attempts to identify and remember KU's proxy when users access libraries online materials, allowing quicker proxied access to these resources in the future. Instructions for enabling and configuring these settings are available on Zotero's website. Stable URLs and Permalinks Some journal or database links will not work unless you use the stable version of the URL from the database itself. Different resources will often point out these "permanent links" in their individual interfaces. To locate links suitable for sharing look for terms like: Stable URL Permalink Durable URL Persistent URL Static URL DOI Once you've located a resource's permanent link, check to see if it includes www2.lib.ku.edu If so, you're good to go. If not, paste it into your browser bar after the proxy prefix https://www2.lib.ku.edu/login?URL=, or try the proxy server bookmarklet. More Information Acceptable Use of Electronic Information Resources Policy Off-campus Access to Licensed Electronic Resources Policy Libraries Policies for KU Students, Faculty, Staff, and Affiliates Alumni Resources Kansas Resident Resources Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.