For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism Position statement, goals, working groups, community engagement. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Gallagher Law Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us About the Libraries / Navigation Library Jobs HR Links Classified and Professional Staff Positions Librarian Positions Student Positions Graduate GSA Student Positions Handshake: Jobs for UW Students Fellowships Internships Student employee scholarships Related Libraries Mission, Vision, and Values Libraries Diversity Statement Home / About the Libraries / Library Jobs Info Library Jobs Join Our Team We aspire to become a truly inclusive and equitable organization. We actively support the University in sustaining diversity, creating inclusive experiences for the UW community, and confronting institutional bias and structural racism. Student Positions Applications are taken only for open positions. Open positions for the Seattle and Tacoma campuses are listed on this page (see the Bothell Library employment page for Bothell campus jobs). To apply, read the job details carefully and follow the application instructions. Most positions require a UW Google (G Suite) account to apply; see "More info" for details. More info ›› Graduate GSA Student Positions When available, jobs are posted at the central UW employment website, with brief descriptions and links listed here. These positions are Academic Student Employee positions covered by UW/UAW contract. There are currently no items in this folder. Handshake: Jobs for UW Students See additional campus listings on the UW Handshake site (follow links to "Campus Hourly/Work Study") The link address is: https://uw.joinhandshake.com/login Fellowships Joseph and Jill McKinstry Libraries Endowed Fellowship UW Libraries offers a unique fellowship to MLIS students at the iSchool that combines a scholarship with a paid work experience in the University Libraries system. The successful fellow receives a scholarship and an assignment in a University Libraries unit(s) based on the recipient's interests. Internships Internships allow selected candidates to further their education in a hands on setting. When offered, internships may be open nationally, or restricted to select educational programs. UW iSchool students should also see the iSchool Directed Field Work page: http://ischool.uw.edu/current/mlis/fieldwork-internships There are currently no items in this folder. Open Librarian Positions E-resources Metadata Librarian Notice of vacancy May 4, 2022. Closing date for completed applications submitted through Interfolio is 8:59 PDT/11:59 p.m. EDT on June 3, 2022. Rank of Assistant or Senior Assistant Librarian. Classified and Professional Staff Positions Library Account Services Supervisor Under the direction of the Head, Central Circulation Services, the position manages the Library Account Services unit responsible for providing empathetic customer service to library users in addition to being responsible for banking and accounting functions relating to payments, collections and receivables of approximately $350,000. The position also manages the integrated library system module responsible for user services. Closes June 14, 2022. Temporary Senior Computer Specialist - Developer This position will assist with system implementation and application development. Expected project position duration is 9-12 months. Open until filled. UW Press Acquistions Fellow This is a temporary full time entry level position at the UW Press. The fellow will be immersed in the acquisitions department of a leading scholarly press, working closely with senior acquisitions editors, authors, and projects through the entire acquisitions process. Open until filled. Advancement Public Information Specialist This role will design, develop and implement comprehensive communications and events plans for Libraries Advancement. Design, create and produce communications materials that steward and support donor development. Open until filled. University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.