For the most current information on the status of Libraries operations, services and policies visit UW Libraries Operations Updates. Online resources and support are available 24/7 Skip to primary content Skip to sidebar content University of Washington University Libraries My UW Calendar Maps Directories Toggle navigation Home Start Your Research Articles & Research Databases Literature on your research topic and direct access to articles online, when available at UW. E-Journals Alphabetical list of electronic journal titles held at UW. Encyclopedias & Dictionaries Resources for looking up quick facts and background information. E-Newspapers, Media, Maps & More Recommendations for finding news, audio/video, images, government publications, data sets and other types. Evaluating Information Learn how to choose the best and most reliable information that meets your research needs. Citation Styles & Tools Quick MLA, APA, and Chicago style guides for bibliographies; tools for storing and organizing sources. Course Reserves Library materials reserved for your classes. Collections & Archives Unique online and physical collections on specific subjects, in distinct formats, and in special archives. Mobile Search Tools Mobile-optimized research databases and library-related mobile apps. Research Guides Librarian recommended resources & research tips tailored to your topic. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial Self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills and UW Libraries resources and services. moreon research Use the Libraries Your Library Account Log in to renew borrowed materials, check on items you have requested, and pay fines. Study & Meeting Spaces Study, conference, event, and meeting spaces, and how to reserve them. Computers & Printing Computers, printers, and scanners in the Libraries. Accessibility We are committed to providing equal access to library collections, services, and facilities for all library users. Interlibrary Loan & Scanning Services Get PDFs of print articles delivered via email and borrow items not held at UW. Borrowing & Access What you can check out from the Libraries, how long, renewals, and returns. more on using the Libraries Help & Support FAQ Short, simple how-to and demos of frequently asked questions about using the Libraries and information resources. Graduate Funding Info Service Assistance with locating funding for research, tuition, travel, and other graduate school-related expenses. Off-Campus Access & Technical Support Using library resources from off-campus and other technical tips. Open Scholarship Commons One-stop shop for knowledge creation and dissemination services. Resources for Writing Campus writing help and links to online resources. Scholarly Publishing & Open Access Info and tools for scholarly publishing and open-access publishing alternatives. Subject Librarians Talk to a librarian with expertise in your subject area for help with your research. Teaching Support Collaborative library instructional services that can improve the research and information skills of your students. more help About Libraries & Hours Contact info, map location, and hours for all library branches. News Events Exhibits What's going on at the Libraries: announcements, upcoming events, and current exhibits. Organization At-a-Glance Staff directory and info about the Office of the Dean and other library departments. Support the Libraries Give to the Libraries! Join the Friends of the Libraries. Our Blog News, views and impact stories from the UW Libraries. Jobs Student, staff, and librarian job opportunities at the Libraries. PoliciesLibraries policies governing use of library resources, space, and services. Strategic Plan Current Libraries strategic goals and initiatives. Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Anti-Racism Position statement, goals, working groups, community engagement. more about the Libraries Libraries Art Library Built Environments Library Drama Library Engineering Library Foster Business Library Friday Harbor Library Gallagher Law Library Government Publications, Maps, Microforms & Newspapers Health Sciences Library Mathematics Research Library Music Library Odegaard Undergraduate Library Research Commons Special Collections Suzzallo and Allen Libraries Tateuchi East Asia Library UW Bothell/Cascadia Library UW Tacoma Library Ask Us! Get help 24/7 with this real-time chat service. Email Get answers to less-urgent questions and comments via email. Consultations Make an appointment and get specialized help from a librarian. more ways to contact us Teaching Support Navigation Teaching Support Subject Librarians Workshop Request Libraries FAQ Faculty Guidance FAQ 2022 Spring 2022 Teaching Support Home / Teaching Support Info SPRING 2022: The UW Seattle Libraries is offering a mix of online and in-person instruction services. Read more. UW Libraries Teaching & Learning The Libraries supports instructors and students on the UW Seattle campus by offering robust services, spaces, and resources for teaching and learning success. Course materials Handouts & tutorials Class instruction & workshops Research consultations & assignment design Collaborative partnerships We strive to support multiple modes of learning, including both online and in-person courses. See below to learn more about how the Libraries can support your teaching & learning at UW. The content on this page is directed toward UW-Seattle instructors. See also: Teaching Remotely at UW | Teaching support at: UW Bothell and Cascadia College Library & UW Tacoma Library. Course Materials The Libraries' extensive online collections are available to instructors seeking free and licensed course materials to supplement their students' learning (books, book chapters, articles, streaming media, etc.). Search | e-Books | e-Journals | e-Newspapers | streaming videos | to support course instruction. Find freely available Open Educational Resources (OER) and Open Textbooks for use in courses. Browse more options for providing access to course materials for students. Ready-to-go Teaching Resources Need a handout for your students to learn about research? Download or link to one of our ready-to-go online learning objects, or contact us for help with a custom resource or assignment idea. Class and Research Guides are online portals to research in a specific subject or course. Citation Management (Research Guide). Get quick help on citing sources and tools. Evaluating Information (Research Guide). Choose the best and most reliable information that meets research needs. Expository Writing (Research Guide). Supports instructors for ENGL 131, ENGL 121, ENGL 182, and other courses in the Expository Writing Program. Undergraduate Researcher Tutorial (Canvas). A self-paced online tutorial that introduces students to research skills across fields and disciplines. UW Libraries YouTube Channel (Video). Find short tutorials and library promotional videos. Request a Session: Class Instruction, Workshops & Consultations Librarians are available for orientations, information sessions, research consultations, and workshops by request. Our staff also provide support with assignment design, custom class guides, Canvas modules, and other online-compatible learning objects. Request a workshop for your class to build your students' research skills. Browse Event & Exhibits to find specialty office hours & open workshop opportunities. Consult with a librarian about Canvas materials, class guides, and assignment design. Who We Are: Principles & Partnerships The Libraries seeks to provide UW instructors with services and content that follow the principles of learner-centered design, which empower students to be leaders and co-creators of their own learning experiences. Libraries staff also collaborate actively with campus partners to instill lifelong learning skills that students can apply beyond the University to the greater good of our knowledge-driven and globally oriented society. Learning Partners across all three campuses to promote student learning and instill lifelong learning skills. Collaboration examples of successful partnerships between UW librarians and instructors or programs. University Active Learning Classrooms (ALCs), instruction spaces ranging from basic to innovative technology. Health Science ALC, the largest active learning classroom space on campus. University of Washington Libraries Box 352900 Seattle, WA 98195-2900 USA phone: 206-543-0242 - Contact Us UW Home / Privacy / Terms Text on this page created by UW Libraries is licensed under a CC BY-NC 4.0 license. Images and video are not included. See details.