Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home What to Expect in the Libraries Updated January 11, 2022 Our Spaces All KU Libraries locations across campus are open to the public. Please see Locations and Hours for detailed schedule of open hours. We welcome you safely. We are resolved to protecting the broader Jayhawk community while we strive to advance our mission – transforming lives by inspiring the discovery and creation of knowledge for the university and our global community. Library spaces are configured to support healthy practices: If you are exhibiting COVID-19 symptoms or believe that you have been exposed to someone who has tested positive for COVID-19, you should stay home and contact your healthcare provider. Our spacious, flexible learning and study spaces support the opportunity for distancing. In alignment with campus protocol, our spaces are cleaned regularly. Supplies are available so that users can clean spaces before each use. The university urges all Jayhawks to get vaccinated as soon as possible. For more information, visit the Protect KU site. Additional details about our spaces, resources, and support for advancing teaching and research needs are outlined below. You can access our computer workstations. Computers are available for walk-in use. Many popular campus lab software applications are also available remotely via Virtual Lab. You can reserve study rooms. Our study rooms may be reserved online. Some equipment is available for check-out. Laptops are available for one-week check-out. Calculators, markers, and voice recorders are also available. Stacks are open and materials are accessible. Library users can access and browse physical collections housed in most library stacks. KU students, faculty, and staff may also request specific items to be pulled for pick-up through our Retrieve From Shelf process. You can visit Spencer Research Library’s Reading Room to use materials (advanced appointments are optional). You are welcome to enjoy beverages and light snacks in our spaces. You may bring your own beverages and snacks into library spaces where allowed. Our Resources You can access library collection materials through a number of channels. Digital resources are readily available. You can access items from our collections in a variety of ways: You can request library materials through our Retrieve From Shelf process, then pick them up at a preferred library service desk. The Document Delivery service may be used to request digital copies of journal articles and individual book chapters. We are accepting Interlibrary Loan requests. Please suggest a purchase to inquire about additional resources. We provide access to a variety of streaming video services and accept requests to digitize portions of DVDs/videos for classroom use. For Spencer Research Librarymaterials, please contact ksrlref@ku.edu for research support and reproduction requests. Course reserves are available. Physical course reserves are offered. Your Teaching & Research We are here to support your instructional needs. Our expert library faculty and staff partner with instructors to integrate research skills and information literacy outcomes into courses and assignments. In-person library instruction will follow university protocols that prioritize the health and safety of students, instructors, and library faculty and staff. Request a consultation with a library instructor to discuss your needs and potential approaches. We provide Video Tutorials and Subject and Course Guides to support research and assignments for courses. Our Copyright and Online Instruction Guide provides support for questions about copyright and online teaching. Please contact copyright@ku.edu for more on copyright, fair use, and online instruction. Research support is at your fingertips. KU Libraries' Ask a Librarian service offers research help in person, via chat, and via email. KU librarians are available for research consultations. Please contact us to arrange a consultation with our experts in digital, print, and archival collections; scholarly communication; citation management; digital scholarship; and more. Community & Wellness Please see our Community Resources Guide for links to additional library, cultural, and wellness resources. KU's Mental Health Resource Guide outlines campus and community resources that support behavioral health and wellness. - If you have feedback, please share it with us. Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.