Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Select to follow link Request Library Instruction Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Research & Teaching Instruction and Curricular Integration KU Libraries empower learners to connect with, navigate through, and question an ever-expanding information landscape to become critical thinkers and engaged citizens. Request Library Instruction KU Libraries are committed to the development and integration of information literacy into the curriculum. We collaborate with faculty and instructors from all disciplines to design learning opportunities that develop critical thinking, awareness of information sources, and an understanding of the research process. We work with faculty to help students understand that: Authority is constructed and contextual Information creation is a process Information has scholarly, social, cultural, political, and ethical value Research is a process of exploration and inquiry Scholarship is a conversation Contact us to request a consultation with a library instructor. Contact: Research and Learning Division Watson 4th floor lib_rldivision@ku.edu 785-864-6572 Additional Support Course Reserves GIS and Mapping Digital Humanities International Collections Scholarly Communications and Copyright Spencer Research Library Resources Citation Management: Endnote and Zotero Open Educational Resources (OERs) Subject and Course Guides Video Tutorials Research Skills and Assignment Design Librarians are experts at scaffolding the research process through assignments and learning opportunities that improve student learning and success. We will work with you to integrate information literacy instruction at your students’ point of need. Subject Expertise Some library instruction requires subject expertise and a grasp of discipline-specific research processes. Librarians with subject specialties are available to provide library instruction for your courses and consult with you on scaffolding the research process for your students. Course Collaboration Examples Film & Media Studies 316/716 Latin American & Caribbean Studies 315/702: Cinema of the Southern Cone Click to expand Betsaida Reyes and Jill Becker worked with Tamara Falicov to design an assignment that asks students to describe their topic and its connection to the course content, complete some preliminary searching for sources, and reflect on the search process and credibility of the information they found. Students bring the completed assignment with them to the library instruction session and the librarian uses the responses to guide the discussion and introduce students to subject-specific search strategies University 120: Introduction to Engaged Learning Click to expand Natalie Mahan, Samantha Bishop Simmons, and Jill Becker worked with Rachel Davis to design an assignment that teaches students search skills through an online tutorial followed by a hands-on library instruction session to support a future course assignment requiring an interview with a KU faculty member. In the spring 2020 semester when the course was quickly moved online, the unit was repackaged into an interactive course guide, accomplishing the same learning outcome. Open Pedagogy/OERs Click to expand Open pedagogy encourages students to create and share new knowledge to benefit their peers and greater communities. Open Educational Resources (OER) range from open textbooks to a single lesson module. Librarians can help you identify, create, and use OER in your classes, and design and implement open pedagogy assignments to foster deep learning and inclusivity in the classroom. Journalism 302: Infomania Click to expand Karna Younger and Carmen Orth-Alfie collaborated with Peter Bobkowski to create an OER and an open pedagogy assignment to scaffold information literacy in an undergraduate research course. The OER, "Be Credible: Information Literacy for Journalism, Public Relations, Advertising and Marketing Students," iteratively localizes information literacy to journalism students and their future careers. Students educate their peers by creating video tutorials included in the text, which cultivates a more relevant and inclusive learning environment for students. Spanish 424: Advanced Spanish Composition and Grammar Click to expand Karna Younger and Betsaida Reyes partnered with Araceli Masterson to integrate open pedagogy into her Spanish writing course. Here, students researched local Chican@ and Latinx history to create children’s books to be shared during story times at local shelters and public libraries. Biology 527: Primate Evolution and the Fossil Record Click to expand Paul Thomas worked with Chris Beard, Matthew Jones, and Spencer Mattingly to develop a Wikipedia-based project that taught students about the scholarly peer-review process. The course used an assignment that incorporated research, peer review, and writing so that students learned both about peer-review and creating and sharing knowledge. Environmental Studies 460: Field Ecology Click to expand Rhonda Houser worked with Bob Hagen to build a hands-on Geographic Information Systems (GIS) exercise that is refined each fall semester. The tutorial focused on analysis of forest ecology and land use at the Fitch Natural Reservation. Hagen created an assignment based on the tutorial and unit objectives. The exercise is unique as students collect the data onsite (forest plots, tree age and size), then convert their data to a GIS format in the lab, and explore their data in a geographic context with other layers such as soil and historic land use. The faculty member has built a database of past data collected by students, providing a longer range of data for site managers and students to use. Business 305: Business Writing Click to expand Carmen Orth-Alfie, working with Laura Barrett, selected discipline specific sources and research tools appropriate for the learning goals of a “business proposal” assignment for the course. A course guide was designed to facilitate the research process by introducing students to a variety of discipline specific information sources, licensed databases, and open government data. Each semester, the course guide usage data and assessment of student work inform edits to the assignment. Business 120: Emerging Topics in Business Click to expand Carmen Orth-Alfie, L.Marie Avila and Natalie Mahan collaborated with Julie Hartness to redesign an assignment that met the learning outcomes for a first-year experience business course. The scaffolded case study assignment tasked students with synthesizing information found in a variety of sources, including trade publications and scholarly journal articles, to propose options to expand the case study business and outline a marketing plan. Orth-Alfie curated a collection of sources for the assignment and designed a course guide that introduced student to these sources arranged within a business framework. History 301: The Historian's Craft Click to expand Sara Morris provides instruction for History 301 each year that helps students learn how to search for primary sources. With increasing digitization, discoverability is reliant on keywords and it is imperative for researchers to understand the pitfalls and nuances of depending on a database to retrieve sources. Sara approaches her instruction using a lesson plan that demonstrates that searching for primary sources is not an intuitive activity. Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.