Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Locations & Hours Spaces and Technology Accessibility The University of Kansas Libraries is committed to providing equitable access to information to all faculty, staff, students, and members of the KU community. In compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), and in collaboration with the appropriate University resource centers, library staff will make good faith efforts to accommodate reasonable requests for assistance in obtaining, accessing, and making use of library resources, materials, and services. Accessibility Workstations Click to expand The University of Kansas Libraries provides accessibility workstations with software installed to provide assistance to users with disabilities in the Anschutz, Art & Architecture, Music & Dance, Spahr, and Watson libraries on the Lawrence campus. Please refer to our page on adaptive technology for a complete listing of software applications currently available. Access to adaptive technology workstations requires an active KU Online ID. Electronic Materials Assistance Click to expand Workstation Accessibility All library locations have one or more workstations that are wheelchair-accessible and adaptive technology is available on designated workstations in the Watson and Anschutz libraries on the Lawrence campus. Please refer to our page on adaptive technology for a complete listing of software applications currently available. Access to adaptive technology workstations requires an active KU Online ID. Library website The University of Kansas Libraries are committed to providing access to information through our Web site. While many of our Web pages and resources have been reviewed for established guidelines for accessibility, there are many legacy materials that are not yet fully compliant with those guidelines. If you have difficulty accessing one or more pages on our Web site, please email libwebhelp@ku.edu. Electronic journals, books, and databases the KU Libraries subscribes to a vast number of electronic resources provided through a large number of commercial vendors and publishers and not all resources were designed for maximum accessibility. Users requiring assistance accessing these materials should contact the Kent Miller, KU Libraries Accessibility Coordinator at kmiller@ku.edu HathiTrust HathiTrust is a digital repository of collections of some of the major research libraries in the United States. Some of the content is in the public domain and available to all. Through a designated proxy, eligible KU patrons can receive special access to in-copyright materials. Consult the HathiTrust site for more details. Facilities Access Click to expand The University of Kansas Libraries maintains facilities in a number of buildings on the Lawrence campus. A map of campus libraries is available, as is a guide to access to campus libraries. A guide for visitors to the Spencer Research Library is also available. Print Materials Assistance Click to expand Retrieving Library Materials Library staff are available in each unit to retrieve materials for users who need assistance. Users should ask at the service desk of the library housing the needed material. Library staff will make every effort to immediately retrieve the needed material. However, if there are a great number of items to be retrieved, advance notice may be required. In addition, if the library is busy and/or there is only one staff member available at the service desk, library staff may ask the user to come back later to pick up the material. Users who require assistance retrieving materials from the library stacks are encouraged to prepare a list of materials needed and to use the online catalog to determine ahead of time that desired materials are currently available for circulation. Please note that the library is most able to respond quickly to such requests during weekdays (8 am - 5 pm) rather than during evening or weekend hours. The library does not provide retrieval services at 24-hour facilities during hours when service desks are not staffed by library personnel. KU-affiliated users may also take advantage of the electronic Retrieve from Shelf and WebRetrieve services to have print materials delivered to any library service desk for pick up, or, if appropriate, delivered in electronic form. The amount and type of material that may be delivered in electronic form via WebRetrieve may be limited by the requirements of copyright compliance and staff availability. Please visit any library service desk for more information on using Retrieve from Shelf and WebRetrieve. Adaptive Technology Print materials may be magnified or scanned using adaptive technology available on designated workstations in the Watson and Anschutz libraries on the Lawrence campus. Please refer to our page on adaptive technology for a complete listing of software applications currently available. Access to adaptive technology workstations requires an active KU Online ID. Rare and Fragile Materials Many print materials cannot withstand use on adaptive technology workstations and there are restrictions on the circulation of rare materials. Please contact Kent Miller at kmiller@ku.edu to discuss options for accessing rare and fragile materials available only in print. Readers Print materials that cannot be made accessible using adaptive technology may require the aid of a reader. Students requiring a reader should contact the Student Access Center, Room 22, Strong Hall. Reference Assistance and Information Services Click to expand General Assistance General assistance is available in person, over the phone, and via electronic mail during designated service hours. Links to service hours, phone numbers, and Web-based services are available at Ask a Librarian. Extended Assistance and Research Consultation Extended services and research consultations are available during weekdays in Anschutz and Watson libraries and by appointment. Because extended assistance may require users to work with a subject specialist, users are encouraged to make an appointment ahead of time via our appointment request form. Extended Assistance using Adaptive Technology Users requiring both extended reference assistance and assistance with adaptive technology are encouraged to contact Jeromy Horkman at jhorkman@ku.edu. Contact Kent Miller Associate Dean and Accessibility Coordinator kmiller@ku.edu 785-864-8989 Related Links Adaptive Technology Available at KU Libraries Access to KU Libraries Facilities Students requiring assistance obtaining services may also contact: Student Access Center 785-864-4064 Faculty and staff requiring assistance obtaining services may also contact: Institutional Opportunity & Access Office 785-864-6414 Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.