Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Libraries myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Find & Access Select to follow link Quick Search: Articles, Catalog, more Libraries Catalog Articles & Databases Select to follow link Databases A to Z Databases by Subject Accessing Online Resources Database Trials E-Journals Subject & Course Guides More Resources ... Select to follow link Streaming Video Dissertations & Theses Spencer Research Library International Collections Government Information Map Collection KU Scholarworks KU Digital Collections Borrow & Request Select to follow link Borrow, Renew, Return Request articles, books & more Select to follow link Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Document Delivery Retrieve from Shelf Trip Saver GWLA Reciprocal Circulation Program Info for other libraries and institutions Course Reserves Select to follow link Electronic Course Reserves Suggest a Purchase Video Digitization Locations & Hours Select to follow link Anschutz Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Collections Floor Maps Study Spaces Art & Architecture Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Circulation Policies Floor Maps Edwards Music & Dance Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Media Facilities Sound Archive Spahr Engineering Select to follow link Hours Academic Resources Watson Select to follow link Hours Collections Floor Maps Studio K Study Spaces Spencer Research Library Spaces and Technology Select to follow link Scanning, Printing, and Copying Reserve Study Rooms Accessibility Library Tours KU Libraries Instruction Room Use Policy Hosting an information table at KU Libraries Annex Research & Teaching Select to follow link Request a consultation with a librarian Instruction & Curricular Integration Open Educational Resources Scholarly Communication Digital Publishing GIS and Mapping Services Systematic Reviews Research Data Management Select to follow link Document Grants Organize Share Store Research Sprints Select to follow link Research Sprints Commitment Sprints application information Past Sprints Frequently asked questions Events & Exhibits Select to follow link Events Exhibitions About Select to follow link KU Libraries at a Glance Select to follow link Our Organization Mission & Vision Strategic Plan Pressroom Awards People & Departments Policies Select to follow link Questions News Job Opportunities Give Select to follow link Areas of Support Board of Advocates Documenting Diverse Experiences Ask a Librarian myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Libraries Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Home Locations & Hours Music & Dance University of Kansas Sound Archive About the Archive The University of Kansas Sound Archive is a closed research collection of more than 100,000 recordings representing the entire chronology of recorded sound. It is administratively part of the KU Music and Dance Library. There are several large collections housed in the archive: the James Seaver Opera Archive, the Richard F. Wright Jazz Archive, the AudioHouse Collection, the Paul Bierley Band Collection, and various smaller collections. These collections include albums of Broadway/London musicals and film soundtracks, as well as the original master reels from the 1972 International Carnival of Experimental Sound (ICES). Bibliographic records are being added to the KU Libraries’ online catalog. Until the process of entering each individual title is completed, some items will be missing from the catalog. If you cannot find a specific title in the catalog, please consult the staff of the Music and Dance Library, who will check the un-cataloged items. James Seaver Opera Archive The James Seaver Opera Archive is a collection of opera and vocal music that range from cylinders to 78s to LPs to CD and video recordings. There are many rare early Berliner and Edison records. Also in this collection are tapes of some of Dr. Seaver’s popular radio program, "Opera is My Hobby," as broadcast by KANU. Richard F. Wright Jazz Archive The Richard F. Wright Jazz Archive at the University of Kansas is one of the most complete of its kind in the Midwest. Its holdings cover thoroughly all major jazz periods from the 1920s and 1930s on 78-rpm recordings (New Orleans, Chicago, New York, Kansas City, the swing era) as well as the many genres following World War II (bop, cool, funky/hard bop, third stream, avant-garde, fusion and soul jazz). The collection contains many rare and out-of-print items on labels that are in great demand by jazz collectors and dealers around the world. There are extensive holdings of Bethlehem, BYG, Coral, Debut, Dial, ESP-Disk, Jubilee, Mode, Roost, Tampa, Time and United Artists. There are also many nearly complete catalogs of such major jazz companies as Argo, Atlantic, Blue Note, Columbia, Contemporary, Fantasy, Imipulse, Pacific Jazz, Prestige, RCA Victor, Riverside, and Roulette. Twelve-inch V-disks and 16” (33-rpm) discs from the 1930s and early 1940s are in the jazz archive. Many of these items, particularly albums on the Intro, Good Time Jazz and Storyville labels, are extremely rare and have been out of print for many years. Included in the many items of interest to historians and collections is the personal collection of orchestra leader and jazz promoter, Ernest Loring “Red” Nichols, which includes master tapes and transcription discs of performances from the 1930s, 1940s, and 1950s. The jazz archive is a collection of more than 25,000 12” 33-rpm recordings, 900 10” 33-rpm recordings, 5,000 78-rpm recordings, and 650 reel-to-reel tapes. The archive’s largest contributors have been KU Associate Professor, radio host and jazz authority, Richard F. “Dick” Wright, as well as Kansas City collectors Howard D. Rittmaster, Rosalind Gregory and Ernest Johnson Sr., Dallas enthusiasts Lloyd V. and Julia R. Mathis, and KU professor and jazz critic Chuck Berg. Many others have contributed substantial numbers of rare and valuable recordings. Clippings, announcements, promotional materials and programs are among the many items that enhance the collection. Almost every well-known artist, as well as many unknown and forgotten players, is represented in the archive with 30 to 40 albums each by such outstanding figures as Charlie Parker, Duke Ellington, Louis Armstrong, Count Basie and Oscar Peterson. Future research may reveal that the complete recording output of many jazz artists will be found here. Famous jazz figures associated with Kansas City (Charlies Parker, Mary Lou Williams, and Coleman Hawkins) are well represented in the collection. Ten-inch and 12” Charlie Parker releases on the Dial label and two by Dick and Kuz Harp for the 90th Floor label are examples of extremely rare recordings that can be found in the archive. For more information regarding the Sound Archive, please contact the KU Music and Dance Library. Access to material in the archive is by appointment only. Music Library Hours Full hours listing Located in Gorton Music & Dance Media Facilities The Joe and Joyce Hale Media Center features 12 Windows PCs for digital audio and video playback and general use, as well as eight Mac computers dedicated for media editing. Headphones are available for checkout at the circulation desk, as well as MIDI keyboards. Digital Recordings Patrons may play back digital recordings at any workstation, or they may use the sound system in our group listening room (240B) to play digital and vinyl recordings. CDs, DVDs, and VHS tapes are held behind the service desk. Video Recordings Video recordings are available for one-week checkouts. All of the library's sound and video recordings are listed in the online catalog. Some of the recordings and videos in the Sound Archive are listed in the online catalog; more will be added as work on the sound archive progresses. Sound Archive The University of Kansas Sound Archive is a closed research collection of more than 100,000 recordings representing the entire chronology of recorded sound. Subject Guides Dance, film, music, theater, and vocal music are the subjects covered here. Individual Study Rooms Reserve a space to focus on your coursework. Watson Library 1425 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 libwebhelp@ku.edu 785-864-8983 facebook instagram twitter youtube Libraries website feedback KU Libraries Find & Access Borrow & Request Locations & Hours Research & Teaching Ask a Librarian Events & Exhibits About Give Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.