Skip to Main Content Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research ServicesWe're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities and social sciences collections. Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Accessibility Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean's Council for Equiy and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major or course who wants to help! Teaching Support Working together with faculty, we can help design and implement effective research experiences for students. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Dartmouth Library Ask Us! Warning: Your browser has javascript disabled. Without javascript some functions will not work, including question submission via the form. Ask Us! Toggle menu visibility 241 Answers Ask Another Question Search Browse: All Topics 6Alumni Services 28Baker-Berry Library 1Biomedical Libraries 14Borrow From Other Libraries 17Business 7Collections 17Course Reserves 3Dartmouth History 1Dartmouth Library Depository 2Economics 5Engineering 3Film & Video 1Geography 1GIS 7Jones Media Center 1Kresge Physical Sciences Library 12Library Hours 4Maps 13Music 12Preservation 1Psychological & Brain Sciences 3Rauner Special Collections Library 5Records Management 1Reserves 19Scholarly Communication, Copyright, and Publishing 23Search and Find 17Services 1Sherman Art Library 4Study Space 32Technical Support 4Visitors 11Writing Your Paper Contact Us Chat with a Librarian, M-F: 9am-5pm Request a consultation for personal, in-depth assistance. Email your question. Chat with a Biomedical Librarian, M-F: 9am-5pm Browse Our Answers Featured Do we have access to the New York Times web site? Last Updated: Jul 20, 2020 | Topics: Search and Find| Views: 10320 How do I access JSTOR? Last Updated: Jul 20, 2020 | Topics: Search and Find| Views: 5537 How can I access the Wall Street Journal (WSJ.com)? Last Updated: Sep 15, 2020 | Topics: Search and Find| Views: 15189 How can I access the Digital Library for Alumni? Last Updated: May 23, 2022 | Topics: Alumni Services| Views: 735 How do I request books through BorrowDirect? Last Updated: May 26, 2020 | Topics: Borrow From Other Libraries| Views: 390 How do I go about placing material on reserve at any of the libraries? Last Updated: May 21, 2020 | Topics: Course Reserves| Views: 84 Do we have access to the Financial Times? Last Updated: Jul 13, 2020 | Topics: Business Search and Find| Views: 1652 Live Chat! Powered by Springshare; All rights reserved. Report a tech support issue. Login to LibApps Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Faculty Services Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy