Skip to Main Content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Go to search results Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More About the Library Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2020-21 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization Article Express Your Accounts More About the Library+ Events and Workshops Exhibitions For Alumni Policies and Guidelines Staff Directory Visitors More Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Princeton University Library PUL Scheduler Events and Workshops Your browser has javascript disabled. Without javascript some functions will not work. Guided Tour of "Through A Glass Darkly: Alchemy and the Ripley Scrolls 1400-1700" Event box Print the page Add to a Calendar using iCal Share page on Facebook Share page on Twitter A 45-minute guided tour of the latest exhibition in the Milberg Gallery in Firestone Library at Princeton University. Tours meet in the lobby of Firestone Library. The exhibition is open daily from noon to 6 p.m. in the Milberg Gallery, Firestone Library. Open to the public; vaccination self-attestation and sign-in required. Date: Saturday, June 4, 2022 Time: 1:00pm - 1:45pm Location: Firestone Lobby Campus: Firestone Library Audience: First-Year Graduate Students Friends of Princeton University Library Independent Scholar / Outside Researcher Member of the Public Princeton Alumni Princeton Faculty/Researcher Princeton Staff Princeton Student Student Friends of Princeton University Library Categories: Events Powered by Springshare. All rights reserved. Report a tech support issue. Login to LibApps Cymraeg English español français Irish 日本語 Nihongo slovenski jezik Tiếng Việt 中文 Zhōngwén Research Tools Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Catalog Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Exhibitions Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University. All rights reserved.