skip to content Students Academics News + Events Research Giving Menu x Undergraduate Students Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Orientation Internal Transfer Majors & Minors Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Courses Languages Career Services Apply x Current Undergraduates Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Study Abroad Scholarships & Awards Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Overview Orientation Internal Transfer Degree Options Graduate Students Graduate Studies Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Academic Areas Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Administration Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS About Message from the Dean College Leadership Mission Statement History of the College Contact Connect Ways of Giving Get Involved Annual Impact Report Dean’s Circle Pro Bene Meritis Award Questions? Current student with a question? Prospective student with a question? Parent with a question? Questions about this website? Search the College of Liberal Arts Life & Letters Magazine College Viewbook Events News Courses Languages Career Services Apply Give Resources for Faculty and Staff Graduate Studies Intro text TBD A Message from Associate Dean Robert Crosnoe Associate Dean Robert Crosnoe Across 34 programs and areas of study, graduate students pursuing Ph.D. and M.A. degrees in the College of Liberal Arts enjoy high-quality instruction, cutting-edge research training, and professional socialization that set up a diverse array of career pathways. Working alongside expert faculty, our graduate students enjoy extensive opportunities to develop as scholars who can make significant contributions to the state of knowledge about a range of important and timely topics. The Office of Research and Graduate Studies provides support to graduate students on their journeys, including but not limited to distributing fellowships funds and travel awards, managing policies governing academic and employment activities, organizing career services, acting as a liaison between students and the Graduate School, and supporting applications for external funding for research and study. As students, researchers, teaching assistants, assistant instructors, and research assistants, graduate students play a crucial role in the mission of the College of Liberal Arts, and the Office of Research and Graduate Studies is here to serve them. Support for Student External Fellowships and Grants Liberal Arts Research Support Office Tuition Grants [new program; info forthcoming]Learn More Internal Fellowship Opportunities Graduate School Fellowship OpportunitiesLearn More Travel Professional Development Travel/Fieldwork Grants (Endowment supported) Graduate Student Group-Organized Conference FundingLearn More Graduate Teaching Faculty Innovation Center COLA TA Handbook Liberal Arts Instructional Technology Services (LAITS)Learn More Career Services Liberal Arts Career Services Graduate Career & Professional DevelopmentLearn More Student Services and Supports • University Health Services • Services for Students with Disabilities • Title IX • University Counseling and Mental Health Center • Office of Institutional Equity • Texas One Stop • UT Behavior Concerns • UT Outpost Food Pantry and Career Closet • UT Student Emergency Services • UT Student Emergency Fund • Liberal Arts Student FundLearn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More Prospective Students The College of Liberal Arts strives to matriculate outstanding doctoral students and provide them with the training, experience, and support necessary for successful completion of their respective degrees and placement in academic and other training-related jobs upon graduation. The College awards graduate degrees through 25 departments, centers, institutes, and programs. As of Fall 2015, 1,301 graduate students are enrolled in the College, most of them pursuing PhDs. The College aims for a median time to degree across programs of 6.5 years to the PhD and two years to the MA. Information about specific degree requirements and estimated timelines to reach the milestones of each PhD program is available here. Average costs of attendance can be found here. How to Apply Application for graduate studies at the University of Texas at Austin is a two-step process that includes applying to the Graduate School and to individual Departments and other academic units. Prospective Students The College of Liberal Arts strives to matriculate outstanding doctoral students and provide them with the training, experience, and support necessary for successful completion of their respective degrees and placement in academic and other training-related jobs upon graduation.How to Apply Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Course Descriptions Academic Calendar Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Resources for Faculty and Staff Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 The College of Liberal Arts The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr. Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021