skip to content Menu x We've Redesigned! The College of Liberal Arts has launched a redesign of this site (and all of our other department, center, and unit sites). All information from the previous site is still available, but may have been moved. You can use the MENU button on the top right to find the information you are looking for and don't forget to update your bookmarks. × Home Edit Headline Text Edit Subhead Text Welcome to Liberal Arts Career Services, where our goal is to help liberal arts student translate their liberal arts education into a world of opportunities. To schedule an appointment with a career coach or browse job & internship postings, please sign-in via Handshake. Handshake Resumes & Cover Letters Career Exploration Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Contact Us General contact information and staff list:Learn More Employers Reach out here:Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 College Administration Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies LAITS Resources for Faculty and Staff Course Descriptions General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021