skip to content Menu x BA in Italian B. A. Degree Requirements in Italian This caption describes the image above. Degree Plans For current degree plans, please see: College of Liberal Arts Degree Plans To run an interactive degree audit (IDA), click here. Italian Studies Major (2020-2022 Catalog) The Italian Studies Major consists of twenty-four semester hours of upper-division coursework in Italian, including: Italian (ITL) 320 “Advanced Italian” Three hours in ITL courses chosen from: ITL 321 “Introduction to Italian Literature” or ITL 325C “Italian Through Cinema” or ITL 328 “Composition and Conversation” Three hours in Italian Civilization (ITC) Fifteen hours in additional ITL upper-division. Up to three hours of ITC may be counted for three hours of additional ITL upper-division. Up to three hours of Liberal Arts (LA) 320 may be counted for three hours of additional ITC. Back to top. Italian Studies Major (2018-2020 Catalog) The Italian Studies Major consists of twenty-four semester hours of upper-division coursework, including: ITL 320 Three hours chosen from: ITL 321 ITL 325C or ITL 328 Twelve hours of upper-division ITL coursework Three hours of ITC coursework Three upper-division hours chosen from: upper-division ITL ITC or LA 321J “Italian Studies Internship” Italian Major (2016-2018 Catalog and prior) Twenty-four semester hours of upper-division coursework in Italian, including: ITL 328 ITL 329 ITL 321 15 additional hours of upper division ITL coursework Six hours of ITC may be counted towards the major Accordion 4 Panel 4. Add body text in this space. Accordion 5 Panel 5. Add body text in this space. Required Minor for Italian Majors Nearly all Liberal Arts majors require a minor. Regardless of your catalog, you must see your major advisor to declare a minor. Only one minor per major is permitted. Minor - 2016-2018 and later catalogs For students starting in Fall 2016 and later. Completion of 15-21 hours of prescribed coursework in a different field of study than the major is required. A complete list of approved minors, requirements, and instructions on how to declare can be found online. Some minors are restricted and may require an application. A transcript-recognized certificate may also satisfy this requirement. Minor - 2014-2016 and earlier catalogs Either (1) twelve semester hours, including at least six hours of upper-division coursework, in any one other field of study in the University; Or (2) A complete foreign language sequence not used for the foreign language requirement. Must include 9 hours total, 6 hours in residence, and 3 hours upper-division. Back to top. Undergraduate Academic Advisor frit-advising@utexas.edu BEN 2.108 (Office open for brief questions only, T-Th 9am-12pm & 1pm-3pm) Advising Sessions: Appointment Request Virtual Walk-In Availability (no appointment necessary)Learn More Undergraduate Faculty Advisors Undergraduate Italian Faculty Advisor Antonella Del Fattore-Olson HRH 2.106B (please email for availability) adolson@austin.utexas.eduLearn More Useful Links Undergraduate Advising Information Registration Information Sheet (RIS) Current Catalog Information (catalog.utexas.edu) Current Course Schedule Information (registrar.utexas.edu) Study Abroad in RomeLearn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More Why Study Italian? 🇮🇹🌍 Why study Italian? Check out this video and explore course offerings in the department here: bit.ly/utfrit Course Schedule Study Abroad: Rome Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 College Administration Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies LAITS Resources for Faculty and Staff Course Descriptions General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021