skip to content Menu x We've Redesigned! The College of Liberal Arts has launched a redesign of this site (and all of our other department, center, and unit sites). All information from the previous site is still available, but may have been moved. You can use the MENU button on the top right to find the information you are looking for and don't forget to update your bookmarks. × Department of Sociology Ranked 6th among public universities Tied for 11th among all universities Interviews with Deb Umberson, Gloria González-López, and Jennifer Glass in celebration of their lifetime ASA achievement awards: Deb Umberson Gloria González-López Jennifer Glass Welcome The Sociology Department office is open between 9-4 on Monday-Friday during the semester. All staff are currently working in person and remotely, so please contact us via email if you have any questions or need assistance. The department is abiding by all official university and government policies and guidelines effective immediately, including those pertaining to travel, visitors, meetings, and events, in addition to research and instruction. For the latest updates, please refer to the university webpage. The Department of Sociology at The University of Texas at Austin is among the largest and highest-ranked Sociology departments in the country. The US News and World Report Guide to Graduate Departments ranks UT Austin Sociology 6th among public universities, and tied for 11th among all universities. The Department's faculty offer undergraduate and graduate students a wide range of educational and research opportunities. The Department's strong scholarly reputation and Austin's rich quality of life attract leading early-career and senior sociologists and top-notch students to call UT Austin home. Why major in Sociology? Learn more about the Department Learn more about the faculty Sociology Department Ph.D. job candidates Follow us on Facebook and Twitter. Welcome The Sociology Department office is open between 9-4 on Monday-Friday during the semester. All staff are currently working in person and remotely, so please contact us via email if you have any questions or need assistance. The department is abiding by all official university and government policies and guidelines effective immediately, including those pertaining to travel, visitors, meetings, and events, in addition to research and instruction. For the latest updates, please refer to the university webpage. The Department of Sociology at The University of Texas at Austin is among the largest and highest-ranked Sociology departments in the country. The US News and World Report Guide to Graduate Departments ranks UT Austin Sociology 6th among public universities, and tied for 11th among all universities. The Department's faculty offer undergraduate and graduate students a wide range of educational and research opportunities. The Department's strong scholarly reputation and Austin's rich quality of life attract leading early-career and senior sociologists and top-notch students to call UT Austin home. Why major in Sociology? Learn more about the Department Learn more about the faculty Sociology Department Ph.D. job candidates This caption describes the image above. Interviews with Deb Umberson, Gloria González-López, and Jennifer Glass in celebration of their lifetime ASA achievement awards: Deb Umberson Gloria González-López Jennifer Glass Undergraduate Advising Graduate Advising Undergraduate Blog Graduate Blog Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Events News Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 College Administration Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies LAITS Resources for Faculty and Staff Course Descriptions General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021