skip to content Students Academics News + Events Research Giving Menu x Undergraduate Students Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Orientation Internal Transfer Majors & Minors Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Courses Languages Career Services Apply x Current Undergraduates Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Study Abroad Scholarships & Awards Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Overview Orientation Internal Transfer Degree Options Graduate Students Graduate Studies Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Academic Areas Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Administration Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS About Message from the Dean College Leadership Mission Statement History of the College Contact Connect Ways of Giving Get Involved Annual Impact Report Dean’s Circle Pro Bene Meritis Award Questions? Current student with a question? Prospective student with a question? Parent with a question? Questions about this website? Search the College of Liberal Arts Life & Letters Magazine College Viewbook Events News Courses Languages Career Services Apply Give Resources for Faculty and Staff Impact Report The value of a liberal arts education is not only in the topics we study, but also the skills we develop. Our classes instill the ability to think critically and independently, to write and reason, and to communicate clearly, all lifelong assets to Longhorn students. Achieving excellence in education and in research, our faculty are making contributions that are transforming lives. There is so much of which to be proud in the College of Liberal Arts. We invite you to read our Annual Impact Report and see what your support makes possible on the Forty Acres and beyond. Annual Impact Report Read a little about what we've been able to accomplish the 2020-21 fiscal year with your help:Latest Issue Here Mid-Year Impact Report Read a little about what we've been able to accomplish midway through the 2020-21 fiscal year with your help:Latest Issue Here Give Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Course Descriptions Academic Calendar Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Resources for Faculty and Staff Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 The College of Liberal Arts The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr. Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021