Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search About Office of the Dean Faculty and Staff News & Events Media Mentions Diversity & Inclusion Community Engagement Initiatives & Opportunities CLA Translation Institute CLA Translation Institute Staff Information Technology Marketing and Communications Admissions Undergraduate Admissions First-Year Applicants Cost, Financial Aid and Scholarships Transfer Students International Students Honors Program Contact Us Visit Us Graduate Admissions How to Apply Cost, Aid and More International Students Visit Us Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Undergraduate Certificates and Minors Graduate Certificates Online Degrees and Programs Departments and Programs Students Academic Advising Video Resources for Undergraduate Students Professional Development Accelerated Degrees Student Ambassador Program Study Abroad Student Organizations Awards and Scholarships Sonkin-Weisman Scholars Program Beyond the Classroom Resources Research Undergraduate Research Liberal Arts Undergraduate Research Awards LAURA Scholars Testimonials Graduate Research Faculty Research Initiatives Research Administration Faculty Resources Labs, Centers and Institutes Alumni Alumni Association Board of Visitors Giving Donor Spotlight Temple University News Events College of Liberal Arts Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Accelerated Degrees You are here Home Students Accelerated Degrees About Office of the Dean Faculty and Staff News & Events Media Mentions Diversity & Inclusion Community Engagement Initiatives & Opportunities CLA Translation Institute CLA Translation Institute Staff Information Technology Marketing and Communications Admissions Undergraduate Admissions First-Year Applicants Cost, Financial Aid and Scholarships Transfer Students International Students Honors Program Contact Us Visit Us Graduate Admissions How to Apply Cost, Aid and More International Students Visit Us Contact Us Academics Undergraduate Degree Programs Graduate Degree Programs Undergraduate Certificates and Minors Graduate Certificates Online Degrees and Programs Departments and Programs Students Academic Advising Video Resources for Undergraduate Students Professional Development Accelerated Degrees Student Ambassador Program Study Abroad Student Organizations Awards and Scholarships Sonkin-Weisman Scholars Program Beyond the Classroom Resources Research Undergraduate Research Liberal Arts Undergraduate Research Awards LAURA Scholars Testimonials Graduate Research Faculty Research Initiatives Research Administration Faculty Resources Labs, Centers and Institutes Alumni Alumni Association Board of Visitors Giving Donor Spotlight Accelerated Degrees We offer several accelerated degree programs arranged between undergraduate and graduate departments. These programs enable academically qualified students to earn a bachelor's and an advanced degree—graduating sooner than they would have completing two distinct programs. Eligible undergraduate students use up to 12 specified graduate credits approved by the College of Liberal Arts to fulfill requirements for their undergraduate degree. Upon graduation from their undergraduate program, students move seamlessly into their graduate program which they complete, in most cases, in one additional year. Interested students should meet with their advisor as soon as possible to discuss requirements for eligibility and the application process. College of Liberal Arts Accelerated Degrees BA in Criminal Justice + MA in Criminal Justice High-achieving undergraduates will be invited by the faculty of the Criminal Justice Department to apply for the 4+1 BA/MA accelerated program. Students admitted to this program begin taking graduate courses, along with their undergraduate curriculum, in their last three undergraduate semesters. After completing their Bachelor of Arts degree, they then complete the remaining requirements of a Master of Arts in Criminal Justice in the 5th year. Twelve credits of graduate work may count for both the Bachelor's and Master's degree programs; these are used as Criminal Justice major electives in the undergraduate degree. Eligible students will have a minimum 3.5 overall GPA and will be able to complete their Bachelor's degree in three semesters by the time they are admitted to the 4+1 program in the spring of their Junior year. Students must have completed or be enrolled in the following courses to be considered for this program: CJ 1001, CJ 2401, CJ 2597 (formerly CJ 2601), and CJ 2602. Eligible students will receive notification at the end of their Sophomore year, and applications will be accepted until September 30th of their Junior year. Contact Corissa Reilly Academic Advisor 509 Gladfelter Hall 215-204-7919 corissa.reilly@temple.edu BA in Economics + MA in Economics Admissions Process Application Deadline June 1 following your sophomore year. Admission Date Admissions decisions will be made by the end of June. Exceptions: The department may consider students who apply by the end of the fall semester of their junior year. If admitted, they will have to take multiple graduate courses in the fall of their senior year. Application to Graduate School During the fall of their junior year, students who are admitted to the 4+1 program must apply to the graduate school for formal admission to the economics graduate program. Prerequisites By the time of application, the applicant should have completed Calculus III (Math 2043) or the equivalent, Linear Algebra (Math 2101) or the equivalent, Statistics (Statistics 2103, Math 2031) or the equivalent, Intermediate Microeconomics (Econ 3501) or the equivalent, and Intermediate Macroeconomics (Econ 3502) or the equivalent. GPA Requirement Overall GPA: 3.5 Overall economics GPA: 3.7 Standardized Tests Students admitted to the 4+1 program do not have to take the GRE. How to Apply to 4+1 The application package specified as follows must be submitted to the Economics Department before the deadline. An application form. Personal statement detailing the motivation for seeking an accelerated MA degree. Two recommendations from Temple University faculty, at least one of whom is the student’s instructor in an upper-level economics class. A Temple University transcript including the latest semester’s grades (unofficial transcripts are acceptable). Official transcripts from any other university the student has attended (if applicable). Funding Currently, there is no funding from CLA or the Economics Department. Students will pay full graduate-level tuition. More questions? Please contact the program coordinator if you want to learn more about the program and the application process. Contact Douglas Webber Director of Graduate Studies 877 Ritter Annex 215-204-5025 douglas.webber@temple.edu Ms. Linda Wyatt Graduate Program Coordinator 215-204-6638 ldwyatt@temple.edu BA in English + MA in English The 4+1 Accelerated BA/MA degree program is open to Temple English majors and is designed to allow students to graduate with both a master’s degree and an undergraduate BA in English within five years of matriculating at Temple University. The program is designed for high-achieving English majors who have excelled in the first three years of their undergraduate studies, and who seek out the credential of a master’s degree as an aid in teaching, publishing or writing positions or in acquiring a competitive edge in applying to PhD programs. Students apply during their junior year. Admissions Process Program Requirements In addition to fulfilling all the requirements for the undergraduate BA degree in English by the end of their fourth year, students in the 4+1 Accelerated BA/MA degree program must also complete all of the following requirements for the English MA by the end of their fifth year. Nine English graduate courses (27 credits), one of which must be at the advanced level (8000–9000) Three graduate courses in the fourth or senior year; these three graduate courses will substitute for three required courses for the undergraduate major. Six graduate courses in their fifth or MA year English 9996: Masters Essay (three credits) in spring semester of fifth year Masters qualifying essay Language requirement Coursework Nine courses (27 credits) plus three credits of ENG 9996: Masters Essay are required for the MA degree in English (30 credits total). In their fourth year, students are required to take three graduate courses. In the fall semester, accelerated MA students take ENG 9001: Introduction to Graduate Studies. In spring, they may enroll in a 5000 or 8000 level course, in consultation with the director of graduate studies, who serves as advisor for graduate courses. In their fifth or MA year, students are required to take a total of six graduate courses—three courses in the fall and three courses in the spring. These courses may be selected from any of the 5000–9000 level courses, and one of these courses must be an advanced, 8000–9000 level course. ENG 9996: Masters Essay In the final semester of their fifth year, students must also enroll in three credits of ENG 9996: Masters Essay. While enrolled in ENG 9996, the student will work under the guidance of a faculty mentor on the master's qualifying essay and submit the qualifying essay by the spring semester deadline for acceptance by the program. Masters Qualifying Essay The qualifying essay is typically a substantial revision of a paper submitted for a course and is written in the final semester under the guidance of a faculty mentor, who must also approve the essay for submission. The qualifying essay demonstrates the student’s ability to write perceptively, lucidly and at length (4,000–6,000 words) on a literary subject, and is due in the final semester by a date specified in the graduate English calendar. Language Requirement Students are required to demonstrate reading knowledge of one foreign language by either passing a translation exam or completing six credits of language courses beyond the intermediate language level. They may complete this requirement in either their fourth or fifth year. Admissions Students interested in the 4+1 Accelerated BA/MA degree program should apply for admission in the spring semester of their junior year. Applications are due to the English Graduate Office by March 15, and a decision will be provided to the applicant in April. Students admitted to the accelerated master's program will have demonstrated exceptional achievement in their coursework during the first five semesters at Temple University. Prospective applicants to the program should be English majors who are able to complete the undergraduate English BA in four years. However, in rare instances, a student who will be able to complete the requirements of the English major in the course of a five-year program will be allowed to enter the BA/MA program. Eligibility is limited to students who will be able to complete both the BA and MA in five years; transfer students who will be able to complete both programs in five years are eligible to apply. Requirements for Admission Student has completed 21 of the required 36 required English courses in order to apply. Undergraduate GPA in English of at least 3.8 Overall GPA of at least 3.5 in at least 45 credits of coursework taken at Temple By the end of the student's junior year, all of required 2000 level courses will have been completed: English 2001, Interpreting Literature and two of the following: English 2501: Introduction to British Writing, English 2502: Introduction to American Writing, English 2503: Introduction to Global Writing and two 2000-level electives. Applications must include a cover sheet (available from the English graduate program). two letters of recommendation from full-time Temple University faculty. Please consult with the director of graduate studies if you have any questions about whom to ask for letters. a statement of purpose outlining the student’s goals for entering the accelerated BA/MA program. a writing sample that shows the student’s ability to complete graduate-level courses. Students will supply a writing sample drawn from an upper-division English course taken at Temple University. Students will be notified of the committee’s decision in April. Students will receive admission to the program conditional on their successful completion of necessary major requirements in the spring semester, as well as on maintaining a 3.5 overall GPA. Contact Gabriel Wettach Undergraduate Advisor 1030 Mazur Hall 215-204-8510 gabe@temple.edu BA in Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies + MA in Sociology The Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies program offers three distinct +1 accelerated degrees that incorporate a wide range of areas of study. The three accelerated program offerings are 4+1 Dual Degree: gender, sexuality and women’s studies (BA) + MA in sociology; 4+1 Dual Degree: gender, sexuality and women’s studies (BA) + adult and organizational development (MEd); and 4+1 Dual Degree: gender, sexuality and women’s studies (BA) + urban education (MEd). Admissions Process Gender, Sexuality and Women’s Studies BA + MA in Sociology This accelerated program is for gender, sexuality and women’s studies (GSWS) majors in the junior year who are interested in preparing for careers in research, social services or nonprofit leadership. This program will provide students with the knowledge and skills that would make them competitive in the workforce and help them make a positive contribution in fields that include research, social services and nonprofits. Admissions Applications will be due to the Sociology Department by March 1, and a decision will be provided to the students by April 15. Applications will be reviewed by the Sociology Graduate Admissions Committee, in consultation with the GSWS director. We do not anticipate more than a few students to be admitted annually, at most. Students will receive admission to the program conditional on their successful completion of their spring semester courses, as well as maintaining a cumulative GPA of 3.25, with a GPA of 3.5 in the GSWS major. In the spring of senior year, students will submit an official Temple University graduate school application. Students will be officially admitted to the graduate program before the start of the summer semester following their senior year. Applications must include the Sociology Department 4+1 master’s program application. two letters of recommendation from full-time Temple University GSWS faculty (tell faculty to email these to socadmis@temple.edu). a statement of purpose outlining the student’s goals for entering the accelerated BA/MA program (you should email this to socadmis@temple.edu). a writing sample that shows the student’s ability to complete graduate-level courses, drawn from an upper-division course taken at Temple University (send in the same email as the statement of purpose). The GRE requirement is waived. Tuition Students will pay full tuition for the entire program. For the three graduate courses that will substitute for Sociology 3000+ courses, the students will pay undergraduate, not graduate, tuition. For the seven graduate courses taken in the fifth year, students will pay graduate tuition. Requirements The BA-level requirements for 4+1 students are the same as the requirements for our existing GSWS BA students. The MA-level requirement for the 4+1 students are the same as the requirements for our existing sociology MA students EXCEPT that 4+1 students will replace one open elective with the specific options of either the Internship in Social Research or the Sociology Independent Study, or an approved elective from another department, school or college. This allows students to gain three credits during a summer session when our department does not offer graduate-level courses. Graduate course sequencing (PDF) Questions? Email the graduate director, Professor Josh Klugman: klugman@temple.edu. GSWS BA + MEd Accelerated Degrees Please follow the links below to view your program of interest. You can read more about the program requirements, dates and deadlines, and instructions on how to apply. 4+1 Dual degree: gender, sexuality and women’s studies (BA) + adult and organizational development (MEd) 4+1 Dual degree: gender, sexuality and women’s studies (BA) + urban education (MEd) Contact Josh Klugman Gladfelter Hall klugman@temple.edu BA in Geography and Urban Studies or Environmental Studies + MA in Geography and Urban Studies Accelerated Degree Admissions Process Students may apply for the accelerated master’s program as early as the second semester of their sophomore year for junior year entry, and as late as the second semester of their junior year for senior year entry. In the second semester of their senior year, students must formally apply to the MA in geography and urban studies for entry the following semester. Accelerated Degree Eligibility Requirements Undergraduate GPA of at least 3.25 Completed 60 credit hours or more towards the undergraduate degree Statement of goals (500–1,000 words) Approval from an academic advisor in the student’s primary college, indicating how many credits (up to 12) can be dedicated to the accelerated degree Two letters of support from faculty (from ageway courses or research design) Passed the courses listed below with a B or higher For Geography and Urban Studies Majors GUS 2001: Cities GUS 2002: Space and Place GUS 2197: Research Design For Environmental Studies Science Majors ENST 2001: Environment and Society ENST 2002: Physical Geography ENST 2097: Research Design To Apply Fill out the MA in GUS Accelerated Degree Application form and upload the following: - Statement of Goals (500-1,000 words) - Approval from an advisor indicating how many credits can be used for the accelerated degree. Two letters of recommendations from faculty sent directly to guses@temple.edu Have additional questions? If you want to learn more about the program and the application process please email the program coordinator. Contact Liz Janczewski Student Services Coordinator guses@temple.edu BA+ MPP in Public Policy Admissions Process The master of public policy (MPP) +1 program allows promising students to complete undergraduate and MPP degrees in five years. Normally, completing each degree separately takes six years. You can apply for the accelerated degree program as a junior or senior. If you are admitted as a junior you will take four three-credit courses (12 credits total) as an undergraduate and take the remaining 24 credits as a full-time MPP student in the summer following graduation and during your +1 year. If you enter the +1 program as a senior, you will take three three-credit courses (nine credits total) in your final year as an undergraduate and the remaining 27 credits after as a full-time MPP student during the summer following graduation and your +1 year. As an added bonus, the MPP credits you take as an undergraduate count toward both your graduate and bachelor’s degree. All required MPP courses and select electives are held at the Center City campus in the evenings. Program of Study Students who enroll in their junior year would take the following sequence of courses (four courses at three credits equals 12 credits). Junior Year Fall semester: Statistics for Public Policy Spring semester: Policymaking Process Senior Year Fall semester: Economic Decisions for Public Policy, Policy Analysis Spring semester: None Students who enroll in their senior year would take the following sequence of courses (three courses at three credits equals nine credits). Senior Year Fall semester: Statistics and Economic Decisions for Public Policy Spring semester: Policymaking Process Capital Semester in Harrisburg or Washington, D.C. The Washington Semester and the Pennsylvania Capital Semester provide you opportunities to gain valuable career experience, while remaining a full-time student. If you are accepted into the +1 accelerated degree program, your MPP internship requirement is fulfilled by your semester or summer in Washington/Harrisburg by registering for PLCY 5085. In addition, if you participate in the Capital Semester program, you must make up the required MPP course you would take at Temple during your +1 year. Application Requirements You may apply to the program as a junior after you’ve earned 45 credits toward your bachelor’s degree. If you are accepted, you will take an MPP course each of the remaining four semesters as an undergraduate. If you want to enter the program as a senior, apply once you have earned 75 credits or more toward your bachelor’s degree. As a successful applicant, you are officially admitted to the MPP program effective in the summer session after you graduate with your bachelor’s degree. You are not required to take the GRE exam or to take any particular courses or course of study as prequisites for admission. Overall undergraduate GPA of at least 3.5 or higher Résumé Personal statement that addresses your goals in the +1 program, followed by a meeting with the MPP director to discuss your suitability Approval to enter the program from the director of the MPP program Proof that you are able to devote nine credits as free electives if you are admitted as a senior (or 12 credits if you enter as juniors) outside of your undergraduate major. You are also permitted to count specific MPP courses towards your major requirements, or some combination (PLCY 8118, PLCY 8119 and PLCY 8001) qualify for the BA and MPP for political science majors and economics majors may replace STAT 2103 with PLCY 8001). Begin by meeting with undergraduate advising to review your schedule. Your undergraduate advisor will email the MPP program to confirm there is space in your schedule for the +1 coursework. You will then be required to complete a brief interview with the MPP Program Director. Wait until after this interview to submit the rest of the required documents and asking references to submit letters of recommendation. Submit all materials to mpp@temple.edu with +1 Admissions in the subject line. Contact Samantha Apgar Associate Director 832 Mazur Hall 215-204-7817 mpp@temple.edu BS in Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity + MS in Neuroscience: Systems, Behavior and Plasticity Admissions Process The +1 BS in neuroscience: systems, behavior and plasticity + MS in neuroscience: systems, behavior and plasticity program offers outstanding Temple University neuroscience majors the opportunity to earn both the BS and MS in neuroscience in just five years. Admission to the program is highly selective. The program is designed to provide a research-intensive experience, advanced coursework and professional development to students who intend to pursue doctoral studies in any of the academic neuroscience disciplines. Students apply to the program in the spring semester of the junior year after completing a minimum of 72 undergraduate credits. Additionally, students must have a faculty sponsor who has agreed to mentor the student’s master’s project research during the four-semester program. The accelerated +1 MS degree program consists of a maximum of 113 semester hours of undergraduate coursework, a maximum of 10 semester hours of graduate coursework to count towards both the undergraduate and the graduate degrees, and an additional 20 semester hours of graduate coursework as a graduate student. Upon successful completion of the fourth year, students receive a BS in neuroscience (using 10 credits of graduate coursework) if they have met all other degree requirements. At the end of the contiguous fifth year, students receive a MS in neuroscience. Admission Requirements Neuroscience GPA: 3.67 Overall GPA: 3.67 A mentorship agreement from the faculty sponsor Applications Applications are due April 1 of junior year Student Application Materials Assemble and submit the following materials as email attachments to neuro@temple.edu. All materials must be submitted in a single email. Unofficial undergraduate transcripts +1 application form (form will download) Signed faculty sponsor agreement (form will download) A personal statement describing the reasons for pursuing a master’s degree, current research interests, research experience and future career goals Letters of recommendation Two letters of recommendation from Temple University faculty are required. At least one letter must be from a faculty member affiliated with the College of Liberal Arts neuroscience program. Please request that faculty recommenders submit the letter as an email attachment to neuro@temple.edu, with the applicant’s full name in the subject line. Contact neuro@temple.edu Professional Science Master’s in Geographic Information Systems (PSM in GIS) Accelerated Degree Admissions Process The PSM in GIS accelerated degree combines advanced training in GIS core skills with professional development and business ethics to prepare students to enter the GIS workforce. Students may apply for the accelerated master’s program as early as the second semester of their sophomore year for junior year entry, and as late as the second semester of their junior year for senior year entry. In the second semester of their senior year, students must formally apply to the PSM in GIS for entry the following semester or summer session. Accelerated Degree Eligibility Requirements Undergraduate GPA of at least 3.25 Passed both GUS/ENST 3062: Fundamentals of GIS and GUS/ENST 3161: Spatial Statistics or an approved cognate with a B or higher Statement of goals (500–1,000 words) Approval from an academic advisor in the student’s primary college, indicating how many credits (up to 12) can be dedicated to the accelerated degree Two letters of support from faculty (GIS and statistics faculty recommended) To Apply Fill out the PSM in GIS Accelerated Degree Application form and upload the following: - Statement of Goals (500-1,000 words) - Approval from an advisor indicating how many credits can be used for the accelerated degree. Two letters of recommendations from faculty sent directly to guses@temple.edu Have additional questions? If you want to learn more about the program and the application process please email the program coordinator. Contact Liz Janczewski Student Services Coordinator guses@temple.edu BA in Psychology + MS in Psychological Research Admissions Process The +1 master's in psychological research offers outstanding Temple University psychology majors the opportunity to earn both the bachelor of arts in psychology and the master of science in psychological research in just five years. Admission to the program is highly selective. The program provides a research-intensive experience, advanced coursework and professional development to students who intend to pursue doctoral studies in any of the academic psychology disciplines. Students admitted to the program will complete 30 credits during their senior year, of which nine credits are graduate courses. These nine credits will count toward both the BA and MS degrees. Each student will work with a faculty sponsor to develop and implement a master’s project. On completion of the senior year, students receive the BA in psychology, then are formally admitted to the MS program in psychological research (with nine graduate credits already completed). During the fifth year, +1 students will complete 23 graduate credits, including courses in research methods, statistics, ethics, topical seminars, a professional development seminar series and master’s project research. Please visit the Master of Science in Psychological Research page to read more about the program and see full requirements, deadlines and the application process. BA in Sociology + MA in Sociology Admissions Process This +1 BA in sociology/MA in sociology accelerated program will provide students with the knowledge and skills that would make them competitive in the workforce and help them make a positive contribution in fields that include research, social services and nonprofits. Sociology majors who are in their junior year and who are interested in preparing for careers in research, social services or nonprofit leadership are eligible. Applications will be due to the sociology department by March 1, and a decision will be provided to the students by April 15. Applications will be reviewed by the Sociology Graduate Admissions Committee. We do not anticipate more than a few students to be admitted annually, at most. Students will receive admission to the program conditional on their successful completion of their spring semester courses, as well as maintaining a cumulative GPA of 3.25, with a GPA of 3.5 in the sociology major. In the spring of the senior year, students will submit an official Temple University graduate school application. Students will be officially admitted to the graduate program before the start of the summer semester following their senior year. Applications must include the Sociology Department 4+1 master’s program application, two letters of recommendation from full-time Temple University sociology faculty (tell faculty to email these to socadmis@temple.edu), a statement of purpose outlining the student’s goals for entering the accelerated BA/MA program (you should email this to socadmis@temple.edu) and a writing sample that shows the student’s ability to complete graduate level courses, drawn from an upper-division course taken at Temple University (send in the same email as the statement of purpose). The GRE requirement is waived. Tuition Students will pay full tuition for the entire program. For the three graduate courses that will substitute for sociology 3000+ courses, the students will pay undergraduate, not graduate, tuition. For the seven graduate courses taken in the fifth year, students will pay graduate tuition. Requirements The BA level requirements for 4+1 students are the same as the requirements for our existing sociology BA students. The MA level requirement for the 4+1 students are the same as the requirements for our existing sociology MA students EXCEPT that 4+1 students will replace one open elective with the specific options of either the Internship in Social Research or the Sociology Independent Study, or an approved elective from another department, school or college. This allows students to gain three credits during a summer session when our department does not offer graduate-level courses. Graduate course sequencing (pdf) Questions? Email the graduate director, Professor Josh Klugman: klugman@temple.edu. Additional Accelerated Degree Offerings Please follow the links below to view your program of interest. You can read more about the program requirements, dates and deadlines and instructions on how to apply. 4+1 program: BA in sociology + MEd in adult and organizational development 4+1 program: BA in sociology + MEd in urban education Contact Josh Klugman Gladfelter Hall klugman@temple.edu Go back to StudentsMore in Students Academic Advising Professional Development Accelerated Degrees Student Ambassador Program Study Abroad Student Organizations Awards and Scholarships Beyond the Classroom Resources Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University College of Liberal Arts Mazur Hall, 12th Floor 1114 W. Polett WalkPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA CLA Facebook CLA Twitter CLA Instagram Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Apply Visit Request More Info