skip to content Menu x Asian Studies BA Specialization in East Asia, Taiwan, or South Asia The undergraduate major in Asian Studies provides a solid and broad background in classical and contemporary Asia for students with a variety of career goals. Students take courses from a variety of disciplines, including anthropology, history, literature, politics, philosophy, and religious studies. In addition, Asian Studies majors must take at least two years of an Asian language approved for their area of interest. The department offers specializations in East Asia, Taiwan, and South Asia. For a list of approved courses for the following specializations, see the Area List page. East Asia Specialization Requirements (download PDF) Foreign language: Fourth semester proficiency in Chinese, Japanese, or Korean 24 semester hours including at least 18 hours of upper-division coursework (a list of approved courses is available in the Department of Asian Studies): 3 hours of East Asian History 3 hours of Asian Studies related to South Asia 3 hours specified Asian Studies Capstone Seminar ANS 379 15 additional hours of Asian Studies related to East Asia It is recommended that students take courses in more than one East Asian cultural area. These 15 hours may include 6 hours of upper-division coursework in Chinese, Japanese or Korean language. See the Area List page for a list of approved courses for this requirement. Taiwan Specialization Requirements (download PDF) Foreign language: Fourth semester proficiency in Chinese with a focus on traditional characters 24 semester hours including at least 18 hours of upper-division coursework (a list of approved courses is available in the Department of Asian Studies): 3 hours of Taiwanese History 3 hours of Asian Studies related to South Asia 3 hours specified Asian Studies Capstone Seminar ANS 379 6 hours of Asian Studies related to Taiwan 3 hours of Asian Studies related to China 3 hours of Asian Studies related to Japan 3 hours of upper-division coursework in Chinese language or in Asian Studies related to East Asia See the Area List page for a list of approved courses for this requirement. South Asia Specialization Requirements (download PDF) Foreign language: Fourth semester proficiency in Bengali, Hindi, Malayalam, Sanskrit, Tamil, Telugu, or Urdu 24 semester hours including at least 18 hours of upper-division coursework (a list of approved courses is available in the Department of Asian Studies): 3 hours of South Asian History 3 hours of Asian Studies related to East Asia 3 hours specified Asian Studies Capstone Seminar ANS 379 15 additional hours of Asian Studies related to South Asia May include 6 hours of upper-division coursework in Bengali, Hindi, Malayalam, Sanskrit, Tamil, Telugu, or Urdu language. See the Area List page for a list of approved courses for this requirement. Transfer students should remember that 60 hours must be taken in residence at UT Austin. See the College of Liberal Arts degree plans page for all of the degrees available in Liberal Arts. Useful Links Email a College of Liberal Arts Advisor Ask Libby Liberal Arts Degree Plans Interactive Degree Audit (IDA) UTeach Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 College Administration Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies LAITS Resources for Faculty and Staff Course Descriptions General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021