Skip to main content Tulane Home SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search SCHOOL OF LIBERAL ARTS Tulane Home Primary Navigation About SLA Dean's Welcome Message Distinctions Leadership & Staff Department Chairs Program Directors Faculty History & Facts Academics Departments & Programs Undergraduate Studies Graduate Studies Summer Programs Centers & Allied Programs Research News & Events News Events Student Spotlights Faculty News Donor & Alumni Spotlights Publications Faculty and Staff Awards Alumni Alumni Spotlights Alumni News Alumni Events Distinguished Alumni Award Send Us Your News Giving Funding Needs How to Give Resources For Faculty Staff Resources Quick Contacts SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Information for… Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES A Global Education Learn More Forward Thinking Research Learn More Commitment to New Orleans and the Gulf South Learn More Instruments for Change Learn More Tulane School of Liberal Arts The School of Liberal Arts at Tulane encompasses the arts, humanities, and social sciences through sixteen departments and nineteen interdisciplinary programs as well as the Carroll Gallery, Shakespeare Festival, Summer Lyric Theatre, and the Middle American Research Institute. Our small classes allow students to be active learners directly engaged with their courses. With a broad array of majors, minors, Master’s and Ph.D. programs, students can choose to specialize in a wide number of fields, developing long-standing interests or discovering new passions. Engaged in the liberal arts, students not only learn key skills of writing, analysis and communication but come to understand better both themselves and the world beyond. Read more about Tulane School of Liberal Arts Learn More Majors and Minors / Undergraduate Studies / Graduate Studies Distinctions Tulane School of Liberal Arts strives to build a global liberal arts curriculum and faculty, embraces our dual identity as research one university and liberal arts college, and forges a deeper relationship with New Orleans and the Gulf South. These pillars build upon Tulane’s distinctive academic strengths, provide leadership, and encourage students to remain in the city after graduation. Read more about Tulane School of Liberal Arts Distinctions Newsletter April 2022 Newsletter Archive Magazine Winter 2022 Publication Archive SLA News Four professors receive Tulane 2022 teaching awards School of Liberal Arts graduate finds literary voice through Tulane educational journey An American Sign Language-Interpreted Performance Newsletter: Celebrating Creativity – April Arts Spotlight More School of Liberal Arts News Academic Programs Undergraduate Programs Majors & Coordinate Majors Minors Professional Programs Summer Programs Graduate Programs Master's Degrees Doctoral Degrees MFA Degrees "4+1" MA Degrees Centers & Allied Programs Academic Centers Allied Programs Special Collections Ground-breaking Research Tulane archaeologist leads team to major Maya find A team of archaeologists co-led by Tulane University professor Marcello A. Canuto has discovered a nearly 1,500-year-old carved altar at the Classic Maya site of La Corona, located in jungle forest of the Petén in northern Guatemala. Read More about Tulane Research tulaneliberalarts Still just basking in that last Friday feeling like…💥🎓👏 Happy one week since graduating, young alums of #tulaneliberalarts! 📸: Holly Flora, Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs & Art History Professor, proceeding onto the field for the School of Liberal Arts 2022 Diploma Ceremony on Friday, May 20th. tulaneliberalarts What an incredible time we had celebrating our #tulaneliberalarts graduates yesterday. Thank you to everyone who helped us make it happen, and to the @knockazbrassband for making it even more fun! Congratulations, Class of 2022 🎓👏 …we can’t wait to see everything you do next. #tulane2022liberalarts #tulanegrads #tulanecommencement #tulane2022 tulaneliberalarts Big news and big names — who saw this morning’s press release?! At tomorrow’s School of Liberal Arts Diploma Ceremony, Dean Edwards will present our 2022 Distinguished #AlumniAward to Robert Fyvolent ('84), a film producer who won both the Oscar and the Grammy this spring for music doc Summer of Soul, which swept the awards circuit with its important and nostalgic found-footage retelling of the 1969 Harlem Cultural Festival. This award recognizes notable alumni achievement or career distinction in the liberal arts and/or in promoting positive social change, as well as support for the values of a #liberalarts education and the mission of our school. A political science graduate, Fyvolent credits his time living in #NewOrleans for his love of music—especially the music featured in the film—and his coursework at #Tulane for his ability to think critically and apply his skills across professional disciplines. 📸: Fyvolent & Edwards outside Newcomb Hall 📸: Rehearsal for Commencement 2022! #tulaneliberalarts #creativeindustries #summerofsoul tulaneliberalarts Our 2022 Summer Programs are LIVE! In our #CreativeIndustries courses, students can earn 3 credits in just 10 days while studying innovative #marketing, branding, legal and data-driven strategies, and building skills in creative #entrepreneurship. The last day to register for Maymester is this Monday, May 17th! Enroll today—link in bio. #summerliberalarts #liberalarts #tulaneliberalarts #summerprogram tulaneliberalarts Happy final #JazzFest Friday everyone! 🎺🎶🎷 Who’s heading to the fairgrounds this weekend? Matt Sakakeeny, Tulane School of Liberal Arts associate professor of music, is a conservatory-trained musician with a PhD in Ethnomusicology who studies the intersections of music, race and power. The return of festival season, our city’s soundtrack, and specifically New Orleans #brassbands provides an opportunity to reflect on its impact on local culture and what makes our music so unique. “There’s actually a phrase that people use to describe the uniqueness, which is called the New Orleans style. [The musicians] are playing a song, it has a melody, but they’re open within the kind of structures of that melody to add in something different every time. That’s what makes New Orleans really unique.” In honor of this quintessential #NOLA—one we’ve waited so long to get back—check out Matt’s full interview and recent conversation with @tulaneu’s On Good Authority podcast. #NewOrleansBrassBands #NewOrleansMusic #NewOrleansLife Ethnomusicology #TulaneLiberalArts tulaneliberalarts Congratulations to Amalia Leguizamón, Associate Professor of #Sociology, on winning the 2022 GDS #BookAward! Her book "Seeds of Power" explores environmental injustice in Argentina through an agricultural lens, helping us better understand the narratives of development and prosperity and those who are left behind. Link in bio! #liberalarts #tulaneliberalarts #internationalstudies #latinamericanstudies #seedsofpower tulaneliberalarts Excited to share that two School of #LiberalArts faculty, Associate Professors Laura McKinney and Michelle Foa, have been awarded an @nehgov grant to develop a new Environmental Humanities minor! Courses will involve experiential learning and encouraging partnerships within the communities of #Tulane, #NewOrleans, and the #GulfCoast as a whole. Their curriculum plan also includes studies across a wide range of disciplines—focusing on history, sustainability, and justice in a time of serious environmental challenges. 🌊 Link in bio to read more! #tulaneliberalarts #environmentalstudies #NEH #humanities #grant tulaneliberalarts Just some smile-inducing shots from Friday’s reception for our School of Liberal Arts Class of 2020 alumni, who came back to campus 2 years late(r) for their @TulaneU Unified Commencement Ceremony. It was incredible to have everyone back for the celebration they so deserved—thank you to the @kinfolkbrassband2022 for making it so memorable, and so quintessentially #NewOrleans! #classof2020 #tulaneuniversity #alum #tulaneliberalarts #tulane #libartsgrads #studentsuccess #youngalumni #tulanealum tulaneliberalarts Just some smile-inducing shots from Friday’s reception for our School of Liberal Arts Class of 2020 alumni, who came back to campus 2 years late(r) for their @TulaneU Unified Commencement Ceremony. It was incredible to have everyone back for the celebration they so deserved—thank you to the @kinfolkbrassband2022 for making it so memorable, and so quintessentially #NewOrleans! #classof2020 #tulaneuniversity #alum #tulaneliberalarts #tulane #libartsgrads #studentsuccess #youngalumni #tulanealum tulaneliberalarts Just some smile-inducing shots from Friday’s reception for our School of Liberal Arts Class of 2020 alumni, who came back to campus 2 years late(r) for their @TulaneU Unified Commencement Ceremony. It was incredible to have everyone back for the celebration they so deserved—thank you to the @kinfolkbrassband2022 for making it so memorable, and so quintessentially #NewOrleans! #classof2020 #tulaneuniversity #alum #tulaneliberalarts #tulane #libartsgrads #studentsuccess #youngalumni #tulanealum tulaneliberalarts #AprilArts Newsletter: Thank you to first-year student Brendan Mullenix of the Design #MFA Program for inquiring as to what steps our Department of Theatre and Dance was taking to make shows more accessible last fall, and a major applause to Jenny Mercein, Denise Crochet and Ryder Thornton for collaborating to produce an action-oriented response. Assistant Professor Mercein and Professor of Practice Thornton (both of @tulaneonstage) worked with Linguistics Visiting Assistant Professor of #AmericanSignLanguage Crochet and Mullenix to incorporate #ASL into the Spring 2022 mainstage production of #Antigone. Thank you to Dr. Anneliese Singh and the Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion for the support. As Crochet stated, “Theatre and #thearts hold value for all, and it is vital to afford the Deaf and Hard of Hearing community opportunities to share, learn, and enjoy theatrical experiences.” Added Thornton, “The entire team of ASL interpreters brought a new level of theatricality to the world of the play, and more importantly, they played an important role in signaling to the cast and the audience our department’s commitment to fostering greater accessibility in our productions.” Full article available via April Arts link in bio! 📸: Professor Crochet depicting King Creon 📸: Student/interns Carson Koffler and Eliana Kaufman signing dialogue in pairs tulaneliberalarts #AprilArts Newsletter: An archival photograph of Lib Delery teaching golf during a physical education class at @TulaneU in the 1950s. This issue celebrated Elizabeth “Lib” Brewer Delery, who was the first Chairperson of what is now @tulanedance, as well as #Tulane's former Director of Women’s Athletics and Chair of the Department of Physical Education. A mainstay of Lib’s legacy on our campus was her championing of curriculum that allowed students to minor—and later major—in #dance, reflected in the annual Elizabeth "Lib" Delery Award for Excellence in Dance. Thank you, Lib, for sharing your trailblazing accomplishments and lifelong passions with us. Please visit the April Arts link in our bio for how to give in her name, to either the Newcomb Dance Program or the Newcomb Dance Company of the Department of Theatre and Dance. Link to Tulane Home Page School of Liberal Arts Tulane University 102 Newcomb Hall New Orleans, Louisiana 70118 504-865-5225 libarts@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Support MARI Social Media facebook twitter instagram School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources Contact Us Footer - Social Media Shakespeare Festival at Tulane School of Liberal Arts School of Liberal Arts Home e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources NOCGS Social Media facebook twitter instagram Follow Summer Lyric Theatre facebook twitter instagram youtube Connect With the School of Liberal Arts facebook twitter instagram Tulane Home Employee Resources Jobs at Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Copyright / Privacy TulaneU TulaneNews TulaneU Tulane TulaneUniversity TulaneU TulaneUniversity © 2022 Tulane University