skip to content Students Academics News + Events Research Giving Menu x Undergraduate Students Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Orientation Internal Transfer Majors & Minors Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Courses Languages Career Services Apply x Current Undergraduates Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Study Abroad Scholarships & Awards Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Overview Orientation Internal Transfer Degree Options Graduate Students Graduate Studies Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Academic Areas Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Administration Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS About Message from the Dean College Leadership Mission Statement History of the College Contact Connect Ways of Giving Get Involved Annual Impact Report Dean’s Circle Pro Bene Meritis Award Questions? Current student with a question? Prospective student with a question? Parent with a question? Questions about this website? Search the College of Liberal Arts Life & Letters Magazine College Viewbook Events News Courses Languages Career Services Apply Give Resources for Faculty and Staff Education Abroad Edit Headline Text Edit Subhead Text The College of Liberal Arts offers a diverse portfolio of academic programs and international opportunities around the globe. These programs enrich the academic, professional, and personal lives of students and are a key component in a liberal arts education. Along with the Liberal Arts programs highlighted here, UT Austin Education Abroad maintains tools for finding programs that are available to Liberal Arts majors, including an Education Abroad 101 information session, a program database, and a calendar of events. Getting Started If you know you're interested in studying abroad, but aren't sure where to start, please see the steps below to get you pointed in the right direction. Step 1 Visit the Get Started page on the Education Abroad website Watch the Explore Education Abroad 101 information session Utilize the Education Abroad Offices’ Find a Program database Check out the My Credit Abroad database for course options abroad Look into programs offered through Liberal Arts Step 2 Investigate the many Liberal Arts Scholarships that are offered. Look through the Education Abroad Scholarship page for even more options. Step 3 Attend a virtual Education Abroad Live Q&A to speak with a program coordinator. Meet with your academic advisor to discuss degree planning. Visit the Apply and Go page once you’re ready to apply. Upcoming Deadlines Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Tab 4 Tab 5 October 1 - November 15 (deadlines vary): Spring Semester Programs Application Deadline November 15: Maymester Application Deadline February 1, 2022: Summer 2022 Faculty-Led Program Application Deadline February 15 - March 30: Summer 2022 Affiliated/Exchange Program Application Deadline February 15 - March 30: Fall or Academic Year Application Deadline Tab 4. Add body text in this space. Tab 5. Add body text in this space. Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Course Descriptions Academic Calendar Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Resources for Faculty and Staff Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 The College of Liberal Arts The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr. Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021