skip to content Students Academics News + Events Research Giving Menu x Undergraduate Students Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Orientation Internal Transfer Majors & Minors Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Courses Languages Career Services Apply x Current Undergraduates Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Study Abroad Scholarships & Awards Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Overview Orientation Internal Transfer Degree Options Graduate Students Graduate Studies Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Academic Areas Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Administration Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS About Message from the Dean College Leadership Mission Statement History of the College Contact Connect Ways of Giving Get Involved Annual Impact Report Dean’s Circle Pro Bene Meritis Award Questions? Current student with a question? Prospective student with a question? Parent with a question? Questions about this website? Search the College of Liberal Arts Life & Letters Magazine College Viewbook Events News Courses Languages Career Services Apply Give Resources for Faculty and Staff Mission Statement Edit Headline Text Edit Subhead Text In the College of Liberal Arts, we teach students to think critically and independently so they can thrive in the world beyond campus. We are dedicated to promoting cutting-edge research that helps people better understand human history, society, and culture. By providing students a strong foundation in the humanities and social sciences, we serve as a model in education and intellectual excellence for other universities. Our distinguished faculty is committed to teaching and to developing the best academic programs available in their fields. And our graduates must be able to read analytically, write cogently, and speak persuasively. We do this in an atmosphere that fosters fellowship and understanding among students, faculty, and the administration. With a large and diverse student body, we recognize the importance of respecting students as individuals with unique needs, goals, and challenges. In all courses and programs, we emphasize ethics, integrity, citizenship, and awareness of global issues. Students learn to assume personal responsibility for their actions, while they develop self-reliance and a passion for life-long learning. The College guides the lives of its students by fostering creativity, leadership, and service to community and nation. When our students graduate, they will have a skill set that includes: the ability to reason effectively from hypotheses to conclusions and to logically analyze the ideas of others, a critical appreciation for the social framework in which we live and the ways it has evolved through time, experience thinking about moral and ethical problems, understanding various facets of science and the ways in which knowledge of the universe is gained and applied, understanding various aspects of mathematics and the application of quantitative skills to problem solving, proficiency in a second language, an appreciation for literature and the arts, sophistication in using information technology. Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Course Descriptions Academic Calendar Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Resources for Faculty and Staff Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 The College of Liberal Arts The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr. Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021