skip to content Menu x BA in French French at UT UT tower OVERVIEW: French is taught by an outstanding instructional corps, many of whom have been recognized for their teaching excellence by University and College awards. We offer undergraduate courses at all levels, from beginning to advanced. Our wide variety of upper-division courses deal with French culture, literature, cinema, history, gender studies, politics, language and linguistics. Courses with the FR prefix are taught in French; those with the FC prefix are taught in English, with no knowledge of French necessary. Course lists are available here. FOREIGN LANGUAGE REQUIREMENT: The Liberal Arts foreign language requirement of intermediate proficiency can be fulfilled with twelve hours of beginning French. Students may choose the in-class or hybrid sequence FR 601C & FR 611C or the Online French sequence FR 406, FR 407 & FR 412K. Learn more about the Liberal Arts foreign language Requirements here. UPPER-DIVISION COURSEWORK: The requirement for enrolling in upper-division classes is credit with a grade of C or above for FR 601C & FR 611C (or FR 406, FR 407 & FR 412K), plus FR 317C. STUDY ABROAD: Many undergraduate students choose to study in France. Our Lyon Summer Program, led by UT instructors, includes a week of orientation in Paris and six weeks of coursework in Lyon, with excursions in surrounding areas. Students with credit for FR 611C or FR 412K are eligible to apply for the program. Scholarships for the Lyon Summer Program and other study abroad opportunities are available. Learn more about the Lyon Summer Program here. INTERNSHIPS: French majors are encouraged to apply for the Internships in Francophone Europe (IFE) program, which offers once-in-a-lifetime opportunities to work and study for one semester in Paris, Strasbourg, or Brussels. Nine hours of course credit can be obtained through participation in IFE. The Department of French and Italian offers competitive scholarships that cover all costs of the program. HONORS IN FRENCH: French majors may apply for admission to the Honors Program during the semester in which they will complete 60 hours, including 12 hours of upper-division French, including at least one FR course at the FR 330 level or higher. A UT GPA of at least 3.0 and a grade point average in upper-division French courses of at least 3.5 are required. The FR 379H honors course meets the requirements for the Independent Inquiry flag. While enrolled in FR 379H, the Honors Student will do independent research with the supervising professor and will prepare an Honors thesis of approximately 20-25 pages in French. For more information, contact Marc Bizer, Departmental Honors Director in French. French at UT OVERVIEW: French is taught by an outstanding instructional corps, many of whom have been recognized for their teaching excellence by University and College awards. We offer undergraduate courses at all levels, from beginning to advanced. Our wide variety of upper-division courses deal with French culture, literature, cinema, history, gender studies, politics, language and linguistics. Courses with the FR prefix are taught in French; those with the FC prefix are taught in English, with no knowledge of French necessary. Course lists are available here. FOREIGN LANGUAGE REQUIREMENT: The Liberal Arts foreign language requirement of intermediate proficiency can be fulfilled with twelve hours of beginning French. Students may choose the in-class or hybrid sequence FR 601C & FR 611C or the Online French sequence FR 406, FR 407 & FR 412K. Learn more about the Liberal Arts foreign language Requirements here. UPPER-DIVISION COURSEWORK: The requirement for enrolling in upper-division classes is credit with a grade of C or above for FR 601C & FR 611C (or FR 406, FR 407 & FR 412K), plus FR 317C. STUDY ABROAD: Many undergraduate students choose to study in France. Our Lyon Summer Program, led by UT instructors, includes a week of orientation in Paris and six weeks of coursework in Lyon, with excursions in surrounding areas. Students with credit for FR 611C or FR 412K are eligible to apply for the program. Scholarships for the Lyon Summer Program and other study abroad opportunities are available. Learn more about the Lyon Summer Program here. INTERNSHIPS: French majors are encouraged to apply for the Internships in Francophone Europe (IFE) program, which offers once-in-a-lifetime opportunities to work and study for one semester in Paris, Strasbourg, or Brussels. Nine hours of course credit can be obtained through participation in IFE. The Department of French and Italian offers competitive scholarships that cover all costs of the program. HONORS IN FRENCH: French majors may apply for admission to the Honors Program during the semester in which they will complete 60 hours, including 12 hours of upper-division French, including at least one FR course at the FR 330 level or higher. A UT GPA of at least 3.0 and a grade point average in upper-division French courses of at least 3.5 are required. The FR 379H honors course meets the requirements for the Independent Inquiry flag. While enrolled in FR 379H, the Honors Student will do independent research with the supervising professor and will prepare an Honors thesis of approximately 20-25 pages in French. For more information, contact Marc Bizer, Departmental Honors Director in French. Learn French Online 🇫🇷💻 Learn French online, find out more: Undergraduate Academic Advisor frit-advising@utexas.edu BEN 2.108 (Office open for brief questions only, T-Th 9am-12pm & 1pm-3pm) Advising Sessions: Appointment Request Virtual Walk-In Availability (no appointment necessary)Learn More Undergraduate Faculty Advisor Undergraduate French Faculty Advisor Heather Pelletier HRH 3.112A (please email for availability) hpelletier@austin.utexas.eduLearn More This is a card. Undergraduate Advising Information Registration Information Sheet (RIS) Current Catalog Information (catalog.utexas.edu) Current Course Schedule Information (registrar.utexas.edu) Lyon Summer ProgramLearn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More This is a card. It has an easy to override visual style, and is appropriately subdued.Learn More Course Schedule Lyon Summer Program Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 College Administration Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies LAITS Resources for Faculty and Staff Course Descriptions General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021