skip to content Students Academics News + Events Research Giving Menu x Undergraduate Students Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Orientation Internal Transfer Majors & Minors Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Courses Languages Career Services Apply x Current Undergraduates Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Study Abroad Scholarships & Awards Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Overview Orientation Internal Transfer Degree Options Graduate Students Graduate Studies Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Academic Areas Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Administration Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS About Message from the Dean College Leadership Mission Statement History of the College Contact Connect Ways of Giving Get Involved Annual Impact Report Dean’s Circle Pro Bene Meritis Award Questions? Current student with a question? Prospective student with a question? Parent with a question? Questions about this website? Search the College of Liberal Arts Life & Letters Magazine College Viewbook Events News Courses Languages Career Services Apply Give Resources for Faculty and Staff Research & Graduate Studies A Message from Associate Dean Robert Crosnoe Associate Dean Robert Crosnoe The education and training of graduate students and the pursuit of impactful knowledge through research and scholarship are two inter-related foundations of the College of Liberal Arts that are integral to its ability to achieve its educational mission and better serve the public. The Office of Research and Graduate Studies actively supports both endeavors through a variety of funding mechanisms, administrative support, policy setting and management, and many other activities and programs. Recognizing that the success of graduate students in their studies and the success of faculty, graduate students, and undergraduate students in their research and scholarship are central to the success of the College and University, the Office of Research and Graduate Studies is here to help the people of COLA to change the world. Graduate Studies Across 34 programs and areas of study, graduate students pursuing Ph.D. and M.A. degrees in the College of Liberal Arts enjoy high-quality instruction, cutting-edge research training, and professional socialization that set up a diverse array of career pathways...(continue reading)Learn More Research High-quality research and scholarship on important issues are central to the mission of the College of Liberal Arts and its service to Texas, the U.S., and the world at large...(continue reading) Learn More Liberal Arts Grants Services Grants Services supports faculty, graduate students, and staff in the College of Liberal Arts. We encourage a culture of grant seeking in the Humanities and Social Sciences and aim to: Help grant-seekers find funding opportunities through the COLA Grants Digest. Disseminate funding opportunities announced by the Office of the Vice President of Research to faculty. Ensure the research community stays informed of updates and changes to University, city, state, and federal policies and procedures. Assist researchers with proposal development including budget and budget justification preparation and inform individuals on the fellowship and grant submission process. Facilitate faculty and graduate student grant submissions through the Office of Sponsored Projects (OSP) and the Office of Corporate Relations and Foundation Relations (OCRFR). Perform outreach efforts through workshops and in-person meetings in order to educate the community on resources and tools offered in the College of Liberal Arts and at The University of Texas. Provide guidance to grant awardees and their departments on post-award matters. Contact Us We are here to support you throughout the process of submitting a grant proposal at UT Austin, but we often receive a high volume of requests. To ensure that your proposal gets the full attention it deserves, we ask that you adhere to our Grants Submission Timeline when contacting our office (laresearch@austin.utexas.edu). Brook Davis, Senior Grants Administrator Email: davis@austin.utexas.edu, Tel: 512-232-0760, Office: GEB 3.310 Vanessa Lopez, CRA, Senior Grants Administrator Email: volopez@austin.utexas.edu, Tel: 512-232-0716, Office: GEB 3.310 Graduate Studies The Office of Research & Graduate Studies collaborates with Liberal Arts departments, centers, institutes, and the Graduate School to support initiatives that increase graduate student success and improve students’ work environment. In addition to steering College policies, our office participates in the university-wide conversations about graduate student parental accommodations, dissertation embargo, funding, professional development, placement targets, and more. We investigate college, university, and national data on graduate education; design and offer professional development opportunities for graduate students; and work on best practices for student recruitment and support with fellowships and employment in academic job titles. Policy Statements College-level policies impact students' academic progress. In establishing and revising such policies we respond to university and national conversations on graduate education and career options, helping shape these conversations. Parental Accomodation Time to Degree and Student Funding Resources Graduate Student Writing Resources Milestones for Doctoral Programs Campus Disability Resources Graduate School Climate Study Best Practices: Teaching Assistant Job Duties Accordion 3 Panel 3. Add body text in this space. Accordion 4 Panel 4. Add body text in this space. Accordion 5 Panel 5. Add body text in this space. Staff Research & Graduate Studies Org Chart Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Contact Located on the 1st and 3rd floors of the Dorothy L. Gebauer (GEB) building Office phone: 512-471-4141 Office fax: 512-471-4518 College of Liberal Arts Office of Business Affairs The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr., Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712-1257 Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Course Descriptions Academic Calendar Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Resources for Faculty and Staff Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 The College of Liberal Arts The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr. Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021