Skip to main content Tulane Home SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search SCHOOL OF LIBERAL ARTS » Newcomb Art Department Tulane Home Newcomb Art Home About Mission Arts in New Orleans Woldenberg Art Center Newsletter Archive Giving Employment Opportunities Contact Us People Faculty Administration History of Art Faculty Studio Art Faculty Grad Students Alumni History of Art Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Studio Art Disciplines Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Studio Art Facilities News & Events Events & Exhibitions Events Archive Newcomb Art News News Archive Art History Graduate Student News Studio Art Graduate Student News Ongoing Lecture Series Resources Art Galleries Art Resources Online Freeman Auditorium Guides & Forms New Orleans Collections Policies & Procedures Tulane Collections Visual Media Woodward Way SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Information for… Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Newcomb Art Department Home / People / Faculty / Mia Bagneris Mia L. Bagneris Associate Professor, African Diaspora Art & Studies of Race in Western Art Director of the Africana Studies Program mbagneri@tulane.edu 504-314- 2415 307 Woldenberg Art Center Education Ph.D. Harvard University, African American Studies (Primary Field: History of Art and Visual Culture) Biography Mia L. Bagneris teaches African diaspora art history and studies of race in Western Art. Concentrating primarily on eighteenth- and nineteenth-century British and American art and visual culture, much of her scholarship explores the representation of race in the Anglo-American world and the place of images in the histories of slavery, colonialism, empire, and the construction of national identities. Attendant to these concerns, she has focused particularly on depictions of mixed-race or ambiguously raced bodies that trouble, transgress, and potentially disrupt constructed racial orders by exposing their artificial and often arbitrary foundations. Her recently published monograph, Colouring the Caribbean: Race and the art of Agostino Brunias,offers the first comprehensive study of the Brunias’s pictures, made for British plantocrats and colonial elites, which feature Caribbeans of color—so called ‘Red’ and ‘Black’ Carib Indians, dark-skinned Africans and Afro-Creoles, and people of mixed race. The book explores the role of the artist’s paintings in reifying inchoate notions of race and how they both reflect and refract ideas about race commonly held by eighteenth-century Britons. Dr. Bagneris’s current book project, Imagining the Oriental South: The Enslaved Mixed-Race Beauty in British Art and Culture, c. 1865-1880,works to understand Britons’ pronounced and continued fascination with the enslaved, mixed-race beauty in art and literature even and especially after the abolition of slavery in the United States made the potential political suasion of such works moot. As part of this investigation, the project explores marked visual and rhetorical echoes between representations of the so-called “tragic mulatto/quadroon/octoroon” and concurrent expressions of Orientalism in Western visual culture. Against the upright and respectable image of Victorian England, the South—and especially Catholic Louisiana—could be imagined as a place of luxury, debauchery, and desire, a perfect echo to the Orient within the British popular imagination and one made stronger by the association of both regions with the traffic in pretty women as sex slaves. With co-author Dr. Anna Arabindan-Kesson, Dr. Bagneris is also at work on Beyond Recovery: Reframing the Dialogues of Early African Diaspora Art & Visual Culture, c. 1700- 1900, a project for which she and Dr. Arabindan-Kesson were awarded a 2017 ACLS Collaborative Research Fellowship. Dr. Bagneris’s research has also been supported by grants and fellowships from a number of other institutions including the Yale Center for British Art, Harvard University’s W.E.B. DuBois Institute (now the Hutchins Center), the New Orleans Center for the Gulf South, and the Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art. Selected Publications "Miscegenation in Marble: John Bell's Octoroon". The Art Bulletin. Vol. 102, No. 2, 2020 pp. 64-90. https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/00043079.2020.1676133 Colouring the Caribbean: Race and the art of Agostino Brunias (Manchester University Press, 2017) http://www.manchesteruniversitypress.co.uk/9781526120458/ “The Great Colonial Minstrel Show: Reconsidering Africa in the Art of Palmer Hayden,” Nka: Journal of Contemporary African Art, November 2017, pp. 14-29. “Loner in the Dark: The Singular Vision of Norman Lewis and the Evidence of Things Unseen,” in Norman Kleeblatt and Stephen Brown (eds.), From the Margins: Lee Krasner and Norman Lewis, 1945-1952, (New Haven: Yale University Press, 2014), pp. 78-91. “Reimagining Race, Class, and Identity in the New World,” in Richard Aste (ed.), Behind Closed Doors: Art in the Spanish American Home, 1492-1898 (Brooklyn: Brooklyn Museum: 2013), pp 161-208. Courses Introduction to African American Art History c.1700-1945 African Diaspora Art and Visual Culture, c. 1925-Present Race and the Art of Empire Interracial Themes in Western Art from the Queen of Sheba to Barack Obama Race and National Mythologies in American Art and Visual Culture Contested Visions: Race, Rebellion, Reconstruction, Reunion, Romanticization, Revision and other Narratives Surrounding the Civil War in American Art & Visual Culture Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb Art Department School of Liberal Arts Tulane University 202 Woldenberg Art Center 6823 St. Charles Ave. New Orleans, Louisiana 70118 504-865-5327 artdept@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Support MARI Social Media facebook twitter instagram School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources Contact Us Shakespeare Festival at Tulane School of Liberal Arts School of Liberal Arts Home e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources NOCGS Social Media facebook twitter instagram Follow Summer Lyric Theatre facebook twitter instagram youtube Connect With the School of Liberal Arts facebook twitter instagram Tulane Home Employee Resources Jobs at Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Copyright / Privacy TulaneU TulaneNews TulaneU Tulane TulaneUniversity TulaneU TulaneUniversity © 2022 Tulane University