Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Liberal Arts » School of Communication » New Media Communications Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Contact Us Faculty & Staff Directory Academic Programs Digital Communication Arts B.A. Degree Plan B.F.A. Degree Plan B.S. Degree Plan Study or Intern Abroad Hochschule der Medien HdM App Design & Development Minor HdM Print Media Technologies Program HdM Advertising & Publishing Minor HdM Business Analytics Minor HdM Journalism & Communication Management Minor HdM Media Creation & Management Minor HdM Moving Images Minor HdM Online Media Management Minor FAQs Learning Outcomes Software and Program Skills Students Scholarships New Media Communications Scholarships Careers Internships and Practicum Orange Media Network Student Employment Student Organizations Academic Advising Academic Support Forms & Info Sheets Core Courses, Minors and Double Majors Game Lab Community Alumni and Friends Calendar Library Maps Make a Gift About Contact Us Faculty & Staff Directory Academic Programs Digital Communication Arts B.A. Degree Plan B.F.A. Degree Plan B.S. Degree Plan Study or Intern Abroad Hochschule der Medien HdM App Design & Development Minor HdM Print Media Technologies Program HdM Advertising & Publishing Minor HdM Business Analytics Minor HdM Journalism & Communication Management Minor HdM Media Creation & Management Minor HdM Moving Images Minor HdM Online Media Management Minor FAQs Learning Outcomes Software and Program Skills Students Scholarships New Media Communications Scholarships Careers Internships and Practicum Orange Media Network Student Employment Student Organizations Academic Advising Academic Support Forms & Info Sheets Core Courses, Minors and Double Majors Game Lab Community Alumni and Friends You are here Home » New Media Communications Academic Programs New Media Communications The New Media Communications (NMC) Area of the School of Arts and Communication offers Bachelor of Fine Arts (BFA), Bachelor of Arts (BA), Bachelor of Science (BS), and is available 100% online through OSU Ecampus. There is also a minor in New Media Communications. Course work explores the storytelling capacity of contemporary media and technologies. When pursuing an NMC degree students acquire the skills they need to use today’s media effectively in sharing knowledge, imagination, and information. Students also learn to anticipate how future changes in the media are likely to influence their lives. In NMC courses, students explore how to make abstract concepts or hidden processes visible, how to anticipate people’s reactions to innovation, how to write professionally, how to recognize the influence of media, how to produce creative content in a variety of media formats, and much more. A New Media Communications major prepares students for a lifetime of change and involvement in the digital world. NMC courses are taught in multiple venues on campus including the Motion-Capture and Gaming labs, both currently located on the fourth floor of Strand Ag Hall. Each year numerous New Media students participate in internships with on-campus organizations and off campus with local and regional companies. Selected students participate in the National Association of Broadcasters annual convention and other regional and national organizations and events. B.F.A. Degree Plan B.A. Degree Plan B.S. Degree Plan Contact Info Email: LiberalArts@oregonstate.edu College of Liberal Arts Student Services 214 Bexell Hall 541-737-0561 Deans Office 200 Bexell Hall 541-737-4582 Corvallis, OR 97331 liberalartsosu OregonStateLiberalArts claosu CLA LinkedIn CLA TikTok Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer School of Communication E-Mail: School of Communication Contact Form Phone: 541-737-5003 Hours of Operation: 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Monday - Friday