skip to content Students Academics News + Events Research Giving Menu x Undergraduate Students Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Orientation Internal Transfer Majors & Minors Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Courses Languages Career Services Apply x Current Undergraduates Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Study Abroad Scholarships & Awards Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Overview Orientation Internal Transfer Degree Options Graduate Students Graduate Studies Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Academic Areas Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Administration Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS About Message from the Dean College Leadership Mission Statement History of the College Contact Connect Ways of Giving Get Involved Annual Impact Report Dean’s Circle Pro Bene Meritis Award Questions? Current student with a question? Prospective student with a question? Parent with a question? Questions about this website? Search the College of Liberal Arts Life & Letters Magazine College Viewbook Events News Courses Languages Career Services Apply Give Resources for Faculty and Staff LAITS Liberal Arts Instructional Technology Services (LAITS) We are dedicated to providing technology and facility support for instruction, research, and administration throughout the College of Liberal Arts, with many of our services offered to all colleges and units campus-wide. Our particular focus is our faculty, and we will strive to provide whatever they require to succeed in their teaching and research. Service Areas IT Services Development Studio Technology Integration Computer Support Classroom Support Online Course Program Student Technology Assistant Program Building and Facilities Services Director Interim Associate Dean for Instructional Technology and Facilities Brian E. Roberts, PhD Mezes 2.302C liberalartsits@la.utexas.edu 512-471-7095 Map to LAITS Location From Brazos Garage to Mezes Hall (MEZ) W on Jester Circle N on Speedway W on 21st Street NW towards MEZ Mezes Hall (MEZ) is the middle building of 3 connecting buildings (BAT-MEZ-BEN) Entering Mezes Hall (MEZ) from East entrance: You will see trees and benches outside the door. Take the elevator to level 2. Once on level 2, turn left, then left again down the hall with the vending machines. The Liberal Arts ITS office is MEZ 2.302, just past the vending machines. Entering Mezes Hall (MEZ) from West entrance: You will see the South Mall lawn. Go up ½ flight stairs to level 2. Turn right down the hall with the vending machines. The Liberal Arts ITS office is MEZ 2.302, just past the vending machines. Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Course Descriptions Academic Calendar Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Resources for Faculty and Staff Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 The College of Liberal Arts The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr. Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021