Skip to main content Tulane Home SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search SCHOOL OF LIBERAL ARTS » Newcomb Art Department Tulane Home Newcomb Art Home About Mission Arts in New Orleans Woldenberg Art Center Newsletter Archive Giving Employment Opportunities Contact Us People Faculty Administration History of Art Faculty Studio Art Faculty Grad Students Alumni History of Art Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Studio Art Disciplines Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Studio Art Facilities News & Events Events & Exhibitions Events Archive Newcomb Art News News Archive Art History Graduate Student News Studio Art Graduate Student News Ongoing Lecture Series Resources Art Galleries Art Resources Online Freeman Auditorium Guides & Forms New Orleans Collections Policies & Procedures Tulane Collections Visual Media Woodward Way SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Information for… Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Newcomb Art Department Michelle Foa awarded grant to develop environmental humanities minor Lighting for the People Mia L. Bagneris awarded Spirit of Tulane Award Line, By Aaron Collier Newcomb Art News Newcomb Art News Thursday, May 26, 2022 - 11:15 Michelle Foa awarded Weiss Presidential Fellowship During Commencement 2022, four Tulane University faculty received university-wide teaching awards – two Weiss Presidential Fellowships for Undergraduate Teaching and two President’s Awards for Excellence in Graduate and Professional Teaching. The 2022 Weiss Fellows are Michelle Foa, associate professor of art history in the Newcomb Art Department in the School of Liberal Arts and a Carnegie Professor at the Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking, and Tiffany Lin, associate professor of architecture and design program director at the School of Architecture. The recipients of 2022 President’s Awards for Excellence in Graduate and Professional Teaching are Alessandra Bazzano, associate professor at the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Carnegie Corporation of New York Professor of Social Entrepreneurship at the Phyllis M. Taylor Center for Social Innovation and Design Thinking, and director of the Tulane Center of Excellence in Maternal and Child Health, and Guadalupe García, associate professor in the Department of History at the School of Liberal Arts. Wednesday, April 20, 2022 - 11:29 Catherine Opie Tulane’s Newcomb Art Department presents 2022 Sandra Garrard Memorial lecture: Catherine Opie Catherine Opie (b. 1961, Sandusky, OH), is an artist working with photography, film, collage, and ceramics. She was a 2019 Guggenheim Fellow recipient and the Robert Mapplethorpe Resident in Photography at the American Academy in Rome for 2021. Opie’s work has been exhibited extensively throughout the United States and abroad and is held in over 50 major collections throughout the world. Her first monograph, “Catherine Opie”, was recently published by Phaidon. Opie received a B.F.A. from the San Francisco Art Institute, and an M.F.A. from the California Institute of the Arts in 1988, and lives and works in Los Angeles. She holds the Lynda and Stewart Resnick Endowed Chair in Art at UCLA where she is also Chair of the Department of Art. Thursday, April 21, 6 pm, Freeman Auditorium Monday, April 4, 2022 - 14:51 Magaret Rose Vendryes We are deeply saddened to shares news of the death of Margaret Rose Vendryes on March 25. An accomplished and admired art historian, visual artist, and curator, she received her MA in Art History from the Newcomb Art Department in 1992, after having received her BA from Amherst and before going on to receive her PhD at Princeton. In her many creative and scholarly projects we see an astonishing array of approaches to thinking about and producing art. Among these, she published a book on Richmond Barthé (Barthé: A Life in Sculpture, 2008), curated Beyond the Blues at the New Orleans Museum of Art in partnership with the Amistad Research Center in 2010, and produced paintings for her African Diva Project series. She was Professor in the Department of Performing and Fine Arts and Director of the Fine Arts Gallery at York College at the City University of New York (CUNY). She was to become Dean of the School of the Museum of Fine Arts at Tufts University in June. Our thoughts are with the many who knew and loved her. Tuesday, March 15, 2022 - 09:21 Post Baccalaureate Visiting Artist in Ceramics DEADLINE April 1st Post Baccalaureate Visiting Artist in Ceramics at Tulane A one-year long position for an emerging artist to develop their ideas and portfolio, and interact with faculty, undergraduate and graduate students in the ceramics area of the Newcomb Art Department at Tulane University. The artist will have full access to the ceramics studio and equipment to undertake their work and may utilize the stock dry clay and glaze materials and firings at no cost. They will be expected to mix their own clay bodies and load and fire their own work. The artist will also receive a stipend of $1000 per semester (total of $2000 per year) for professional development and support, paid at the beginning of each semester. Interested artists will be asked to submit a letter of intent, portfolio of work (a pdf of 10-15 images) and 3 letters of recommendation for professors or professionals who know the artist well. Applications will be reviewed and selected by ceramics area faculty. Applications and letters of recommendation should be sent to Professor Jeremy Jernegan, sisdjhj@tulane.edu and Professor of Practice William Depauw, wdepauw@tulane.edu. Thursday, March 10, 2022 - 12:44 Adapt, Reject, and Remix: Ethiopian Christian Art in the Early Modern Era Tulane's Newcomb Art Department presents the 2022 Terry K. Simmons Lecture in Art History Adapt, Reject, and Remix: Ethiopian Christian Art in the Early Modern Era Kristen Windmuller-Luna, Curator of African Art, Cleveland Museum of Art March 14, 6:00 pm, Stone Auditorium Abstract: The rulers of the Ethiopian Christian kingdom (1270–1974) and its predecessor the ˀAksumite Kingdom (ca. 1st–8th century CE) had long sought luxury goods from across Europe and Asia. Locally-made and imported art, textiles, and religious objects contributed to a cosmopolitan Ethiopian Christian visual culture well-documented in local visual and textual sources. This paper focuses on the early modern era, when a 1557–1632 European Jesuit mission introduced new Catholic art to the kingdom and trade with India grew. Contrary to earlier scholarship that minimized Ethiopian Christian art as “conservative” or “derivative,” Dr. Windmuller-Luna presents a series of case studies to show how Ethiopian artists asserted considerable agency and innovation in their use of non-local models by selectively remixing, adapting, and even rejecting foreign influences while simultaneously using historical imagery to communicate sacred and political messages. Image: Virgin and Child with Archangels and Donor Figure (ˁətege Məntəwwab), Ethiopian artist, mid-18th century, Church of Narga Śəlasse, Ethiopia, photograph Kristen Windmuller-Luna, 2015 Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb Art Department School of Liberal Arts Tulane University 202 Woldenberg Art Center 6823 St. Charles Ave. New Orleans, Louisiana 70118 504-865-5327 artdept@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Support MARI Social Media facebook twitter instagram School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources Contact Us Shakespeare Festival at Tulane School of Liberal Arts School of Liberal Arts Home e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources NOCGS Social Media facebook twitter instagram Follow Summer Lyric Theatre facebook twitter instagram youtube Connect With the School of Liberal Arts facebook twitter instagram Tulane Home Employee Resources Jobs at Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Copyright / Privacy TulaneU TulaneNews TulaneU Tulane TulaneUniversity TulaneU TulaneUniversity © 2022 Tulane University