skip to content Students Academics News + Events Research Giving Menu x Undergraduate Students Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Orientation Internal Transfer Majors & Minors Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Courses Languages Career Services Apply x Current Undergraduates Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Study Abroad Scholarships & Awards Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Overview Orientation Internal Transfer Degree Options Graduate Students Graduate Studies Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Academic Areas Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Administration Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS About Message from the Dean College Leadership Mission Statement History of the College Contact Connect Ways of Giving Get Involved Annual Impact Report Dean’s Circle Pro Bene Meritis Award Questions? Current student with a question? Prospective student with a question? Parent with a question? Questions about this website? Search the College of Liberal Arts Life & Letters Magazine College Viewbook Events News Courses Languages Career Services Apply Give Resources for Faculty and Staff Academic Affairs Edit Headline Text Edit Subhead Text Welcome to the office of Academic Affairs in the College of Liberal Arts. With over fifty departments, centers, and programs, we are the academic heart of the College. The College of Liberal Arts is a source of limitless opportunity for intellectual growth, for engaging faculty in and out of the classroom, for studying abroad, and for nearly any academic interest our students may seek to pursue. The College of Liberal Arts is home to nationally ranked programs in the social sciences and humanities, housing four Title VI National Research Centers that study particular areas of the globe. Our faculty have won some of the most prestigious awards for their research, scholarship, and teaching, and they continue to excel at all levels of academic life. Our curriculum offers a broad range of subjects to study, encompassing social and interpretive sciences, humanities, language education, and two of the most prestigious and competitive honors programs in the country. With over sixty majors and minors, our students can explore nearly every facet of the human condition and its cultural and literary expressions. About The mission of Academic Affairs is to foster and support excellence at every level of academic life in the college, including faculty recruitment and retention, curriculum management, and degree administration. The Associate Dean for Academic Affairs works with faculty committees and key staff to ensure that academic policies and requirements for Liberal Arts degrees continue to meet the College's commitment to academic and intellectual excellence. Staff Academic Affairs Org Chart Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Location and Parking Located on the 3rd & 4th floors of the Dorothy L. Gebauer (GEB) building Office Phone: 512-471-4141 Office Fax: 512-471-4518 Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 College of Liberal Arts Office of Academic Affairs The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr., G6000 Austin, TX 78712-1257 Parking Paid parking in any of the university garages. Permit required for surface parking. Garage Hours of Operation Parking Maps Twitter Facebook Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Course Descriptions Academic Calendar Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Resources for Faculty and Staff Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 The College of Liberal Arts The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr. Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021