Skip to main content Tulane Home SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search SCHOOL OF LIBERAL ARTS » Department of Jewish Studies Tulane Home Jewish Studies Home About People Faculty & Staff Sizeler Professorships Academics Giving Match Challenge News & Events Contact Grant Center Faculty Resources Co-sponsorship Funding for Events Request for Departmental Funding SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Information for… Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Department of Jewish Studies Home / People / Ilana Horwitz Ilana Horwitz Assistant Professor, Department of Jewish Studies; Fields-Rayant Chair in Contemporary Jewish Life ihorwitz@tulane.edu 504-862-3073 Jewish Studies Bldg., 7031 Freret Street, Rm. 207 Biography Dr. Ilana Horwitz is a sociologist of religion and education who examines how people’s gender, ethnicity, race, social class, and religious upbringing shape their life. Dr. Horwitz is trained in both qualitative and quantitative research methods. In her forthcoming book, God, Grades, and Graduation: Religion's Surprising Impact on Academic Success, Dr. Horwitz examines the surprising ways in which a religious upbringing shapes the academic lives of teens. Prior to Tulane, Dr. Horwitz was a postdoctoral fellow at the Stanford Center on Longevity, and she earned her PhD in Sociology of Education & Jewish Studies from Stanford University. Dr. Horwitz also earned a Masters in International Education Development from Columbia University’s Teachers College, and a Bachelors in Business Administration from Emory University. She is a former Institute for Education Sciences fellow and Wexner/Davidson fellow, and worked for several years as a management consultant and program evaluator. Ilana recently served on the Board of the Consortium for Applied Studies in Jewish Education (CASJE) and is an affiliate of the Mandel Center for Studies in Jewish Education at Brandeis University. Link to Tulane Home Page Jewish Studies School of Liberal Arts Tulane University 7031 Freret St. New Orleans, Louisiana 70118 504-865-5349 jewishstudies@tulane.edu Support MARI Social Media facebook twitter instagram School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources Contact Us Shakespeare Festival at Tulane School of Liberal Arts School of Liberal Arts Home e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources NOCGS Social Media facebook twitter instagram Follow Summer Lyric Theatre facebook twitter instagram youtube Connect With the School of Liberal Arts facebook twitter instagram Tulane Home Employee Resources Jobs at Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Copyright / Privacy TulaneU TulaneNews TulaneU Tulane TulaneUniversity TulaneU TulaneUniversity © 2022 Tulane University