Skip to main content Tulane Home SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search SCHOOL OF LIBERAL ARTS » Department of Economics Tulane Home Economics Home Undergraduate Courses Major in Economics Minor Requirements MA and MBA Early Admissions Where alumni are now Undergraduate Research FAQs Internship & Career Opportunities Master of Arts Courses Admissions Ph.D. Program Courses Admissions Student Funding Requirements Guide for Current Students Current Students Where our Ph.D. alumni are now People Faculty Faculty by field Ph.D. Students Staff Research Faculty Publications Affiliated Centers Publications [RePEc] Alumni Where our undergraduate alumni are now Where our Ph.D. alumni are now News & Events Awards Conferences Seminars SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Information for… Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Department of Economics Home / People / Faculty / Nora Lustig Nora Lustig Samuel Z. Stone Professor of Latin American Economics nlustig@tulane.edu 504-862-8347 204 Tilton Memorial Hall Education Ph.D. University of California, Berkeley Biography Nora Lustig is Samuel Z. Stone Professor of Latin American Economics and the founding Director of the Commitment to Equity Institute (CEQ) at Tulane University. She is also a Nonresident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution, the Center for Global Development and the Inter-American Dialogue. Professor Lustig’s research is on economic development, inequality and social policies with emphasis on Latin America. Among her recent publications, the Commitment to Equity Handbook: Estimating the Impact of Fiscal Policy on Inequality and Poverty is a step-by-step guide to assessing the impact of taxation and social spending on inequality and poverty in developing countries. Prof. Lustig is a founding member and President Emeritus of the Latin American and Caribbean Economic Association (LACEA) and was a co-director of the World Bank’s World Development Report 2000, Attacking Poverty. She serves on the editorial board of the Journal of Economic Inequality and is a member of the Society for the Study of Economic Inequality’s Executive Council. Prof. Lustig served on the Atkinson Commission on Poverty, the High-level Group on Measuring Economic Performance and Social Progress, and the G20 Eminent Persons Group on Global Financial Governance. She received her doctorate in Economics from the University of California, Berkeley. Research Interests Development economics Inequality and poverty Nora Lustig in the News Measuring the Distributional Impact of Taxation and Public Spending: The Practice of Fiscal Incidence Analysis Coronavirus set to push 29m Latin Americans into poverty Launching of World Pandemic Research Network (WPRN) The CEQ Institute entered into a fiscal analysis partnership with the Millenium Challenge Corporation Website http://www.noralustig.org/ CV Lustig_Nov 2020.pdf Link to Tulane Home Page Economics Department School of Liberal Arts Tulane University 206 Tilton Hall 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, Louisiana 70118 504-865-5321 economic@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Support MARI Social Media facebook twitter instagram School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources Contact Us Shakespeare Festival at Tulane School of Liberal Arts School of Liberal Arts Home e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources NOCGS Social Media facebook twitter instagram Follow Summer Lyric Theatre facebook twitter instagram youtube Connect With the School of Liberal Arts facebook twitter instagram Tulane Home Employee Resources Jobs at Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Copyright / Privacy TulaneU TulaneNews TulaneU Tulane TulaneUniversity TulaneU TulaneUniversity © 2022 Tulane University