skip to content Menu x We've Redesigned! The College of Liberal Arts has launched a redesign of this site (and all of our other department, center, and unit sites). All information from the previous site is still available, but may have been moved. You can use the MENU button on the top right to find the information you are looking for and don't forget to update your bookmarks. × Texas Language Center Supporting, enhancing, and promoting the teaching of languages and cultures at The University of Texas at Austin Students Graduate Students LTC Portfolio Undergraduate Students Language Proficiency Testing FLTE Departments, Programs, Flagships, and Centers World Languages Fair Tutors and Translators Language Conversation Practice Meetings Moscow Plus / Study Abroad Language Study Tracks Advisors Language Study Tracks World Languages Fair Instructors Event Recordings Professional Development awards Online and Print Resources Accordion 4 Panel 4. Add body text in this space. Accordion 5 Panel 5. Add body text in this space. About the TLC The Texas Language Center supports, enhances, and promotes the teaching of languages and cultures at the University of Texas at Austin. The Center offers services that facilitate language teaching at all levels through faculty seminars/webinars, graduate portfolio courses, and coordination with advising staff to assist students in selecting appropriate courses. The TLC also promotes the professionalization of language teaching faculty through funded research, course development, and recognizing teaching excellence.Register for exams and workshops at TxShop News Past News Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Events Past Events Visitor Information Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Programs Arabic Flagship workshops Russian EFL for STEM instructors workshops Ukrainian EFL instructors semester Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Who We Are Contact Us Advisory Committees Give to the TLC Advisory Committees Give to the TLC Contact Us Main Office BUR 576 Address Texas Language Center University of Texas at Austin 2505 University Ave, B7800 BUR 572 Austin, Texas 78712-1085 Phone: 512-471-6574 Fax: 512-475-8866 tlc@austin.utexas.edu Social Media TLC Facebook TLC Twitter TLC Instagram Advisory Committees The LTC Advisory Committee comprises four faculty representatives from the University’s language programs. These faculty members serve for 2-year renewable terms. Program Director Dr.Thomas J. Garza Research Interests: Russian language teaching methodology/ Applied linguistics/ Contemporary Russian culture/ The Chechen wars and the media/ Post-Soviet youth culture/ Language teaching pedagogy/ Russian popular culture/ Modern Russian language/ Contemporary Russian media Steering Committee Members Dr. Olla Al-Shalchi Research Interests: Language pedagogy/ The use of technology in the classroom/ Material development, learning strategies, and the cognitive load effect on learners with varying knowledge backgrounds Dr. Nancy Guilloteau Research Interests: Online and hybrid curriculum development/ Second language pedagogy/ Teacher training and supervision, and assessment Dr. Orlando Kelm Research Interests: The teaching of foreign language for professional purposes/ Use of technology in foreign language education/ Portuguese and Spanish phonetics/ Applied linguistics Dr. David Quinto Pozos Research Interests: Developmental signed language disorders/ Constructed action/ Language contact/ Signed-spoken language interpretation Give to the TLC Thank you for considering a gift to the Texas Language Center! Giving to the TLC Investing in the Texas Language Center helps us expand our educational and scholarly mission and often carries special tax incentives for you. Your gift will provide funding for faculty research, scholarships and awards, and outreach and promotion of language learning in the community. How You Can Give You can submit your gift online through our secure online web form by following these steps: Navigate to the The Campaign for Texas page. "College of Liberal Arts" and "Texas Language Center" will be pre-filled in the form. Enter your gift amount. Select your gift type. If your gift is in honor of someone, click the Yes button and specify the person's name in the box provided. If you would prefer to mail your gift, please make your check payable to “The University of Texas at Austin” and write "Texas Language Center" in the memo section. Send it to: Stacy Clark, Chief Development Officer - Interim College of Liberal Arts The University of Texas at Austin University Development Office P.O. Box 7458 Austin, TX 78713 You may also e-mail Stacy Clark at sclark@austin.utexas.edu or call (512) 471-8861 to receive more information. Advisory Committees The LTC Advisory Committee comprises four faculty representatives from the University’s language programs. These faculty members serve for 2-year renewable terms. Program Director Dr.Thomas J. Garza Research Interests: Russian language teaching methodology/ Applied linguistics/ Contemporary Russian culture/ The Chechen wars and the media/ Post-Soviet youth culture/ Language teaching pedagogy/ Russian popular culture/ Modern Russian language/ Contemporary Russian media Steering Committee Members Dr. Olla Al-Shalchi Research Interests: Language pedagogy/ The use of technology in the classroom/ Material development, learning strategies, and the cognitive load effect on learners with varying knowledge backgrounds Dr. Nancy Guilloteau Research Interests: Online and hybrid curriculum development/ Second language pedagogy/ Teacher training and supervision, and assessment Dr. Orlando Kelm Research Interests: The teaching of foreign language for professional purposes/ Use of technology in foreign language education/ Portuguese and Spanish phonetics/ Applied linguistics Dr. David Quinto Pozos Research Interests: Developmental signed language disorders/ Constructed action/ Language contact/ Signed-spoken language interpretation Give to the TLC Thank you for considering a gift to the Texas Language Center! Giving to the TLC Investing in the Texas Language Center helps us expand our educational and scholarly mission and often carries special tax incentives for you. Your gift will provide funding for faculty research, scholarships and awards, and outreach and promotion of language learning in the community. How You Can Give You can submit your gift online through our secure online web form by following these steps: Navigate to the The Campaign for Texas page. "College of Liberal Arts" and "Texas Language Center" will be pre-filled in the form. Enter your gift amount. Select your gift type. If your gift is in honor of someone, click the Yes button and specify the person's name in the box provided. If you would prefer to mail your gift, please make your check payable to “The University of Texas at Austin” and write "Texas Language Center" in the memo section. Send it to: Stacy Clark, Chief Development Officer - Interim College of Liberal Arts The University of Texas at Austin University Development Office P.O. Box 7458 Austin, TX 78713 You may also e-mail Stacy Clark at sclark@austin.utexas.edu or call (512) 471-8861 to receive more information. Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 College Administration Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies LAITS Resources for Faculty and Staff Course Descriptions General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021