Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Liberal Arts » School of Language, Culture, and Society » World Languages and Cultures Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Us Mission Academic Programs Asian Languages and Cultures Minor Chinese French German Goethe Language Exams International Studies Italian Japanese Korean Spanish Spanish Degree Programs Spanish for Heritage Language Learners Why Study Spanish Meet the Spanish Faculty Advising Students World Languages & Cultures Advising International Opportunities Cuba Spain Organizations Placement Testing Scholarships Sally Procious Malueg Study-Abroad Scholarship Stanton Willcox Wallace French Immersion Award Walter and Rose Kraft Award The Little Gallery Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Higashidoitsu Eiga: dēfa to Eigashi Calendar Library Maps Make a Gift About Us Mission Academic Programs Asian Languages and Cultures Minor Chinese French German Goethe Language Exams International Studies Italian Japanese Korean Spanish Spanish Degree Programs Spanish for Heritage Language Learners Why Study Spanish Meet the Spanish Faculty Advising Students World Languages & Cultures Advising International Opportunities Cuba Spain Organizations Placement Testing Scholarships Sally Procious Malueg Study-Abroad Scholarship Stanton Willcox Wallace French Immersion Award Walter and Rose Kraft Award The Little Gallery Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Higashidoitsu Eiga: dēfa to Eigashi You are here Home » World Languages and Cultures » Academic Programs Spanish The Spanish program at Oregon State University provides students with the opportunity to learn about and through the cultural and linguistic diversity of the Spanish-speaking world, both locally and globally. Our classes are student-centered and proficiency-based, and they prepare students to live bilingually both in their personal and professional lives. At the heart of our program lie ACTFL’s five C’s of language learning: Communication, Cultures, Connections, Comparisons, and Communities. Our faculty come from a wide variety of backgrounds, and each one brings a unique perspective to the process of language-learning. In addition to the face-to-face and hybrid classes we offer on our Corvallis campus, students can take advantage of a wide range of offerings on our Ecampus, and they can also participate in study abroad programs in places like Mexico, Ecuador, Spain, Argentina and many others. For more information about study abroad opportunities visit the Office of Global Opportunities at Oregon State. To learn more about our programs, enroll in our classes or for information about declaring a major or minor in Spanish, please contact Freddy Leon, the Spanish advisor. Learn more about the Spanish placement examination Save Save Outcomes: Learning Outcomes for Spanish Major and Minor Course Descriptions Program Tabs Undergraduate Core Curriculum Undergraduate Degree(s) Offered: Bachelor of Arts Click to view an advising worksheet with a flow chart for completing the Spanish major. 4-year Bachelor of Arts degree map for Spanish The minimum upper-division course requirements are listed below. Additional requirements are available from departmental advisors and the departmental office. Required courses may not be taken S/U. Spanish (45) SPAN 331, SPAN 332, SPAN 333. *The Cultures of Spain and Portugal (3,3,3)8 and/or SPAN 336, SPAN 337, SPAN 338, SPAN 339. *Latin American Culture (3,3,3,3)8 SPAN 438. ^Selected Topics in Luso-Hispanic Culture (3)8 Upper-division Spanish electives, to be approved by the major advisor (24–33) Total=45 All prospective majors and minors must see a departmental advisor at least once a year. Footnotes: 8 These courses must be completed with a B average. * Bacc Core Course ^ Writing Intensive Course (WIC) Undergraduate Options B.A. in Spanish (B.A. online coming soon!) Minor is Spanish Minor Click to view an advising worksheet with a flow chart for completing the Spanish minor. Minor requirements: SPAN 211, SPAN 212, SPAN 213. Second-Year Spanish (4,4,4) SPAN 311. Advanced Spanish Grammar (3) or SPAN 314. Third-Year Spanish for Native Speakers (3) SPAN 317. Directed Reading and Writing in Spanish (3) or SPAN 318. Introduction to Spanish-Language Literature (3) or SPAN 327. Mexican-American Literature and Composition for Spanish Heritage Language Learners (3) Select 6 credits from below: SPAN 331, SPAN 332, SPAN 333. *The Cultures of Spain and Portugal (3,3) SPAN 336, SPAN 337, SPAN 338. *Latin American Culture (3,3,3) SPAN 339. Mexican Immigrant Experience in the United States (3) Upper-division Spanish electives, to be approved by the minor advisor (6) Total=30 Online Degree Description: Our B.A. in Spanish can be completed entirely on line. Check out our Ecampus Spanish B.A. page. We also offer these online microcredentials: Introductory Spanish and Intermediate Spanish. Ecampus Degree Link: Spanish Minor Spanish Degree Programs Spanish for Heritage Language Learners Why Study Spanish Meet the Spanish Faculty ‹ Korean up Spanish Degree Programs › Contact Info Email: LiberalArts@oregonstate.edu College of Liberal Arts Student Services 214 Bexell Hall 541-737-0561 Deans Office 200 Bexell Hall 541-737-4582 Corvallis, OR 97331 liberalartsosu OregonStateLiberalArts claosu CLA LinkedIn CLA TikTok Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer About Dean's Office Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty & Staff Resources Arts and Education Complex Research Events Featured Stories News Future Students Undergraduate Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Current Students Academic Advising Career Services Internships Scholarships Financial Aid Student Resources Academics Degrees and Programs Centers and Initiatives Scool of Communication School of History, Philosophy and Religion School of Language, Culture and Society School of Psychological Science School of Public Policy School of Visual, Performing and Design Arts School of Writing, Literature and Film The CLA Community CLA Events Alumni Give to CLA