skip to content Students Academics News + Events Research Giving Menu x Undergraduate Students Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Orientation Internal Transfer Majors & Minors Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Courses Languages Career Services Apply x Current Undergraduates Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Study Abroad Scholarships & Awards Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Overview Orientation Internal Transfer Degree Options Graduate Students Graduate Studies Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Academic Areas Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Administration Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS About Message from the Dean College Leadership Mission Statement History of the College Contact Connect Ways of Giving Get Involved Annual Impact Report Dean’s Circle Pro Bene Meritis Award Questions? Current student with a question? Prospective student with a question? Parent with a question? Questions about this website? Search the College of Liberal Arts Life & Letters Magazine College Viewbook Events News Courses Languages Career Services Apply Give Resources for Faculty and Staff Graduation Apply to Graduate During Final Semester You must apply for graduation in your final semester. All completed coursework must be posted to the official record at the time the graduation application is processed; if concurrently enrolled at another institution, verification of enrollment must be provided in order to apply. The graduation application is available online from the thirteenth class day to the last class day of the semester. Commencement Liberal Arts hosts commencement ceremonies in May for all students graduating during the academic year - the previous fall, the current spring, and the upcoming summer. If you wish to participate in the spring 2022 commencement ceremony, you must submit one of the following to be added to the list of commencement participants: fall 2021 graduates: sign the walk list by email spring 2022 graduates: apply to graduate summer 2022 graduates: sign the walk list with a Student Division Advisor The spring graduation application and spring walk list will be available February 3 to May 6, 2022. NOTE: Summer 2022 graduates can have no more than 15 hours of remaining future coursework in order to be eligible to sign the walk list in the spring. Deadlines The Summer 2022 application for in absentia students will be available June 2 to August 12. The Summer 2022 application for currently enrolled students will be available online June 8 to August 12. Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Course Descriptions Academic Calendar Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Resources for Faculty and Staff Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 The College of Liberal Arts The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr. Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021