Skip to main content Tulane Home SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search SCHOOL OF LIBERAL ARTS » Department of Economics Tulane Home Economics Home Undergraduate Courses Major in Economics Minor Requirements MA and MBA Early Admissions Where alumni are now Undergraduate Research FAQs Internship & Career Opportunities Master of Arts Courses Admissions Ph.D. Program Courses Admissions Student Funding Requirements Guide for Current Students Current Students Where our Ph.D. alumni are now People Faculty Faculty by field Ph.D. Students Staff Research Faculty Publications Affiliated Centers Publications [RePEc] Alumni Where our undergraduate alumni are now Where our Ph.D. alumni are now News & Events Awards Conferences Seminars SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Information for… Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Department of Economics Home / People / Faculty / Douglas N. Harris Douglas N. Harris Professor and Department Chair of Economics Schlieder Foundation Chair in Public Education dharri5@tulane.edu 504-862-8352 302 Tilton Memorial Hall Biography Douglas N. Harris is Professor and Chair of the Department of Economics, the Schlieder Foundation Chair in Public Education, Director of both the Education Research Alliance for New Orleans (ERA-New Orleans) and Director of the National Center for Research on Education Access and Choice (REACH), all at Tulane University. He is also a non-resident Senior Fellow at the Brookings Institution. He has published his work on the education of education policy in the Journal of Public Economics, Journal of Policy Analysis and Management, Economics of Education Review, and the general interest journal, Science, among many others. He is author of the book, Charter School City: What the End of Traditional Public Schools in New Orleans Means for American Education (University of Chicago Press, 2020). His first book, Value-Added Measures in Education (Harvard Education Press, 2011), was nominated for the national Grawemeyer prize in education. With nearly 100 journal articles and other publications, and $28 million in research grants, his research also has a practical impact on a wide variety of K-12 and higher education policy issues. He has advised governors in six states, testified in the U.S. Senate, and advised the U.S. Department of Education and Obama White House on multiple education policies. His work is also widely cited in national media, including the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Washington Post, CNN, and NPR. Research fields Economics of education Appointments Professor of Economics Chair, Department of Economics Schlieder Foundation Chair in Public Education Director, Education Research Alliance for New Orleans Director, National Center for Research on Education Access and Choice (REACH) Non-Resident Senior Fellow, Brookings Institution Books Charter School City: What the End of Traditional Public Schools in New Orleans Means for American Education. 2020. University of Chicago Press. Value-Added Measures in Education. 2011. Harvard Education Press. Nominated for the National Grawemeyer Award in Education. Research Interests The Market for Schooling: Choice, Charter Schools, and Vouchers Teacher Labor Markets, Productivity Measurement, and Incentive Design Test-Based Accountability Financial Aid and Other Student Incentives for College Entry and Completion Research Methods: Cost-Effectiveness Analysis, Experimental and Quasi-Experimental Methods Douglas N. Harris in the News CBS News, Studying the Impact of the Coronavirus on Schools Bloomberg News, The Struggles of Homeschooling in the World’s Tiniest Apartments The National Center for Research on Education Access and Choice gets federal grant to study schools’ response to COVID-19 nationwide How distance learning is affecting parents and teachers The Silicon Valley of School Reform Website https://www.douglasnharris.com/ CV Harris CV extended 14.pdf Link to Tulane Home Page Economics Department School of Liberal Arts Tulane University 206 Tilton Hall 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, Louisiana 70118 504-865-5321 economic@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Support MARI Social Media facebook twitter instagram School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources Contact Us Shakespeare Festival at Tulane School of Liberal Arts School of Liberal Arts Home e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources NOCGS Social Media facebook twitter instagram Follow Summer Lyric Theatre facebook twitter instagram youtube Connect With the School of Liberal Arts facebook twitter instagram Tulane Home Employee Resources Jobs at Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Copyright / Privacy TulaneU TulaneNews TulaneU Tulane TulaneUniversity TulaneU TulaneUniversity © 2022 Tulane University