Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Liberal Arts » School of Visual, Performing and Design Arts » Art and Art History Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Faculty & Staff Directory Emeritus Faculty Directory Contact Us Academic Programs Studio Art B.F.A. Studio Art: Degree Plan B.S. Studio Art: Degree Plan B.A. Studio Art: Degree Plan Photography and Digital Studio B.F.A. Photo & Digital Studio: Degree Plan B.A. Photo and Digital Studio: Degree Plan B.S. Photo and Digital Studio: Degree Plan Art History B.A. Art History: Degree Plan Core Studio Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Students Academic Advising Career Services Art Scholarships Scholarship application preparation tips Model for the Department Student Clubs Networking Community Alumni and Friends Norma Seibert Printmaking Patrons Norma Seibert Printmaking Past Contributors Fairbanks Galleries Fairbanks Gallery of Art 2020 BFA Graduate Exhibition 2021 BFA Graduate Exhibition 2022 BFA Graduate Exhibition Student Gallery Visiting Artists & Scholars Community Visual Arts Resources Arts and Education Complex Calendar Library Maps Make a Gift About Faculty & Staff Directory Emeritus Faculty Directory Contact Us Academic Programs Studio Art B.F.A. Studio Art: Degree Plan B.S. Studio Art: Degree Plan B.A. Studio Art: Degree Plan Photography and Digital Studio B.F.A. Photo & Digital Studio: Degree Plan B.A. Photo and Digital Studio: Degree Plan B.S. Photo and Digital Studio: Degree Plan Art History B.A. Art History: Degree Plan Core Studio Learning Outcomes Experiential Learning Students Academic Advising Career Services Art Scholarships Scholarship application preparation tips Model for the Department Student Clubs Networking Community Alumni and Friends Norma Seibert Printmaking Patrons Norma Seibert Printmaking Past Contributors Fairbanks Galleries Fairbanks Gallery of Art 2020 BFA Graduate Exhibition 2021 BFA Graduate Exhibition 2022 BFA Graduate Exhibition Student Gallery Visiting Artists & Scholars Community Visual Arts Resources Arts and Education Complex ART AND ART HISTORY Fairbanks Galleries Visiting Artists and Scholars JumpstART Contact Academic Programs Studio Art The studio art program enables students to gain a deeper understanding of their own ideas and how they relate to larger historical contexts. Photography & Digital Studio With a focus on developing individual expression, the photographic program at Oregon State University embraces a forward-thinking and collaborative approach to photography. Art History The art history program offers a comprehensive overview of the history of art, with special emphasis on contemporary and Asian art. Core Studio Core Studio is the common entry for majors in the departments of Art and Art History and Graphic Design at Oregon State University. Faculty Focus Anna Fidler: A Practice of Passion They say that practice makes perfect, and while nobody is perfect, being passionate about and dedicated to her daily art practice probably makes OSU Art Instructor Anna Fidler a better artist and a better teacher. As a single Mom, a university instructor and a successful working artist with an in-home studio not far from campus, the boundaries of Fidler’s personal and professional life may be muddled, but her quietly calm and happy demeanor gives a sense that she’s found a balance. So what’s her secret? Read More > Faculty Focus Evan Baden preaches the power of photography: Acclaimed photographer encourages students to look deeper at imagery There’s a quote in “The Things They Carried,” Tim O’Brien’s classic novel about the Vietnam War, that Evan Baden likes very much, in part because it says something important about Baden’s photography. Here’s the quote: "Fiction is the lie that helps us understand the truth." Read More > Mission The arts programs at Oregon State University provide undergraduates with the technical skill and cultural awareness essential to the careers of professional artists, scholars, teachers, and creative thinkers in all fields. Through research, our students learn about themselves and learn how to become responsible members of the larger communities to which they are connected. Coursework includes practice and discussion with faculty, peers, and guests of our exceptional Visiting Artists and Scholars program. Students are provided close mentoring from the faculty, a diverse group of award-winning artists and scholars. Yes, you can graduate in 4 years...guaranteed. And we're here to help you. Our graduates go on to successful careers in music, art, media, design and more. Your path is wide open. The College of Liberal Arts is the only college at Oregon State that guarantees you can graduate in four years. That means if you meet all of your 4-Year Guarantee obligations and still have unfulfilled requirements at the end of four years, we'll cover in-state tuition for the courses you need to graduate. ADVISING The School of Visual, Performing, and Design Arts is the academic home for students interested in the fields of Art, Graphic Design, Music, and Theatre Arts. The SVPDA advising team provides academic advising assistance that supports students’ educational and career goals. Advising is a collaborative relationship between the student and their advisor. The advisor for each area will work with students to help clarify goals and assist students in evaluating degree progress. Ultimately, students are responsible for making decisions, setting individual goals, and meeting identified requirements for their degree. Art and Art History Alumni and Friends Connect with us, make a gift, or support the work of aspiring artists. Learn More Contact Info Email: LiberalArts@oregonstate.edu College of Liberal Arts Student Services 214 Bexell Hall 541-737-0561 Deans Office 200 Bexell Hall 541-737-4582 Corvallis, OR 97331 liberalartsosu OregonStateLiberalArts claosu CLA LinkedIn CLA TikTok Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer School of Visual, Performing, and Design Arts E-Mail: SVPDA Contact Form Phone: 541-737-5003 Hours of Operation: 8 a.m. - 5 p.m. Monday - Friday