skip to content Menu x Undergraduate Studies Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Button Text Goes Here Advising Make an appointment with the WGS Academic Advisor, Jackie Salcedo by clicking here. Get to know your advisor, and let her get to know you! “I want to know what issues you care about, why you are interested in Women’s and Gender Studies, and any career aspirations or curiosities you might have. This will help me recommend different types of classes for you, and maybe even scholarship opportunities!” - Jackie Salcedo, M.Ed (pronouns: she/her/hers), Texas Exes James W. Vick Award for Academic Advising Recipient 2016. Academics The Center for Women's & Gender Studies offers a unique interdisciplinary undergraduate program in Women's and Gender Studies that includes the Bachelor of Arts degree, a Women's and Gender Studies Minor, and a transcript-recognized Certificate program in LGBTQ/Sexualities Studies. The WGS degree is a valuable major, double major, or minor and functions as an important credential in applying to graduate or professional school and in today's job market and global economy. Intersectional and Interdisciplinary The program's large and diverse faculty is drawn from the university's 18 colleges and schools. Particular strengths of the faculty include African-American studies, cultural studies, diaspora studies, feminist theories, health and social welfare, international and post-colonial feminisms, media studies, performance studies, popular culture, LGBTQ/Sexualities Studies and public policy. Career Exploration A WGS BA degree gives you many options. See our list of the Career Centers at UT Austin on this page. Many of our students go onto graduate programs, law school, medical school, or remain in the education field. Others continue their work in non-profit and advocacy organizations, or find careers in the private sector. While at UT Austin, you are eligible to work with Liberal Arts Career Services and the Vick Center for Strategic Advising & Career Counseling to design your professional trajectory. Texas Recruitment + Interview Services (TRIS) is a campus-wide resource supporting companies and organizations recruiting at UT by providing interview space, career center connections and one-stop recruiting access. Our employer connections benefit UT Austin students and alumni with the increased number and diversity of opportunities we facilitate and make accessible via our career center partners. Community Because of the small size of our programs, our undergraduate students receive individual attention. Undergraduates are also invited to join our graduate students in all of our activities throughout the year, such as: workshops, conferences, special guest lectures, and faculty colloquiums. SAGE: The WGS Undergraduate Student Organization is a social and educational organization aiming to provide space for Women’s & Gender Studies (WGS) majors, and Queer Studies scholars, as well as allies of the feminist and LGBTQIA+ communities on UT’s campus. For more information on SAGE, click on the image above. Questions? Visit CWGS: Center for Women's and Gender Studies Burdine Hall (BUR), Suite 536 Open Monday through Friday, 8:00 am to 5:00 pm. 512-471-5765 Join the WGS Undergraduate Listserv to find out more about the undergraduate program and Center news and events. To subscribe, please visit: https://utlists.utexas.edu/sympa/subscribe/wgs-undergrads What can I do with a WGS Degree? Undergraduate Coordinator: Alma Jackie Salcedo send email Related Links: Wayfinder: Exploring the WGS major Wayfinder: LGBTQ Studies Certificate Wayfinder: WGS minors Liberal Arts Career Services What Can I Do With This WGS Major? (most recent) Career Options for Women's and Gender Studies majors (originally released 2012) Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 College Administration Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies LAITS Resources for Faculty and Staff Course Descriptions General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021