Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Affiliated Faculty Student Life Blockson Collection Next Stops Temple University College of Liberal Arts Departments and Programs News Events Sites Africology and African American Studies American Studies Anthropology Asian and Middle Eastern Languages and Studies Criminal Justice Economics English French, German, Italian and Slavic Gender, Sexuality and Women's Studies Geography and Urban Studies Global Studies Greek and Roman Classics History Intellectual Heritage Neuroscience Liberal Studies Philosophy Political Science Psychology Religion Sociology Spanish and Portuguese / Africology and African American Studies Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Blockson Collection You are here Home Blockson Collection Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Affiliated Faculty Student Life Blockson Collection Next Stops Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection Special Collections—African American Studies at Temple University Founded by Charles Blockson, the Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection at Temple is one of the most prestigious collections of African American artifacts in the U.S. The collection houses over 500,000 items relating to the global Black experience. Located in Sullivan Hall, the extensive catalog dates from 1581 to the present. African American studies students are provided with an excellent opportunity to enhance their academic research by making use of the collection. Blockson donated his collection to Temple in 1984 because of our diverse student body and our location in the heart of the African American community in North Philadelphia. The Blockson Collection includes, but is not limited to assorted correspondence of Haitian revolutionaries; first-edition works of Phyllis Wheatley and W.E.B. DuBois; narratives by Sojourner Truth and Frederick Douglass; Paul Robeson’s sheet music; and the John W. Mosley Collection, which documents African American life in and around Philadelphia. Charles L. Blockson From his early childhood in nearby Norristown, Pennsylvania, Charles L. Blockson accumulated a stellar collection of rare materials documenting the story of African Americans. The historian and scholar is the author of 13 books, including two on the Underground Railroad, on which he is an expert. One of Blockson’s proudest achievements is getting a state historical marker placed at Penn’s Landing in Philadelphia. Unveiled in August 2016, the marker recognizes Pennsylvania’s role in the slave trade. Learn More about the Blockson Collection. “My main goal in life is to build a good library of Black history—knowledge is a form of Black power and this is my part in it.” - Charles L. Blockson Location and Hours Sullivan Hall, 1st Floor 1330 Polett Walk Philadelphia, PA 19122 Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Phone: 215-204-6632 Fax: 215-204-5197 Go back to AcademicsMore in Africology and African American Studies Undergraduate Graduate Faculty Student Life Blockson Collection Next Stops Apply Visit Request More Info Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University College of Liberal Arts Africology and African American Studies 811 Gladfelter Hall 1115 Polett WalkPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA (215) 204-8491 CLA Facebook CLA Twitter CLA Instagram Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved. Apply Visit Request More Info