Skip to main content Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Fellowships People Activities Publications Resources Contact Us Temple University College of Liberal Arts Labs, Centers and Institutes News Events Sites Center for Sustainable Communities Center for Vietnamese Philosophy, Culture and Society Center for the Humanities at Temple Center for the Study of Force and Diplomacy Feinstein Center for American Jewish History Institute for Survey Research Public Policy Lab Temple University Brain Research & Imaging Center / Public Policy Lab Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Inquiry. Insight. Impact. Public Policy Lab https://events.temple.edu/department/public-policy-lab Spring 2022 Events PPL is hosting a series of conversations with experts for our Spring 2022 events series. Learn More /research/labs-centers-and-institutes/public-policy-lab/fellows-and-advisory-boa… Meet Our Fellows PPL’s faculty, research team and graduate fellows were selected from across the College of Liberal Arts. /research/labs-centers-and-institutes/public-policy-lab/fellows-and-advisory-boa… Learn More https://mailchi.mp/28955fb226b9/signup Sign Up for Our Mailing List Keep up to date with PPL news and events. Sign Up The Public Policy Lab (PPL) is an intellectual home for researchers who study public policies and the social processes relevant to their development and consequences. Housed in the College of Liberal Arts, the nonpartisan lab provides an interdisciplinary forum for discussion of contemporary policy issues, research support for faculty and student scholarship, and a mechanism to disseminate participants’ research findings. PPL’s colloquia series, conferences, fellowships and study groups bring together the varied perspectives of scholars from a range of disciplines. Through rigorous research, these scholars address critical policy challenges at the local, state and national levels. /public-policy-lab-news Program News We are daring, ambitious, creative thinkers. Simultaneously civic-minded and globally conscious, our students and faculty are engaged in the community and care about our world. Program News https://events.temple.edu/department/public-policy-lab Program Events From lectures to film screenings to networking opportunities with some of the region's biggest employers, events at the College of Liberal Arts are designed to support your life's work. Learn More Go back to ResearchMore in Public Policy Lab Fellowships People Activities Publications Resources Contact Us Search Site or Temple University Search this site Search all of Temple Search Keywords Search Temple University College of Liberal Arts Public Policy Lab 10th Floor Gladfelter Hall 1115 Polett WalkPhiladelphia, PA 19122 USA PPL@temple.edu CLA Facebook Public Policy Lab Twitter Visit Temple.edu Cherry & White Directory Maps & Directions Contact Policies Social Media TUportal TUMail Accessibility Careers at Temple Copyright 2022, Temple University. All rights reserved.