Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Liberal Arts » School of Public Policy » Economics Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search SPP Programs About Us History of the Department of Economics, 1873-1997 Economics Undergraduate Programs General Economics Option Law, Economics and Policy Option Managerial Economics Option Mathematical Economics Option Economics Minor Online Degree Graduate Programs Economics Program Learning Outcomes Undergraduate Internships Grade Requirements Courses Economics DEI Students & Advising Economics Advising Economics Undergraduate Lab/Tutoring Economics Student Groups Economics Club Events Jobs & Useful Links Awards & Scholarships American Economic Association Faculty & Staff Research SPP Research SPP Research Seminars Economics Faculty Research Alumni & Friends News Jobs Faculty and Student News Archive Calendar Library Maps Make a Gift SPP Programs About Us History of the Department of Economics, 1873-1997 Economics Undergraduate Programs General Economics Option Law, Economics and Policy Option Managerial Economics Option Mathematical Economics Option Economics Minor Online Degree Graduate Programs Economics Program Learning Outcomes Undergraduate Internships Grade Requirements Courses Economics DEI Students & Advising Economics Advising Economics Undergraduate Lab/Tutoring Economics Student Groups Economics Club Events Jobs & Useful Links Awards & Scholarships American Economic Association Faculty & Staff Research SPP Research SPP Research Seminars Economics Faculty Research Alumni & Friends News Jobs Faculty and Student News Archive Welcome to the OSU Economics Program SPP · Programs · Students & Advising · Faculty & Staff · Research · Alumni & Friends · News Our Vision: The OSU Economics Program provides high-quality undergraduate teaching in the field of economics, conducts high-quality economic research, and promotes a collegial community of faculty, staff, and students that work together to find solutions to the world’s most pressing economic challenges. Our Mission: The OSU Economics Program seeks to achieve excellence through impactful research and innovative teaching that develops today’s students into tomorrow’s leaders. The program pursues these goals through: recruiting and retaining faculty who maintain standards of excellence in the profession; meeting student needs for high-quality transformational educational experiences; supporting the research, teaching and service mission of the University. why_major_in_economics.png Click on the slide above to watch a short video on what students say about an Economics major at OSU. For more information about a career in Economics click here. About Us: Does it pay to go to college? What determines the interest rates on student loans? What causes bank failures? Does free trade between the U.S. and China benefit Americans? Why is the price of gas so high? Is current U.S. immigration policy good for the economy? If you have ever thought about any of these questions, you have thought about questions economists study and try to answer. Economists use mathematical and statistical models to study how individuals, organizations and societies make choices about how to use limited resources to meet various needs and desires. The goal is to attain higher living standards and improve social welfare. The Economics Program offers undergraduate degrees and advising in traditional economics with options in managerial economics, law, economics and policy, and mathematical economics. The Economics Program is part of the School of Public Policy and participates in the Graduate Programs in Public Policy, both the Master of Public Policy (MPP) and the Public Policy PhD. Economics training provides excellent preparation for graduate work in economics, public policy, law and business. OSU Economics graduates also use their degrees to work professionally in the public (federal, state and local government) and private (banking, consulting, retail, and corporate) sectors. We invite you to explore our web site to learn more about Economics at OSU. Hilary Boudet's video interviews for the ecampus version of her Energy and Society class The Online Master in Public Policy OSU Policy Analysis Laboratory (OPAL) Field School: Transatlantic Students Symposia Alumni Stories: Mariana Amorim Focuses on Social Change Previous story‹ Next story"› SPP Programs SPP Home Economics Political Science Sociology Public Policy Graduate Programs in Public Policy OSU Policy Analysis Laboratory (OPAL) SPP Students and Alumni University Legislative Scholars Program Highlights Contact Us 300 Bexell Hall 2251 SW Campus Way Corvallis, OR 97331-3612 Send Email Phone: 541-737-2811 Fax: 541-737-2289 Contact Info Email: LiberalArts@oregonstate.edu College of Liberal Arts Student Services 214 Bexell Hall 541-737-0561 Deans Office 200 Bexell Hall 541-737-4582 Corvallis, OR 97331 liberalartsosu OregonStateLiberalArts claosu CLA LinkedIn CLA TikTok Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer About Dean's Office Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty & Staff Resources Arts and Education Complex Research Events Featured Stories News Future Students Undergraduate Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Current Students Academic Advising Career Services Internships Scholarships Financial Aid Student Resources Academics Degrees and Programs Centers and Initiatives Scool of Communication School of History, Philosophy and Religion School of Language, Culture and Society School of Psychological Science School of Public Policy School of Visual, Performing and Design Arts School of Writing, Literature and Film The CLA Community CLA Events Alumni Give to CLA