skip to content Students Academics News + Events Research Giving Menu x Undergraduate Students Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Orientation Internal Transfer Majors & Minors Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Courses Languages Career Services Apply x Current Undergraduates Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Study Abroad Scholarships & Awards Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Overview Orientation Internal Transfer Degree Options Graduate Students Graduate Studies Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Academic Areas Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Administration Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS About Message from the Dean College Leadership Mission Statement History of the College Contact Connect Ways of Giving Get Involved Annual Impact Report Dean’s Circle Pro Bene Meritis Award Questions? Current student with a question? Prospective student with a question? Parent with a question? Questions about this website? Search the College of Liberal Arts Life & Letters Magazine College Viewbook Events News Courses Languages Career Services Apply Give Resources for Faculty and Staff Minors & Certificates Nearly all Liberal Arts majors require a minor. Regardless of your catalog, you must see your major advisor to declare a minor. Only one minor per major is permitted. For 2014-2016 and earlier catalogs, the minor requirement is satisfied with 12 hours in a single subject. These minors do not appear on transcripts. For 2016-2018 and later catalogs, the minor requirement is satisfied with an approved minor or certificate. These minors appear on transcripts and require between 15 and 21 hours of coursework. African and African Diaspora Studies Minor American Sign Language Studies Minor American Studies Minor Anthropology Minor Arabic Minor Archaeology Minor Asian American Studies Minor Asian Religions Minor Chinese Minor Classical Studies Minor Comparative Literature Minor Core Texts and Ideas Minor Cultural Anthropology Minor Cultural Expression, Human Experience, and Thought Minor Economics Minor English Minor European Studies Minor Evolutionary and Functional Anatomy Minor French Studies Minor Geography Minor German, Scandinavian, and Dutch Studies Minor Global Interreligious Dynamics Minor Government Minor Greek Minor Hebrew Minor History Minor Holocaust and Genocide Studies Minor Italian Studies Minor Jewish Studies Minor Korean Minor Language, Culture, and Communication Minor Latin Minor Law, Justice, and Society Minor Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer/Sexualities Studies Minor Medieval Studies Minor Mexican American and Latina/o Studies Minor Middle Eastern Studies Minor Military Leadership Minor Persian Minor Philosophy Minor Philosophy of Law Minor Philosophy of the Mind and Language Minor Portuguese Minor Primatology Minor Religious Studies Minor Rhetoric and Writing Minor Russian Minor Russian, East European, and Eurasian Studies Minor Slavic and Eurasian Languages Minor Social and Behavioral Sciences Minor Sociology Minor Spanish Minor Turkish Minor UTeach-Liberal Arts Minor Women's and Gender Studies Minor African and African Diaspora Studies American Studies Arabic Asian American Studies Bosnian-Croatian-Serbian Chinese Comparative Literature Cultural Geography Czech English Evolutionary and Functional Anatomy Geography Government Global Interreligious Dynamics Hebrew Jewish Studies Italian Studies Language, Culture, and Communication LBTQ/Sexualities Studies Mexican American and Latina/o Studies Persian Philosophy and Mind and Language Polish Portuguese Religious Studies Russian, East European, and Eurasian Studies Minor Turkish Women's and Gender Studies American Sign Language Anthropology Archaeology Asian Religions Classical Studies Core Texts and Ideas Economics European Studies French Studies German, Scandinavian, and Dutch Studies Greek History Holocaust and Genocide Studies Islamic Studies Korean Latin Medieval Studies Middle Eastern Studies Philosophy of Law Philosophy Primatology Rhetoric and Writing Russian Spanish Sociology Ukrainian UTeach Declaring a Minor Step 1 - Apply The required application for all 2016-2018 and later minors can be submitted online or with an academic advisor in your major. Step 2 - Approve Most minors are auto-approved; they are open to all students and will show as approved immediately after the application is submitted. Some minors are restricted, however, and must be reviewed by the offering department. Restricted minors may require a minimum GPA or an additional application. Step 3 - Pursue Meet with your major advisor to have the approved minor added to your profile and complete the process. All three steps - apply, approve, pursue - can be completed by your major advisor. Certificates The University of Texas at Austin offers undergraduate students a wide variety of transcriptable certificates. Students should discuss certificates with their academic advisor to see how it could fit in their overall academic plan. See the 2018-2020 Undergraduate Catalog for more information on transcript-recognized certificates. African Studies Core Texts and Ideas Digital Humanities History & Philosophy of Science Indigenous Studies Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer/Sexualities Studies Spanish for Medical Professions Business Spanish Creative Writing German Japanese Security Studies Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Course Descriptions Academic Calendar Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Resources for Faculty and Staff Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 The College of Liberal Arts The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr. Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021