skip to content Students Academics News + Events Research Giving Menu x Undergraduate Students Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Orientation Internal Transfer Majors & Minors Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Courses Languages Career Services Apply x Current Undergraduates Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Study Abroad Scholarships & Awards Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Overview Orientation Internal Transfer Degree Options Graduate Students Graduate Studies Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Academic Areas Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Administration Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS About Message from the Dean College Leadership Mission Statement History of the College Contact Connect Ways of Giving Get Involved Annual Impact Report Dean’s Circle Pro Bene Meritis Award Questions? Current student with a question? Prospective student with a question? Parent with a question? Questions about this website? Search the College of Liberal Arts Life & Letters Magazine College Viewbook Events News Courses Languages Career Services Apply Give Resources for Faculty and Staff Public Affairs Edit Headline Text Edit Subhead Text The public affairs team promotes the life and work of the College of Liberal Arts to the news media, alumni, general public and the university community. We also publish the college's award-winning alumni magazine, Life & Letters, which highlights the research and intellectual life of our faculty and students and the accomplishments of alumni around the world. Our office is here to help faculty, staff and students with various marketing and media relations efforts. Our services include: Media relations and news releases Strategic communications planning Feature stories (print and online) Design and branding services (print and online) Website content management Internal and external whitepapers and newsletters Event promotion assistance Op-ed writing and distribution assistance Coordination of photography, video and audio services Staff Location Located on the 4th floor of the Dorothy L. Gebauer (GEB) building College of Liberal Arts Office of Public Affairs The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr., Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712-1257 Parking Paid parking in any of the university garages. Permit required for suface parking. Garage Hours of Operation Parking Maps Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Course Descriptions Academic Calendar Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Resources for Faculty and Staff Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 The College of Liberal Arts The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr. Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021