Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Liberal Arts » School of Language, Culture, and Society » World Languages and Cultures Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Us Mission Academic Programs Asian Languages and Cultures Minor Chinese French German Goethe Language Exams International Studies Italian Japanese Korean Spanish Spanish Degree Programs Spanish for Heritage Language Learners Why Study Spanish Meet the Spanish Faculty Advising Students World Languages & Cultures Advising International Opportunities Cuba Spain Organizations Placement Testing Scholarships Sally Procious Malueg Study-Abroad Scholarship Stanton Willcox Wallace French Immersion Award Walter and Rose Kraft Award The Little Gallery Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Higashidoitsu Eiga: dēfa to Eigashi Calendar Library Maps Make a Gift About Us Mission Academic Programs Asian Languages and Cultures Minor Chinese French German Goethe Language Exams International Studies Italian Japanese Korean Spanish Spanish Degree Programs Spanish for Heritage Language Learners Why Study Spanish Meet the Spanish Faculty Advising Students World Languages & Cultures Advising International Opportunities Cuba Spain Organizations Placement Testing Scholarships Sally Procious Malueg Study-Abroad Scholarship Stanton Willcox Wallace French Immersion Award Walter and Rose Kraft Award The Little Gallery Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty & Staff Directory Higashidoitsu Eiga: dēfa to Eigashi You are here Home » World Languages and Cultures » Academic Programs German Why learn German? 46 million Americans claim German ancestry, making it the largest heritage group in the United States. 100 million EU residents speak German as their native language, making German the most widely spoken mother tongue in Europe. Another 31 percent of EU residents speak German as a second language. Germany has the third strongest economy in the world (after the U.S. and Japan). German exports constitute the largest share of total world trade (even ahead of the U.S.). Germany is the second most important import market in the world, and the third most important import partner of the United States. There are 1,200 German-owned companies in the United States, some of the largest of which are active in the state of Oregon (DaimlerChrysler, Freightliner, Wacker Chemie, Siltronic, Adidas, Reebok and SolarWorld AG). Our Mission The German program at Oregon State University delivers a globally relevant degree through personalized learning opportunities for diverse communities and various modes of delivery. We approach language as a combination of linguistic competencies, intercultural proficiency, and transcultural research with global impact. We are dedicated to international education within and beyond the borders of Oregon, and we are visionaries in the integration of German and STEM. Click here for more information. Our Vision The German program at Oregon State University strives to increase diversity of its student body and course offerings. We endeavor to create a standardized program within the framework of OSU’s strategic plan. We aim to provide a curriculum informed by the mission of our land-, sea-, space-, and sun-grant university. Click here for more information. Learning Outcomes All of our German courses and their respective learning outcomes are aligned with a CEFR proficiency level ranging from A1 to B2. German majors will achieve CEFR proficiency in speaking, listening, reading and writing at the level B2, minors at the level B1. The learning outcomes are measured either by Goethe Institute language exams, telc language exams, ACTFL test or similar exams, such as an exit exam approved and administered by German faculty at OSU. Our capstone course is GER 413, the final course in our Fourth-Year sequence. Click here for more information. The B.A. in German is also offered as an online degree. You can complete all coursework for the German major online. See an example: Ecampus video featuring our student Hope Nelson. Scholarship for graduating seniors The Walter & Rose Kraft Award (established in 2016) honors the achievements of OSU graduating seniors majoring in German. The award provides $1000 in scholarship funds. Study Abroad Scholarship available for minority student of German! Course Descriptions Program Tabs Undergraduate Core Curriculum Undergraduate Degree(s) Offered: Bachelor of Arts Click to view a guideline for completing the German major! This major also available fully online via Ecampus. GERMAN MAJOR - 36 upper division credits Required courses: 2.0 GPA required in major classes, S/U grades not accepted GER 311, GER 312, GER 313 (4,4,4). Third-Year German GER 411^, GER 412, GER 413. Fourth-Year German, ^Writing Intensive Course (WIC) Elective Courses: At least 12 credits of upper-division elective courses taught in German and/or WLC courses with topics relevant to the major Sample elective course topics: Culture in German-speaking countries German pronunciation & phonetics German language change & translation German literature German cinema Study Abroad/Internship Abroad: Degree-seeking students are eligible to participate in OSU's optional study abroad programs offered through the Office of Global Opportunities (OSU GO). The Baden-Württemberg exchange program offers a wide variety of subjects and courses for students of all majors. Credits earned through the exchange program transfer to OSU. http://ie3global.org/school/oregon-state-university/study-abroad BA Language Requirement: First two years of language (GER 111 through GER 213 either taken or tested out with at least a C-) count as the BA Requirement for Foreign Language Majors Undergraduate Options B.A. in German (available both on campus and fully online) Minor in German Minor Degree Offered Minor Click here to view a guideline for completing the German Minor. Also available fully online via Ecampus. GER 111, GER 112, GER 113. First-Year German (4,4,4) GER 211, GER 212, GER 213. Second-Year German (4,4,4) GER 311, GER 312, GER 313. Third-Year German (4,4,4) Total=36 Online Degree Ecampus Degree Link: Ecampus German Goethe Language Exams ‹ French up Goethe Language Exams › Contact Info Email: LiberalArts@oregonstate.edu College of Liberal Arts Student Services 214 Bexell Hall 541-737-0561 Deans Office 200 Bexell Hall 541-737-4582 Corvallis, OR 97331 liberalartsosu OregonStateLiberalArts claosu CLA LinkedIn CLA TikTok Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer About Dean's Office Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty & Staff Resources Arts and Education Complex Research Events Featured Stories News Future Students Undergraduate Students Transfer Students Graduate Students Current Students Academic Advising Career Services Internships Scholarships Financial Aid Student Resources Academics Degrees and Programs Centers and Initiatives Scool of Communication School of History, Philosophy and Religion School of Language, Culture and Society School of Psychological Science School of Public Policy School of Visual, Performing and Design Arts School of Writing, Literature and Film The CLA Community CLA Events Alumni Give to CLA