Skip to main content Tulane Home SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search SCHOOL OF LIBERAL ARTS » Newcomb Department of Music Tulane Home Newcomb Department of Music Home People About Facilities Libraries Support & Giving Maps & Directions Academics Undergraduate Graduate Programs Maynard Klein Award Expanded Course Descriptions Private Lesson Registration Performance Ensembles Private Lessons Auditions Summer Lyric Theatre Apply Graduate Programs Scholarships Events Thursday Night Jazz Previous Jazz at the Rat Performances Contact SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Information for… Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Newcomb Department of Music Home / People / Barry Spanier Barry Spanier Director of Bands bspanier@tulane.edu 504-865-5139 102 Dixon Hall Education Master of Arts in Individualized Study, Arts Administration/Producing (1994) New York University, Gallatin School of Individualized Study Bachelor of Music, Music Education (1980) University of Southern California, School of Music Biography Barry Spanier has directed and produced music for events on the world’S largest stages, including two Olympics and a World Exposition, plus special events, festivals, concerts, and musical theatre. The hallmark of Mr. Spanier’S career has been establishing new musical ensembles and building programs and organizations. For World Expo 88, he designed and directed a marching band program in an environment that previously had no such tradition. For the Sydney Olympics he directed 2,000 young musicians from 23 nations and blended them into a cohesive ensemble, the largest marching band in history. As leader of the New York University Orchestra Mr. Spanier revitalized the program and built it from a rudimentary 19-piece string group to an 85-piece symphony plus secondary orchestra and various chamber groups. Mr. Spanier performed as a trumpet player and percussionist with artists Don Ellis, Lalo Schiffrin and Maynard Ferguson, amongst others. He has also served as music director and conductor for dozens of musical theatre productions and recording sessions in commercial and academic settings. Career Highlights DIRECTOR of the NYU Center for Music Performance Directed the 85-piece New York University Orchestra and related ensembles. These groups presented seasonal concerts and community outreach programs such as the Young People’S Concert and performances at local area hospitals. Founded and produced the All University Artist-In-Residence Series, hosting accomplished musicians for lectures, workshops, master classes and performances, and inspiring collaborative participation amongst departments university-wide. Supervised music for major University events, such as Commencement, convocations, and festivals, and presented a weekly jazz series. ARTISTIC DIRECTOR of the Sydney 2000 Olympic Band Directed the 2000-piece marching band for the Opening Ceremony of the 2000 Summer Olympic Games in Sydney, Australia. Young musicians participated from twenty-three nations on six continents. Conducted the ensemble performance at the Opening Ceremony, consisting of a ten-minute field show followed by a 105-minute parade of athletes. EXECUTIVE PRODUCER & FOUNDER of the NYU Gallatin Arts Festival Presented 150 artists in interdisciplinary performances and exhibits of all art forms over a twelve-day period. This inaugural Festival took place in 1992, and has since become an annual event at NYU. DIRECTOR OF BANDS/HEAD OF MUSIC PRODUCTION for World Expo 88 Conceived and directed Expo City Band Program, a full-time professional sixty-six-piece Marching Band that broke into ten smaller ensembles including swing band, rock band, pep band and assorted traditional and non-traditional quintets, quartets and trios. Trained local high school marching band programs for performances at Expo 88. Scheduled World Expo 88 music performances, supervised recording sessions, provided musical ensembles to back up guest artists, and produced live music for Opening and Closing Ceremonies, presided over by Queen Elizabeth. Simultaneously founded and directed the Brisbane Bullets Big Band for the local professional basketball team. VENUE BAND COORDINATOR for the 1984 Summer Olympic Games Coordinated all live music at the twenty-four venues of the 1984 Summer Games. Also served as an instructor of the 800-piece All-American College Marching Band, featured at the Opening and Closing Ceremonies at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum. ASSOCIATE CONDUCTOR for the University of Southern California Trojan Bands Conducted and directed the various ensembles of the Trojan Band Program from 1980-85. These included the Los Angeles Lakers’ Band, collegiate athletic pep bands, and ensembles for special events. Link to Tulane Home Page Newcomb Department of Music 102 Dixon Hall School of Liberal Arts Tulane University New Orleans, Louisiana 70118-5683 Voice: (504) 865-5267 Fax: (504) 865-5270 Email: music@tulane.edu Support the Music Department Support MARI Social Media facebook twitter instagram School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources Contact Us Shakespeare Festival at Tulane School of Liberal Arts School of Liberal Arts Home e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources NOCGS Social Media facebook twitter instagram Follow Summer Lyric Theatre facebook twitter instagram youtube Connect With the School of Liberal Arts facebook twitter instagram Tulane Home Employee Resources Jobs at Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Copyright / Privacy TulaneU TulaneNews TulaneU Tulane TulaneUniversity TulaneU TulaneUniversity © 2022 Tulane University