skip to content Students Academics News + Events Research Giving Menu x Undergraduate Students Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Orientation Internal Transfer Majors & Minors Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Courses Languages Career Services Apply x Current Undergraduates Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Study Abroad Scholarships & Awards Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Overview Orientation Internal Transfer Degree Options Graduate Students Graduate Studies Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Academic Areas Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Administration Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS About Message from the Dean College Leadership Mission Statement History of the College Contact Connect Ways of Giving Get Involved Annual Impact Report Dean’s Circle Pro Bene Meritis Award Questions? Current student with a question? Prospective student with a question? Parent with a question? Questions about this website? Search the College of Liberal Arts Life & Letters Magazine College Viewbook Events News Courses Languages Career Services Apply Give Resources for Faculty and Staff Internal Transfer Internal Transfer Process Current students at the University who want to transfer to the College of Liberal Arts, or add a major in the College, will generally follow the same procedure: The student will meet with a departmental advisor or attend an information session for the major they want to change into or add. The department advisor will write a note in the student's record if they are approved to add the major. After gaining department approval, the student goes to the Dean's office in Gebauer (GEB) 2nd floor to complete the College Change Form. Restricted Majors The procedure above only applies to non-restricted majors within the College as some majors within Liberal Arts require an application process. The exceptions to the internal transfer policy above are: Economics Environmental Science BS, geography Health and Society Humanities International Relations and Global Studies Psychology Urban Studies Restrictions Students who have completed over 60 hours or 4 long semesters may NOT come into Liberal Arts as Undeclared. New students will not be allowed to transfer in during their first semester. They can “propose” a major for the following semester, however. There is no minimum GPA to transfer to the College of Liberal Arts. However, students must earn a minimum 2.0 GPA in their major and overall as part of their degree requirements for graduation. Students who transfer into the College of Liberal Arts on scholastic probation will be required to meet the College's scholastic probation policies in order to avoid dismissal. Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Course Descriptions Academic Calendar Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Resources for Faculty and Staff Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 The College of Liberal Arts The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr. Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021