Skip to main content Tulane Home SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search SCHOOL OF LIBERAL ARTS » Department of Political Science Tulane Home Political Science Home Academics Undergraduate Graduate Affiliated Programs People Faculty & Staff Graduate Students Opportunities and Careers Careers Internship Opportunities Research Opportunities News & Events Events News Newsletter Contact Catching Up with Dean Edwards SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Information for… Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Department of Political Science Home / People / Faculty & Staff / Geoff Dancy Geoff Dancy Associate Professor gdancy@tulane.edu 504-862-8309 Office Hours by Zoom Appointment only, please contact Prof. Dancy for a Zoom Link Biography Dr. Geoff Dancy is an Associate Professor in the Department of Political Science at Tulane University. He studies international human rights law, international tribunals, transitional justice, and pragmatism. His work uses evidence to demonstrate that, despite persistent criticism from left and right, human rights institutions have produced positive impacts in the world. Abroad, he closely follows events in Sri Lanka and Kenya, as well as the operations of the International Criminal Court. At home, he thinks a good deal about gun violence, mass incarceration, and other symptoms of structural violence in the state of Louisiana. He is a former director and current consultant for the Transitional Justice Research Collaborative, a group focused on collecting data and developing theory about human rights prosecutions, truth commissions, and other mechanisms of post-authoritarian or post-conflict justice. His current book project is Beyond Backlash: A Pragmatist Approach to Human Rights Law and Practice. Interests Human Rights Law and Practice, the International Criminal Court, Transitional Justice, and Pragmatism Application for Student Research Position Website www.geoffdancy.com CV 19 Dancy CV - June - Reg.pdf Courses POLI2500 - International Relations POLI4410 - International Law POLI6530 - International Human Rights POLS2010 - Scope and Methods of Political Science Link to Tulane Home Page Political Science School of Liberal Arts Tulane University 316 Norman Mayer New Orleans, Louisiana 70118 504-865-5166 polisci@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Support MARI Social Media facebook twitter instagram School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources Contact Us Shakespeare Festival at Tulane School of Liberal Arts School of Liberal Arts Home e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources NOCGS Social Media facebook twitter instagram Follow Summer Lyric Theatre facebook twitter instagram youtube Connect With the School of Liberal Arts facebook twitter instagram Tulane Home Employee Resources Jobs at Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Copyright / Privacy TulaneU TulaneNews TulaneU Tulane TulaneUniversity TulaneU TulaneUniversity © 2022 Tulane University