skip to content Students Academics News + Events Research Giving Menu x Undergraduate Students Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Orientation Internal Transfer Majors & Minors Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Courses Languages Career Services Apply x Current Undergraduates Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Study Abroad Scholarships & Awards Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Overview Orientation Internal Transfer Degree Options Graduate Students Graduate Studies Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Academic Areas Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Administration Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS About Message from the Dean College Leadership Mission Statement History of the College Contact Connect Ways of Giving Get Involved Annual Impact Report Dean’s Circle Pro Bene Meritis Award Questions? Current student with a question? Prospective student with a question? Parent with a question? Questions about this website? Search the College of Liberal Arts Life & Letters Magazine College Viewbook Events News Courses Languages Career Services Apply Give Resources for Faculty and Staff Office of Student Success Edit Headline Text Edit Subhead Text The Office of Student Success enriches the learning experience of Liberal Arts students by fostering community and developing future leaders and scholars. Academic Success Programs Foundation Scholars Program An academic transition program for highly motivated first-year students. PACE The Path to Admission through Co-Enrollment (PACE) program offers alternate entrance to The University of Texas at Austin to select students. PACE participants spend their freshman year on the Forty Acres part-time, taking one class per semester at the university while completing the majority of their coursework at nearby Austin Community College (ACC) – Rio Grande. Student Communities There will always be a need for strong, ethical leadership; it’s a quality that employers want, and our society needs. A Liberal Arts education allows students to discover their leadership talents and build skills in management, decision-making, teambuilding, and more. With over 1,000 student organizations on campus, there are endless ways to get involved with a project, initiative, subject, or interest you are passionate about. Check out HornsLink to discover all that student groups at UT Austin have to offer. Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Course Descriptions Academic Calendar Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Resources for Faculty and Staff Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 The College of Liberal Arts The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr. Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021