skip to content Students Academics News + Events Research Giving Menu x Undergraduate Students Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Orientation Internal Transfer Majors & Minors Graduate Students Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Courses Languages Career Services Apply x Current Undergraduates Find My Advisor Ask Libby FAQ Majors & Minors Study Abroad Scholarships & Awards Office of Student Success Graduation Prospective Undergraduates Overview Orientation Internal Transfer Degree Options Graduate Students Graduate Studies Prospective Graduate Students Scholarships & Awards Academic Areas Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Administration Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS About Message from the Dean College Leadership Mission Statement History of the College Contact Connect Ways of Giving Get Involved Annual Impact Report Dean’s Circle Pro Bene Meritis Award Questions? Current student with a question? Prospective student with a question? Parent with a question? Questions about this website? Search the College of Liberal Arts Life & Letters Magazine College Viewbook Events News Courses Languages Career Services Apply Give Resources for Faculty and Staff Diversity Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion committed to creating a diverse and inclusive community Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion College of Liberal Arts Statement on Diversity The College of Liberal Arts is committed to creating and maintaining a diverse and inclusive academic community in which all members are equally respected and valued. We define diversity broadly to include, but not limited to, race, ethnicity, nationality, citizenship, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation, socioeconomic background, (dis)ability, veteran status and age. We believe diversity inspires and increases excellence. Interacting and collaborating with talented people of diverse backgrounds and perspectives is fundamental to education at a public university, as it enriches the environment for learning, discovery and public service. Students learn to challenge their own ideas, to critically analyze new information, to think more creatively and become better prepared to succeed in an increasingly diverse state and country as well as in the wider global society. We believe that individuals can only achieve their full potential when they are in a supportive and welcoming environment that allows the free and civil exchange of ideas. We are therefore dedicated to providing a climate where all can prosper, realize their full potential and truly change the world. Ann Huff Stevens Dean, College of Liberal Arts Monique Payne Pikus Director of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion, College of Liberal Arts DIP Task Force Reports Read the reports and recommendations from the Diversity and Inclusion Plan (DIP) Task Force and the response from COLA leadership. Learn More COLA Staff Champion of Inclusion Award The College of Liberal Arts Staff Champion of Inclusion Award is designed to recognize the efforts of staff who strive to create and maintain an inclusive environment for the college’s faculty, staff and/or students, and wider Austin community.Learn More Juneteenth Celebration COLA is hosting their first in-person Juneteenth celebration and student showcase!Learn More Inclusion Workshops & Consultations The university offers several training workshops and seminars in a variety of topics related to diversity: disABILITY Advocate Training: The Foundation Training Dynamics of Diversity Certificate Faculty Search Committee Workshop Gender and Sexuality Center - Workshop Request Form Inclusive Classrooms Leadership Seminar Leadership and Ethics Institute Development Workshops Title IX Education and Training The College of Liberal Arts Dean’s Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion also offers diversity, inclusion and organizational climate consultations for faculty, staff and students in our college. We prioritize consultations in areas not currently offered by the university. Fill out this form to request a consultation. Request a consultation Equity Reports The College of Liberal Arts Dean’s Office regularly conducts audits to assess progress in regards to equity and inclusion. Please visit Equity Reports for more information. Endowed Chairs Professorship Annual Report - August 2020 CoLA Revised Governance Report Submit a Concern If you experience or become aware of discrimination or harassment, please report the violation to the appropriate unit: Department of Investigation and Adjudication Accordion 4 Panel 4. Add body text in this space. Accordion 5 Panel 5. Add body text in this space. Staff List Contact Located on the 3rd floor of the Dorothy L. Gebauer (GEB) building Office phone: 512-471-4141 Office fax: 512-471-4518 College of Liberal Arts Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr., Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712-1257 Prospective Students Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Course Descriptions Academic Calendar Student Inquiries: 512-471-4271 Departments Centers Institutes Programs Initiatives Research Units Professional Education Resources for Faculty and Staff Office of the Dean Student Affairs Research & Graduate Studies Academic Affairs Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Business Affairs Human Resources Development Public Affairs LAITS General Inquiries: 512-471-4141 The College of Liberal Arts The University of Texas at Austin 116 Inner Campus Dr. Stop G6000 Austin, TX 78712 Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Policy © Copyright 2021