Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Baylor University Libraries Guides Prototype Literacies Home Enter Search Words Search Literacies University Libraries have a range of initiatives to help faculty design and embed literacy curriculum in their courses, to prepare students for careers as thoughtful, effective communicators and content creators. Home Library Literacies Introduction Literacies and the Role of the Libraries Audience Library Literacy Initiatives Framework for Information Literacy Integrate Literacies Into Your Class Schedule a Session Resources Welcome! This guide is a place for you to go to learn more about how you can incorporate the library's literacy initiatives (including information literacy, data literacy, and media & maker literacies) into your courses. We are here to support you and your students. Please use the tabs on the left or the links below to learn about: The Baylor Libraries literacy initiatives information, data, media and maker The Association of College & Research Libraries Framework for Information Literacy How you can integrate these literacies into your courses with support from the libraries How to schedule a live session (in-person or online) Additional resources Literacies and the Role of the Libraries "Literacy" is truly a constellation of many "literacies," which cross the bounds of digital and non-digital, material and immaterial. Fundamentally, literacy involves using the full range of tools to communicate all knowledge. As traditional stewards of knowledge and always incorporating new technologies, libraries have a clear role in promoting literacies to the university community. Baylor Libraries' literacies initiative emphasizes a few specific literacies: Information, Data, Media, and Making. We provide support through our tiered information literacy instruction program, self-paced and online data literacy courses, and media lab and makerspace collaborations. We equip faculty and students with the skills they need to become creators, producers, and communicators of information and research in addition to those skills they use as consumers and evaluators. Audience This guide is meant to serve faculty and instructors who are interested in partnering with the libraries to incorporate library-supported literacies into their courses. Next: Library Literacy Initiatives >> Last Updated: Aug 16, 2021 5:08 PM URL: https://libguides.baylor.edu/literacies Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Tags: digital_media, Maker, makerspace, Media Lab, multimedia University Libraries One Bear Place #97148 Waco, TX 76798-7148 (254) 710-6702 Ask a Question libraryquestions@baylor.edu Osofast A-Z Databases OneSearch Profiles Library Account Login Hours Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Report It | Title IX | Mental Health Resources | Anonymous Reporting | Legal Disclosures