Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Baylor University Libraries Guides HelpDesk+ Experiential Learning Commons Home Search this Group Search Experiential Learning Commons Introduction to the Experiential Learning Commons (ELC) team, our spaces, equipment, and services. Home Gallery Mission Our Team Service Catalogue Digital Media Makerspace Multimedia Services Curriculum Toolkits Workshops Creative Project Request Mission The Experiential Learning Commons (ELC) strives to develop and host a passionate community of learners, teachers, and researchers interested in creativity, innovation, and critical engagement with our world. We do this through specialized equipment and spaces, supported projects, and ongoing conversations. Our Team Service Catalogue The ELC specifically emphasizes learning, teaching, and research opportunities in the areas of making, digital media, and academic audiovisual production. Each of these services is led by qualified staff, focused on helping faculty bring their research and teaching ideas to life and providing transformative learning opportunities for our community. Media and Making instruction to support the library's Literacies Initiative, including credentialing and on-demand and prepared learning opportunities. Development of creative assignments incorporating making and digital media, including selecting learning objectives, identifying competencies, developing rubrics and assessment strategies, and instructional design. Orientations and workshops. Project consultation, coaching, and review. Audiovisual and technology equipment loans at hdplus.libcal.com. Studio spaces to enable media content creation, including video studios, audio studios, lightboard, and green screen. Kaltura media platform training and support. Digital fabrication and a range of shop tools for making. VR/AR exploration. Academic audiovisual production, including course video content, course trailers, faculty bios, and other select creative projects. PawPrints student printing. Shared service point with ITS Helpdesk supporting campus technology needs. Read about "Experiential Learning" as an Instructional Strategy at Learning Together. Please reach out for a tour, roadshow at your next meeting, or assistance on your next creative project! Find us online at baylor.edu/library/elc ELC Rack Card 1/2-page brochure - ELC mission and service catalogue Next: Digital Media >> Last Updated: May 17, 2022 5:47 PM URL: https://libguides.baylor.edu/experiential-learning-commons Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Experiential Learning Commons, General, Technology, Tutorials Tags: Adobe, Experiential Learning, makerspace, Media Lab, multimedia, Problem-based Learning, Project-based Learning ITS HELPDESK | ELC SUPPORT | 254-710-TECH (8324)