Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Baylor University Libraries Guides Baylor LHSON Nursing Resources Home Search this Guide Search Baylor LHSON Nursing Resources Home Finding Articles and DatabasesToggle Dropdown Clinical Databases Navigating to Nursing Databases Conducting a CINAHL Search Three Technology Tools to Help with Research Finding Books Finding Anatomy Resources Grants Questions? Ask us! Introduction Welcome to the research guide for Nursing! In this guide you'll find nursing and medical dictionaries, encyclopedias, ways to access books in the Baylor Libraries, important databases to access for literature searches and clinical knowledge, and grant information for researchers! Nursing Dictionaries and Encyclopedias Dorland's Dictionary of Medical Acronyms and Abbreviations by Dorland ISBN: 9780323442541 Publication Date: 2015-07-18 Medical acronyms and abbreviations offer convenience, but those countless shortcuts can often be confusing. Now a part of the popular Dorland's suite of products, this reference features thousands of terms from across various medical specialties. Its alphabetical arrangement makes for quick reference, and expanded coverage of symbols ensures they are easier to find. Effective communication plays an important role in all medical settings, so turn to this trusted volume for nearly any medical abbreviation you might encounter. Symbols section makes it easier to locate unusual or seldom-used symbols. Convenient alphabetical format allows you to find the entry you need more intuitively. More than 90,000 entries and definitions. Many new and updated entries including terminology in expanding specialties, such as Nursing; Physical, Occupational, and Speech Therapies; Transcription and Coding; Computer and Technical Fields. New section on abbreviations to avoid, including Joint Commission abbreviations that are not to be used. Incorporates updates suggested by the Institute for Safe Medication Practices (ISMP). Encyclopedia of Nursing Research by Joyce J. Fitzpatrick ISBN: 9780826133045 Publication Date: 2017-07-01 This award-winning nursing reference, meticulously researched by luminaries in the field, represents the state of the art in nursing science. Comprehensive and concise, entries provide the most relevant and current research perspectives and demonstrate the depth and breadth of nursing research today. This one-stop reference presents key terms and concepts and clarifies their application to practice. The fourth edition has been substantially updated to contain the latest research for nurse scientists, educators, and students in all clinical specialties. With new information from the National Institute of Nursing Research, this reference is an essential compendium of nursing research for nursing students at any level and researchers in all clinical specialities. New to the Fourth Edition: Extensively revised and updatedProvides new information emphasized by the National Institute of Nursing Research on wellness, end-of-life and palliative care, and health technologyNew entries, including Symptom Management Theory and Self-Management Key Features: Provides the most relevant and current research perspectivesWritten by over 200 experts in the fieldClarifies research applications in practice Gale Encyclopedia of Nursing and Allied Health by Jacqueline Longe (Editor) ISBN: 9781414498881 Publication Date: 2013-06-06 "In the fully updated third edition of this award-winning title, more than 1,000 alphabetically arranged entries, of which about 100 are new, cover topics in body systems and functions, conditions and common diseases, contemporary health care issues and theories, techniques and practices, and devices and equipment. The Encyclopedia covers all major health professions, including nursing, physical therapy, occupational therapy, respiratory therapy and more. " Medical Dictionary by Stedman's Medical Dictionary Staff (Created by); Thomas Lathrop Stedman ISBN: 9780781733908 Publication Date: 2005-12-14 Selected as a Doody's Core Title for 2021! A must-have medical reference resource! Stedman's Medical Dictionary, 28th Edition, is the most reliable resource available for healthcare professionals, including medical students, physicians, educators, researchers, and medical language specialists. More than 45 consultants from all the major medical and health science specialties have reviewed each word for accuracy and clarity, including new consultants for the specialties of endocrinology, gastroenterology, geriatrics, and rheumatology. Includes more than 107,000 terms and definitions. Approximately 1500 color illustrations, photographs, and tables expand and clarify the meanings of the dictionary terms and help the user develop a better understanding of the terms. Suffixes, prefixes, and combining forms - the 'building blocks' of medical language - are marked with an icon to aid in the user learning these terms. Terminologia Anatomica utilized for Gross Anatomy and Neuroanatomy as sanctioned by the Federative Committee on Anatomical Terminology. Easy-to-find subentries are included on their own line for easier readability. Useful cross-references highlighted in blue refer the user to a preferred synonym. Precision cut thumb tabs help readers easily search for terms Also included with purchase is a free 3-month subscription to Stedman's Online, which includes all the content from the print dictionary and more- Superior keyword search functionality making accuracy instantaneous Access to more than 5,600 images illustrating key medical terms and concepts Customize the product using My Stedman's: add terms, add notes to terms, save searches and illustrations - all features to provide you with a personal experience that meets your needs 42 illuminating live-action videos from Acland's Video Atlas of Human Anatomy present anatomy in motion Click-on audio icons displayed alongside approximately 60,000 terms let you hear correct pronunciations Merriam-Webster's Medical Dictionary ISBN: 9781786841131 A concise, up-to-date guide to the essential language of medicine. Contains More than 38,000 entries and covers the latest brand names and generic equivalents of common drugs. Nursing Leadership by Harriet R. Feldman ISBN: 9780826121769 Publication Date: 2011-10-01 A single comprehensive reference for nursing leaders, leadership organizations, nursing clinicians, and educators, Nursing Leadership is the only compendium of nursing terminology in existence. Written by eminent nursing professionals, it provides descriptions of prominent individuals in nursing, information regarding nine leadership-related topics, and current trends in nurse leadership. This second edition has been expanded to encompass 80 new entries and revisions or updates to all original entries. It provides an extensive overview of current leadership issues including theories, characteristics, and skills required of nurse leaders in today's complex health care system. Highly respected contributors include Claire Fagan, Beverly Malone (NLN CEO), Polly Bednash (AACN CEO), Patricia Benner, and many others. For ease of use this new edition contains both alphabetic and thematic indexes, extensive cross-referencing, and print and web references for each entry. The new edition features: Thematic list of entries in addition to alphabetic index An extensive overview on salient nursing leadership issues, themes, characteristics, and current and future developments A "legacies" section on nursing luminaries throughout history Over 80 new entries and updates and revisions of original entries Extensive cross-referencing and print and web resources for each entry Oxford Concise Medical Dictionary by Elizabeth Martin (Editor) ISBN: 9780199687817 Publication Date: 2015-01-01 Written by a team of medical experts, this market-leading illustrated dictionary contains 12,400 authoritative entries covering all aspects of medical science. The text has been fully revised and updated for this new edition to reflect the very latest in medical knowledge and practice. Entriesare accessible and jargon-free and are complemented by over 145 illustrations and diagrams.This brand new edition includes over 450 new entries and features up-to-date coverage of public health medicine and general practice, drugs and pharmacology, endocrinology (particularly diabetology), and cardiology, amongst other specialist areas. Recommended web links are provided for many entries,accessible and kept up to date via the Medical Dictionary Companion website, and appendices have been expanded to include units of alcohol and the calculation of alcohol by volume, and a table of inherited medical conditions.Selling over a million copies in previous editions, this is an essential A-Z for students and those working in the medical and allied professions, including nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists, social workers, hospital administrators, and medical secretaries. It is also an invaluable homereference guide for the general reader. Taber's cyclopedic medical dictionary ISBN: 9781786842961 In hand, online or mobile...the all-in-one, go-to source for classroom, clinic, and beyond. See what students have to say... Amazing "Anything and everything you want to know about medical information is in this book." - Amazon Reviewer Five Stars "What every medical student, student nurse, paramedic student, and medical professional should have" - Amazon Reviewer Great resource for nursing students! "The Bible for Nurses creating care plans! Has everything you will need; disease definition, symptoms, NANDA's, interventions. A must-have for students!" --Dora Duran Taber's brings meanings to life. Put the language of nursing, medicine and the healthcare professions at your fingertips. In hand, online, or on your mobile device--anywhere and everywhere, Taber's 23 is the all-in-one, go-to source in the classroom, clinical, and beyond. Under the editorial direction of Donald Venes, MD, MSJ, a team of expert consulting editors and consultants representing nearly every health care profession ensures that the content reflects the most current healthcare information. Webster's New World Medical Dictionary ISBN: 9781784027834 Webster's New World Medical Dictionary, Third Edition will help you understand and communicate your medical needs when it matters the most. Written by doctors and the experts at WebMD, this edition includes 8500 entries, including 500 new terms, a vitamin appendix, and a companion website to give you access to medical language. Next: Finding Articles and Databases >> Last Updated: May 12, 2022 11:43 AM URL: https://libguides.baylor.edu/LHSON_Nursing_Resources Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem University Libraries One Bear Place #97148 Waco, TX 76798-7148 (254) 710-6702 Ask a Question libraryquestions@baylor.edu Osofast A-Z Databases OneSearch Profiles Library Account Login Hours Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Report It | Title IX | Mental Health Resources | Anonymous Reporting | Legal Disclosures