Skip to Main Content University of Memphis Libraries Research Guides Graduate Library Orientation Home Graduate Library Orientation Welcome (back, for some!) to the University of Memphis' University Libraries! This Research Guide will assist you in learning what the Libraries have to offer you! Home Study Research ResourcesToggle Dropdown Introduction to Research Learn Graduate Teaching Resources Research and Writing Support Funding for Graduate Students Publishing Writing Help Citation Resources Other Resources for Graduate Students Get Help at McWherter Library Ned R. McWherter Library 3785 Norriswood Ave., Memphis, TN 38152 Ask a Librarian Hours / Events Schedule a Research Appointment Welcome to McWherter Library McWherter Rotunda Library stacks. Yes, we still have books! Research Assistance Desk, here to help you! Interlibrary Loan, for all the things we don't have and that you need! The Fishbowl, for large group study Group Study Rooms, available on the 3rd and 4th floor Individual Study Rooms, available on 3rd and 4th floor to check out on a semester basis. Able to lock and secure all your materials! Center for Writing and Communication, for help editing and structuring your papers Welcome to the University of Memphis McWherter Library Graduate students have it rough. While you take fewer classes, there is more reading and a higher level of research that is expected of you. Never fear, though! McWherter Library has resources and support just for you. No matter the class, be it a research methods or bibliography class, or your thesis or dissertation, the librarians at McWherter are here to help you. In this guide, you will find information tailored to the graduate student experience at the University of Memphis, including information on study spaces (including individual study carrels), the research resources and support available to you, listings and links for various workshops held around campus that deal with issues and topics specific to graduate students, and links to important campus and local organizations that all graduate students should be aware of. Further, if you will be teaching courses during your time at U of M, there is an entire page dedicated to resources that the library has at your disposal. Hopefully you will find something of interest here along with help to get you started in your graduate studies at U of M. If you have any questions, please email us or contact us via any of the links on these pages. Welcome to the University of Memphis!! Next: Study >> Last Updated: May 26, 2022 4:55 PM URL: https://libguides.memphis.edu/graduate Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Graduate Student Research, Information Literacy, Library Help/How-To Guides, Scholarly Communication Tags: academic readiness, grad, graduate