Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Texas Tech University School of Law Library LibGuides Faculty Services About the Law Library Search this Guide Search Faculty Services: About the Law Library A guide to services for Faculty at Texas Tech University School of Law Library About the Law Library Law Library Collections Services for Faculty Faculty Information Consultants Faculty Research and Publications Keeping Current Reference Services Circulation Services Make a Request Contact Us About TTU Law Library The Texas Tech University School of Law Library (Law Library) is the largest legal information center in the area covering western Texas, eastern New Mexico, and southern Oklahoma. The Law Library and its staff serve the educational, instructional, and research needs of the Texas Tech University School of Law. The Law Library collection contains over 400,000 volumes in books, treatises, periodicals, microforms, government documents, and other materials in law, social sciences, and other subjects. Additionally, the Law Library provides faculty free access to multiple full-text legal databases, including LexisNexis, Westlaw, Bloomberg Law, and other national databases. As part of a comprehensive research university, the Law Library works in conjunction with the University Library to provide faculty easy access to its respective collections and databases. The Law Library’s website offers information and updates about library hours, staff, services, programs, and access to electronic databases. Law Library and Reference Hours Law School ID cards provide law student and law faculty access to the Law Library 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The Library is open to the public and members of the legal community during regular operating hours. Please Note: Special hours are set for holidays and inter-session periods. For updates, visit the Library’s website or the Library Hours calendar. REFERENCE On-Call Reference (Regular Term) Monday - Friday 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. CIRCULATION Final Exam Hours April 17 - May 12 Monday - Thursday 7:30 a.m. - 11:55 p.m. Friday 7:30 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. Saturday 9:00 a.m. - 9:00 p.m. Sunday 1:00 p.m. - 11:55 p.m. Research & Information Desk Hours (Regular Academic Term) Monday - Thursday 7:30 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. Friday 7:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Saturday 9:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Sunday 1:00 p.m. - 10:00 p.m. COMPUTER SUPPORT Computer Support Hours (Regular Academic Term) Monday - Thursday 8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m. Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m. Computer Support Hours (Orientation Only) Monday - Friday 8:00 a.m. - 5:00 p.m Regular Operating Hours The Circulation Desk is open from 7:30am to 5:00pm, Monday through Friday. You can also email or call at: Email: circulation.law@ttu.edu Phone: 806-742-3957 Reference services are available during the hours of 8:30am to 4:30pm, Monday through Friday. For Reference assistance, please stop by the Circulation Desk. You can also contact the Reference Team via email, phone, or chat services. Email: reference.law@ttu.edu Phone: 806-742-7155 Chat: Use the "Ask a Librarian" chat feature on the Law Library's Homepage. Library Guides and Catalogs Law Library Location Guide This Location Guide facilitates access to major sets of materials without call numbers. Law Library Catalog This website provides access to the Law Library's catalog, collection, and course reserves. OneSearch (TTU Main Library) This website provides access to the main campus library's catalog, ejournals, and databases. Southwest Collection/Special Collections Library This catalog includes access to special collections, digital collections, oral history, exhibits, and Texas Tech University Archives. Health Sciences Library This website provides access to the TTUHSC Schools of Medicine Library's journals, catalogs, databases, and ebooks. Architecture Library This website provides access to the Architecture Library's materials on architecture, design, urban planning, and landscape architecture including an Image Library of digital collections on architecture, art, and design. Next: Law Library Collections >> Last Updated: Apr 18, 2022 1:31 PM URL: https://libguides.law.ttu.edu/faculty Print Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Library Services