Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Texas Tech University School of Law Library LibGuides Services for Attorneys and Judges About the Law Library Search this Guide Search Services for Attorneys and Judges: About the Law Library About the Law Library Law Library Collections Scanning and Printing Services Reference Services Nexis Uni Contact Us About TTU Law Library The Texas Tech University School of Law Library (“Law Library”) is the largest legal information center in the area covering western Texas, eastern New Mexico, and southern Oklahoma. The Law Library and its staff serve and support the educational, instructional, and research needs of the School of Law. The Law Library’s website offers information about library hours, staff, services, programs, and access to electronic databases. The staff constantly updates the website with new information. Go to http://www.law.ttu.edu/lawlibrary/ to see all that the library has to offer! Everyone is welcome to use the print resources of the Law Library. However, some of the Law Library's online resources (e.g., Westlaw, LexisNexis) are available only to Texas Tech Law Students and Faculty Members. If you are not a Texas Tech Law Student or Faculty Member, the Law Library offers alternatives to those sources for your use, such as LexisNexis Academic. The Law Library serves attorneys, judges, paralegals, residents of Texas and the public in general. Members of the public may: Browse and use the collection; Use certain equipment such as: public access computers, scanner on the 1st Floor, and printing services. Access resources in the library such as the Internet; and Ask questions and receive assistance from the Law Library staff. Borrow items Receive cases, statutes, rules and articles copied and sent to your firm or residence through document delivery. Fees for this service may apply. To request this service, please contact Barbara Painter-Moreno, Assistant Director of Library Operations, at 806-834-6625 or email barbara.painter@ttu.edu Regular Operating Hours The Circulation Desk is open from 7:30am to 5:00pm, Monday through Friday. You can also email or call at: Email: circulation.law@ttu.edu Phone: 806-742-3957 Reference services are available during the hours of 8:30am to 4:30pm, Monday through Friday. For Reference assistance, please stop by the Circulation Desk. You can also contact the Reference Team via email, phone, or chat services. Email: reference.law@ttu.edu Phone: 806-742-7155 Chat: Use the "Ask a Librarian" chat feature on the Law Library's Homepage. Library Guides and Catalogs Law Library Location Guide This Location Guide facilitates access to major sets of materials without call numbers. Law Library Catalog This website provides access to the Law Library's catalog, collection, and course reserves. OneSearch (TTU Main Library) This website provides access to the main campus library's catalog, ejournals, and databases. Southwest Collection/Special Collections Library This catalog includes access to special collections, digital collections, oral history, exhibits, and Texas Tech University Archives. Health Sciences Library This website provides access to the TTUHSC Schools of Medicine Library's journals, catalogs, databases, and ebooks. Architecture Library This website provides access to the Architecture Library's materials on architecture, design, urban planning, and landscape architecture including an Image Library of digital collections on architecture, art, and design. Next: Law Library Collections >> Last Updated: Apr 18, 2022 1:31 PM URL: https://libguides.law.ttu.edu/practitionerservices Print Page Login to LibApps Subjects: Library Services