Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Baylor University Libraries Guides Using a Reading List in Canvas Introduction Search this Guide Search Using a Reading List in Canvas: Introduction Leganto Reading List from Ex Libris Introduction Step 1: Setup Step 2: Add itemsToggle Dropdown Add items via the Library's catalog Add/upload items manually Add item via Cite It! bookmarklet Step 3: Send/Publish list Collections Support Copyright Tutorials from Ex Libris What are Course Reading Lists? The Baylor University Libraries have recently adopted a new course reserves software that is integrated into Canvas. The tool, called “Reading List” in your Canvas online course space, leverages the power of Ex Libris Leganto and the Library Catalog to develop content diverse reading lists. Reading List Introduction The Baylor Libraries' Course Reading List in Canvas is designed to help instructors incorporate library materials in their Canvas courses. Instructors can use the tool to build reading lists that include books and articles owned by the library, videos, web resources, and more. Benefits: Instructors search the library catalog and link directly to resources; no need to deal with off-campus access or link maintenance Course materials can be saved and reused in other courses or future semesters Course materials lists are added to Canvas course navigation so that students have easy access Embedded analytics can provide data on students' use of the materials. This guide has been adapted with permission from this guide at the Colorado School of Mines. Next: Step 1: Setup >> Last Updated: Dec 6, 2021 3:19 PM URL: https://libguides.baylor.edu/coursereadinglist Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. Tags: tutorial University Libraries One Bear Place #97148 Waco, TX 76798-7148 (254) 710-6702 Ask a Question libraryquestions@baylor.edu Osofast A-Z Databases OneSearch Profiles Library Account Login Hours Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Report It | Title IX | Mental Health Resources | Anonymous Reporting | Legal Disclosures