Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Baylor University Libraries Guides HelpDesk+ Moody Media Lab Home Search this Group Search Moody Media Lab Recording studios, A/V media equipment loans, VR/AR lab. We've got great stuff for your multimedia projects. Home Introduction Welcome Gallery SpacesToggle Dropdown Audio Booth Orientation Video Booth Orientation Lightboard Studio Orientation Equipment Introduction Moody Library was generously offered a gift from the Shumacher Foundation and four office spaces to create digital media lab spaces for the Baylor community. Included are three recording studios, A/V equipment for reservation, and computers for editing and rendering. Reading literacy and access to knowledge in the written word has long been a central goal for libraries. With the ascendency of digital literacy and the expense of access to the tools of this trade, libraries have increasingly begun providing media creation and exploration spaces. Baylor University Libraries is pleased to join this trend. Reserve our spaces and equipment at hdplus.libcal.com/reserve/medialab. Our Services Many faculty have been recording instructional content for years and assigning creative projects to students using the Media Lab. With current demand for hybrid and online courses, the Experiential Learning Commons is widening our net, and sharpening our multimedia support for five base recording scenarios: Audio and Video Audio only Lightboard Audio & Video Screen Capture with Audio Document Camera with Audio For each, we have provided dedicated studios, support materials, how-to guides, and loaner kits to use from your home or office. The Media Lab also has equipment and spaces for VR/AR, 360° video, and other experiential learning projects using multimedia. These will be supported on a case-by-case basis. Make an appointment, and let's talk! The Media Lab has opened paths for faculty to create and distribute course content in innovative ways that engage students in ALL learning environments. The multimedia resources produced as a result of using the Media Lab have encouraged faculty to (1) create student-centered learning environments based on research-driven best practices, (2) revisit instructional philosophies to refine how learning is measured and assessed, and (3) leverage the digital learning space our students are accustomed to interacting in." - Dr. John Solis Senior Academic Consultant, Instructional Designer, Learning Design The Media Lab is a service of the Experiential Learning Commons, a part of Library and Academic Technology Services WELCOME TO THE MOODY MEDIA LAB Next: Spaces >> Last Updated: May 17, 2022 5:11 PM URL: https://libguides.baylor.edu/medialab Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Subjects: Experiential Learning Commons, General, Technology, Tutorials ITS HELPDESK | ELC SUPPORT | 254-710-TECH (8324)