Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback SAS/Student Accessibility Services In coordination with SAS/Student Accessibility Services, the Brown University Library provides accommodations for Library users. Resources Some of the thousands of electronic resources and ebooks provided by the Library may not be compatible with assistive technologies, such as JAWS. Contact eresources@brown.edu for assistance. Reference and Library Assistance Chat: Live chat is available for students and faculty. Email: rock@brown.edu Building and Study Space Accessibility The Rockefeller Library, Sciences Library and the Friedman Study Center, Orwig Music Library, and the John Hay Library have accessible entrances and are equipped with elevators. Adjustable height study tables are available in the Rock and Friedman Study Center. Rockefeller Library Ramp at front entrance on Prospect Street Hours / About the Rockefeller Library Orwig Music Library Ramp at entrance on Thayer Street Hours / About the Sciences Library Orwig Music Library Ramp open during business hours Hours / About the Orwig Music Library John Hay Library Ramp entrance on Prospect Street, on the north side of the building Hours / About the John Hay Library Individual Research Consultations Subject librarians are available to meet individually with students to assist with research, including finding and using Library materials. Request a research consultation or browse the list of specialists. Assistive Technology Labs Restricted access computer labs are located in the Friedman Center in the Sciences Library and in the Rockefeller Library. Labs include computers and scanners with Kurzweil 3000, JAWS, ZoomText, Naturally Speaking, Optelec magnifier, and Inspiration. Learn more about these computer stations. Please contact SAS for access to the assistive technology labs. The Library does not provide access to the assistive technology rooms. DSS can arrange for access to materials in alternate formats. Learn more about the full range of SAS/Student Accessibility Services, including more information about the assistive technologies that are offered. Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University