Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions 2021-2022 Resources 2021-22 Resources Home Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty and Teaching Assistants Faculty and Teaching Assistants — Spring 2022 Visiting the Library Princeton University faculty members with active NetIDs and card access to University buildings may freely enter Library locations to study or browse the stacks. Effective March 14, 2022, per University policy, face coverings are optional. Some exceptions requiring masks may apply. Food & Drink Policy Use technology Printers and scanners are available at all Library locations. Accessing Materials Online Remote research If you are working remotely, the best way to access online library materials is through EZ Proxy. You may also use SonicWall Secure Remote Access. If you have trouble accessing materials, please report a problem. Book Pick Up and Digitization Faculty are welcome to request book pick-up or digitization services for our print collections. To request an item for pick-up or digitization, click the “Request Pick-up or Digitization” button in the catalog record. Borrow materials from other libraries BorrowDirect and Interlibrary Loan are up and running. To check the status of a request, please email ilsborr@princeton.edu. Teaching Assistance Consult with your subject specialist The librarian assigned to your department is available to create course guides, recommend materials, teach a workshop in person or through Zoom, and meet with your students. You can reach out to them directly by email to request instruction. Request digitization of course reserves Need materials digitized for course reserves? Submit a request through Canvas. Log into Canvas. Select your course. Click on the “Reserves” link on the course site menu. If this is the first time you’ve used Reserves for this course, you will be prompted to choose a semester and click on “Create course.” At the top right of the following page, click on “Item tools” and select “Add items.” A new page will open with options for adding material to the course. You may select a form (article, chapter, book, file upload, audio, and video) and submit individual requests for items to be placed on reserve. If you have any questions, email the Reserve staff at reserve@princeton.edu. Learn more on how to submit a course reserves request. Utilize special collections in courses Schedule a consultation with our Special Collections department to design a class session, or join an open and informal Virtual Visit to ask staff any questions related to special collections such as how to deliver images on teaching platforms, providing live or recorded instruction with materials, or brainstorming teaching ideas. Research Assistance Apply for publication funding PUL’s Open Access Publication Fund aims to help Princeton authors, especially graduate students, junior faculty, and researchers in the humanities and social sciences, underwrite publication charges when publishing in fee-based Open Access publications when no other funding sources are available. Applications for funding are now open. Recommend a purchase Use this form to request that the Library purchase a book, journal, magazine, video, dataset, or other material, whether print or electronic. Ask Us If you have a question and aren’t sure who to ask, you can chat with us or send us an email. Library Videos: instructional, informational, past events and more Explore Library videos through Media Central As videos containing instructional and informational content as well as past events and presentations are developed by the Library, they are archived and made available through Media Central channels. Library Happenings Stay in touch Subscribe to the PUL e-newsletter to learn more about Library initiatives, resources, and events. Join library events and workshops Browse our Events and Workshops page to view upcoming virtual library webinars, events, and workshops. Virtually visit Firestone Library Explore the inside of Firestone Library with this video. Enjoy from home The Library provides many subscriptions or collections that faculty, students, and staff can enjoy from the comfort of their own home: New York Times Washington Post Wall Street Journal Rosetta Stone Dixon eBook collection for leisure reading Music or performing arts streaming services New Faculty Members Welcome to Princeton University! View our checklist for new faculty members. Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top