Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog How to... Donate Your Materials to the Harvard University Archives Work with the Harvard University Archives to add your materials to Harvard’s intellectual, cultural, social, religious, and administrative history Welcome Schedule a Consultation Faculty Guidelines Donating Digital Materials Welcome The Harvard University Archives is the primary repository for the documentation of over 400 years of Harvard’s intellectual, cultural, social, religious, and administrative history — a history that parallels and adds to the story of the growth of the United States. We continue to build our collections so that we can share a multi-layered and nuanced story of life and work at Harvard, as well as the individual stories of contributors to our history and community into the 21st century. We work with individual donors, as well as Harvard faculty and staff, to identify materials that contribute to our collecting goals, and assist with the details of making a contribution of materials to our permanent collections. Schedule a Consultation Archivists and records managers at the Harvard University Archives work closely with faculty, staff, students, alumni, family members, and other donors to identify materials of research interest to preserve. The Archives is interested in a wide range of material documenting the University and the people who work, study, and reside in its ever-changing environment. Harvard Faculty Faculty interested in working with an archivist to preserve their intellectual legacy and personal archives at the University Archives should contact the Collection Development department. archives_collections@harvard.edu 617-384-7786 Administrators & Staff Administrators and staff interested in transferring historical and permanent records to the University Archives should contact our Records Management department for guidance and consultation. archives_transfers@harvard.edu 617-495-5961 Students & Alumni Students and alumni interested in speaking with an archivist about donating materials related to Harvard to the University Archives should contact the Collection Development department. archives_collections@harvard.edu 617-384-7786 Family & Friends Family of alumni, friends, and others interested in speaking with an archivist about donating materials related to Harvard to the University Archives should contact the Collection Development department. archives_collections@harvard.edu 617-384-7786 Tax Benefits and Appraisals In certain circumstances, donations may qualify as tax-deductible, entitling donors to an income tax deduction by claiming a gift as a charitable donation. Donors are encouraged to speak with their tax accountants or attorneys about this possibility. Faculty Guidelines In addition to preserving the documentary heritage of Harvard University, the Archives has a vital mission to set and implement policies for the management of University records, including the promotion of records storage and retrieval efficiencies. The Harvard University Archives advises faculty and faculty assistants on managing the University records faculty members create or that are in their care. These guidelines are based on best practices, federal and state privacy and confidentiality regulations, University records-retention policies, and a survey of current methods used by your colleagues at Harvard. Donating Digital Materials The Harvard University Archives collects and preserves email, websites, and other born digital records and images. Collecting these materials enhances documentation of the current history of Harvard University, and provides future access to the words, thoughts, and actions of many individuals and organizations in the late 20th century and beyond. The Harvard Library stores and preserves email via its Digital Repository Service (DRS). We are happy to discuss materials in these formats during a consultation. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.