Skip to main content Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Menu Main navigation Explore Resources Knowledge Base Insights Programs Archives & Special Collections Secondary navigation About Us Ask a Question COVID-19 Update Search for: Breadcrumb Home About Us Library Policies Access Policy The primary clientele of the Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library are the students, educators, researchers, and clinicians of the Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Services and resources are extended to a few other groups. All of our clientele are welcome to use the Health Sciences Library during our staffed hours. After the staffed hours, the Library is closed and only individuals with active CUIMC IDs have swipe-card access. Borrowing and Fines Policy To borrow materials from the Health Sciences Library, valid identification from one of the institutions listed on our access policy is required. However, access privileges do not guarantee borrowing privileges. Please contact the Library to ensure that you have borrowing privileges. Collection Development Policies A list of the Library’s policies regarding the growth of the collection. Consulting Service Policy The Consulting Service Policy aims to make any consulting engagement with Information Experts (Informationists) from the Health Sciences Library (HSL) effective and efficient. Gift and Donation Policy The Health Sciences Library selectively accepts print, a/v and electronic materials according to its subject profile Food and Drink Policy To provide clean, pleasant, and sustainable spaces to members of the Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library. Our goal is to have an environment that is conducive to studying, minimizes distractions, and can be enjoyed equally by all Library members – current and future. Interlibrary Loan Policy Any current Columbia University Irving Medical Center student, faculty or staff member may request items not owned by Columbia University or any of the Borrow Direct institutions through the Health Sciences Library Interlibrary Loan Office. Space Use Policy The Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library strives to provide clean and pleasant spaces to our visitors. Our goal is to have a sustainable environment that is conducive to scholarly efforts, minimizes distractions, and can be enjoyed equally by all Library visitors – current and future. This requires that we exercise care in monitoring the use of spaces we oversee. Course Reserves Policy Information for faculty on setting up course reserves and information for students on using course reserves materials. Privacy Policies Columbia University and CUIMC policies governing use of the Health Sciences Library website. About Us Location and Hours Library Spaces Library Staff Library Accounts Library Policies Computing Resources Recommend A Library Purchase Back to top Advancing meaningful engagement with information Contact Us Service Desk: (212) 305-3605 Interlibrary Loan: (212) 305-3605 Archives & Special Collections: (212) 305-7931 Send us an email Connect on Twitter (@CUIMClibrary) Visit Us Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Hammer Health Sciences Building, Lobby Level Columbia University Irving Medical Center 701 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 About Us Location and Hours Library Spaces Library Staff Library Accounts Library Policies Computing Resources Recommend A Library Purchase Columbia University Irving Medical Center © 2021 Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Manage Web Cookie Preference