Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions 2021-2022 Resources 2021-22 Resources Home Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty and Teaching Assistants Graduate Students — Spring 2022 Visiting the Library Princeton University graduate students with active NetIDs and card access to University buildings may freely enter Library locations to study or browse the stacks, or to work in the graduate study rooms in Firestone. Effective March 14, 2022, per University policy, face coverings are optional. Some exceptions requiring masks may apply. Food & Drink Policy Use technology Printers and scanners are available at all Library locations. Accessing Materials Research online Library materials available online, such as digitized collections and databases, continue to be accessible. You can use either the EZ Proxy service or the SonicWall Secure Remote Access to connect to the Library. Learn more. You must have an active NetID and password to access electronic Library materials. If you have trouble accessing materials, please report a problem. Access print collections Graduate students are welcome to request book pick-up or in-house digitization services. To request an item for pick-up or digitization, click the “Request Pick-up or Digitization” button in the catalog record. Access your course reserves Access your course reserves by logging into Canvas and clicking on the “Reserves” menu item. If a professor indicates in the syllabus that an item is available at the Library, this often means that the item is not on reserve but rather that you can search for the item on the Library catalog. For graduate students providing instruction, learn here how to submit a course reserves request. Borrow materials from other libraries Borrow Direct and Interlibrary Loan are up and running. To check the status of a request, please email ilsborr@princeton.edu. Research Assistance Get specialized support Services such as Data & Statistical Services, the Stokes Visualization Hub, and the Maps and Geospatial Information Center remain available for consultations remotely. Also available is an 8-month Research Data Stewardship Program designed for early-career researchers. Apply for publication funding PUL’s Open Access Publication Fund aims to help Princeton authors, especially graduate students, junior faculty, and researchers in the humanities and social sciences, underwrite publication charges when publishing in fee-based Open Access publications when no other funding sources are available. Applications for funding are now open. Find your subject librarian Librarians can provide research consultations in person and remotely through Zoom. Contact your subject librarian to schedule a consultation. Explore new research tools The Library provides access to numerous research tools that help you save time and Anywhere Access, a browser extension that provides one-click full-text PDF access to open access and library-subscribed content Overleaf, an online, collaborative scientific writing and publishing tool that helps speed up the process of writing, editing, and producing scientific papers Zotero, a citation manager that saves your sources with bibliographic information and creates works cited, bibliographies, or references page for you Ask Us If you have a question and aren’t sure who to ask, you can chat with us or send us an email. Library Videos: instructional, informational, past events and more Explore Library videos through Media Central As videos containing instructional and informational content as well as past events and presentations are developed by the Library, they are archived and made available through Media Central channels. Circulation & Accounts Return books All fines will continue to be suspended this spring, except Reserves and Recall items. Please continue to renew your materials as necessary. Books may be returned to a book drop at any library location, regardless of the library in which the book usually resides. If you have a large number of books to return, please email the Circulation Desk at fstcirc@princeton.edu to arrange for an appointment. Likewise, if you will not be returning to campus and need to return books, please email fstcirc@princeton.edu and they will advise you on the procedure. Confirm account is in good standing If, for a leave of absence, you need a letter to verify that your library account is in good standing, please email the Circulation Desk at fstcirc@princeton.edu, who will send you an email as confirmation. Library Happenings Join library events and workshops Browse our Events and Workshops page to view upcoming library webinars, events, and workshops. Work at the Library Graduate students are eligible to work physically or remotely at the libraries. Please see the student employment website for available job postings. Stay in touch Subscribe to the PUL e-newsletter to learn more about Library initiatives, resources, and events. Virtually visit Firestone Library Explore the inside of Firestone Library with this video. Enjoy from home The Library provides many subscriptions or collections that students, faculty, and staff can enjoy from the comfort of their own home: New York Times Washington Post Wall Street Journal Rosetta Stone Dixon eBook collection for leisure reading Music or performing arts streaming services New Students New to Princeton University? View our checklist for new graduate students and the Graduate Student Guide to PUL 2021-22. Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top