Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Wolbach Library Supporting research about the Universe About Contact Resources Initiatives Events Glass Plates FAQ HOME / INITIATIVES / HISTORY / PHaEDRA PHaEDRA is an initiative by the Wolbach Library, in collaboration with many partners, to catalog, digitize, transcribe, and enrich the metadata of over 2500 logbooks and notebooks produced by the Harvard's Women Computers and other early astronomers. Our goal is to ensure that this remarkable set of items, created by a remarkable group of people, is as accessible and useful as possible. PHaEDRA Full-Text We are working with the Smithsonian Transcription Center’s Digital Volunteers program to crowdsource transcriptions of the PHaEDRA notebooks. Helping us transcribe the notebooks makes them full-text searchable on the NASA Astrophysics Data System. Click here to start transcribing notebooks! Star Notes We are using the Zooniverse to link the PHaEDRA notebooks to their source material: over 500,000 astronomical glass plate photographs. Making these connections will create a bridge between the modern scientific literature and 100 years of astronomical observations. Click here to start finding plate numbers! 1800s.png Project Partners Project PHaEDRA has been made possible through a cross-institutional collaboration led by the Wolbach Library. Our digitization workflow relies on our astounding project partners at the Astrophysics Data System, Harvard Library Imaging Services, and the Weissman Preservation Center. PHaEDRA also wouldn't be possible digital volunteers at the Smithsonian Transcription Center and on the Zooniverse. Thank you! Initiatives History Exhibits CfA Historian-in-Residence PHaEDRA Browse PHaEDRA Notebooks PHaEDRA Office Hours Historical Figures Index Guides and Resources PHaEDRA FAQ Elevating Observers of the Night Sky Controlled Vocabularies Library Space Technology Network Visual Astronomy Display Credit for Software Authors PHaEDRA on Twitter ProjectPHaEDRA A note dated February 26th, 1910, by Williamina P. Fleming about her research methods, from her notebook titled "Novae, Comets, Spectra". (image: phaedra0819) #projectphaedra #womeninstem #astronomy t.co/QPxcJ6qGcu 1 day 21 hours ago. c19379d01115b16a2fafdc5e745dae97 Harvard Terms of Use | Smithsonian Terms of Use | Acknowledgements| Intranet Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement