My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Events & Programs Events & Programs Program on Columbia Residence Halls and Histories of Racism and Enslavement In July 2020, Columbia University President Lee Bollinger called for all parts of Columbia to "challenge racism, its systems, and its consequences." Columbia began a University-wide review, one area of which involves symbols and representations on campus -- particularly how the geography and history of the campus are experienced by those who live, work, study, and visit here. From the names on the buildings – including enslavers such as John Jay and Samuel Bard – to largely forgotten incidents of racial violence, such as a 1924 cross burning in protest of a Black student resident — Columbia’s residence halls embody complex connections to histories of enslavement and racism. In the coming year, a pilot project facilitated by the Libraries is planned for the installation of historical markers in select residence halls on campus to commemorate and discuss these events. This event features students, faculty, and staff involved in this work giving short presentations of our latest research findings followed by a discussion of proposals. We would like to hear members of the Columbia community about how they experience the histories of racism and enslavement in the built environment on our campuses, ideas for how these histories can be acknowledged in visible ways, and expressions of interest in assisting with this project, through historical research, art of design aspects for exhibits and displays, or community outreach. The survey may be answered anonymously. Please share your input with us by May 27, 2022. Survey: https://columbialibrary.az1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_7R0tXbzsEF7UKAC Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 All Libraries Staff Subject Specialists News Events & Exhibitions Maps & Directions Libraries Awards Strategic Directions Policies Workshops Drop-in Help Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian