My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) Using the Libraries Alumni Alumni Visitors, including alumni, may access Butler Library. Visitors must check in for each visit at the Library Information Office in Butler Library during business hours with proof of vaccination and ID. Hours can be found here. Please review our Visitors page for more information about the types of visitors permitted to enter Butler at this time, plus important reminders for visits. Access & Borrowing for Alumni Columbia alumni enjoy free off-campus access to a wide range of databases and journals. Graduates of Columbia University, Barnard College, or Union Theological Seminary may apply for a University Alumni Identification Card. Borrowing privileges can be purchased for $30 per month. Borrowing privileges may not be used at the Law School, Teachers College or the Health Sciences libraries. Application can be made to the Library Information Office, with a valid government-issued photo ID. Alumni ID cards are valid for 10 years. A new ID card will be issued after the card expires. Alumni of Teachers College must obtain their alumni cards in Whittier Hall. E-Resources for Alumni Graduates of Columbia University, Barnard,Teachers College and Union Theological Seminary have off-campus access to the e-resources listed below. To use these resources alumni may need to activate their UNI or change their password using the CUIT Manage My Uni Website. Academic Commons Columbia University's digital repository where current faculty, students, and staff of Columbia and its affiliate institutions can deposit the results of their scholarly work and research. Content in Academic Commons is freely available to the public. Academic Search Premier: Alumni edition Provides full text for thousands of peer-reviewed journals—as well as thousands of peer-reviewed indexed and abstracted journals. AM Explorer Search across all Adam Matthew’s unique primary source products for the social sciences and humanities. Annual Reviews Collections of critical reviews written by leading scientists. AP Stylebook Online The Web-based edition is a fully searchable version of the Associated Press Stylebook, including an A-Z guide to usage, spelling, and a pronunciation guide with audio files. ATLASerials, Religion Collection The ATLASerials, Religion Collection is a full text-only version of the ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials for alumni. Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals: Alumni Edition Provides citations to articles in approximately 400 current and over 1,000 retrospective architectural and related periodicals with primary emphasis on architectural design and history. Business Source Premier: Alumni Edition Provides nearly 1,100 full-text business magazines and journals in nearly every area of business, including marketing, management, accounting, finance, econometrics, economics, and more. Cambridge Histories Online Provides full text online access to the complete 250-plus volumes of Cambridge Histories reference series. Provides political, economic and social history, philosophy and literature of selected countries and subjects. CIAO Access to CIAO (Columbia International Affairs Online), a comprehensive source for theory and research in international affairs. Columbia University Archives The University Archives preserves the institutional memory of Columbia University through the acquisition of official University records and related historical collections and materials from its founding in 1754 to the present day. Digital Collections at Columbia University Libraries An online resource based on some of Columbia Libraries' unique print materials. Most of these digital collections are open and available to alumni and the general public, though some content may be restricted due to copyright limitations. Directory of Open Access Books DOAB is a community-driven discovery service that indexes and provides access to scholarly, peer-reviewed open access books and helps users to find trusted open access book publishers. All DOAB services are free of charge and all data is freely available. Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ) DOAJ is an online directory that indexes and provides access to quality open access, peer-reviewed journals. gutenberg-e: Prize winning electronic books representing the most distinguished and innovative scholarship delivered with creative and thoughtful use of digital technology, published by Columbia University Press in cooperation with the American Historical Association. Journals of the American Medical Association [JAMA] Full text access to the current issues and archive of JAMA, Archives of Dermatology, Archives of Facial Plastic Surgery, Archives of General Psychiatry, Archives of Internal Medicine, Archives of Neurology, Archives of Otolaryngology, Archives of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Archives of Surgery, and the Archives of Ophthalmology. JSTOR: The Scholarly Journal Archive Provides full text and page images of over 1,000 leading scholarly journals in the humanities, sciences, and social sciences, from the earliest issues to within a few years of current publication. Mergent Online Includes business and financial information on public and private companies globally. Project Muse Full-text articles from more than 200 scholarly journals in history and the humanities, the social sciences, and the sciences. Proquest ABI/Inform Complete Provides access to full-text journals and working papers in business and economics. Also includes newspapers and country-and industry- focused reports. Proquest Alternative Press Watch Provides full-text articles for over 210 publications of the alternative and independent presses, from 1970 to current ProQuest databases Access to thousands of full-text journals and newspapers across a wide range of subject areas, including business, education, literature, political science, and psychology. Proquest Ethnic NewsWatch Includes current journals, magazines, and newspapers from ethnic and independent presses. Content covers 1990-present, with specialized coverage of the following ethnic categories: African American/Caribbean/African; Arab/Middle Eastern; Asian/Pacific Islander; European/Eastern European; Hispanic; Jewish; Native People. Proquest GenderWatch A repository of important historical perspectives on the evolution of the women's movement, men's studies, the transgender community and the changes in gender roles over the years. Publications include scholarly journals, magazines, newspapers, newsletters, regional publications, books and NGO, government and special reports ProQuest Health Management A collection of resources in the field of health administration, including journals and dissertations. Subject coverage includes health administration, health professions, hospitals, insurance, law and more. ProQuest Medical Library Comprehensive collection of journals covering clinical and biomedical literature. Subject coverage includes anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, pharmacology, microbiology, immunology, parasitology and more. ProQuest U.S. Newsstream Access to almost 50 national and international newspapers. Includes the Chicago Tribune and LA Times. Proquest Research Library This database provides access to thousands of journals from Proquest's general reference database. Search a mix of scholarly journals, trade publications and magazines covering over 150 academic disciplines including business, education, literature, political science, and psychology. PubMed Central The U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) free digital archive of biomedical and life sciences journal literature. The Responsa Project A collection of Jewish texts in Hebrew, which embody thousands of years of Jewish learning, covering Responsa Literature and includes Maimonides' Mishneh Torah, the Shulchan Aruch, the Entsiḳlopedyah Talmudit, and more. (Click here for the mobile interface.) Sage full text collection Access to the full text of over 600 scholarly journals and publications. Sage Knowledge SAGE eBook and eReference content, including scholarly monographs, reference works, handbooks, series, professional development titles and more. Sage Research Methods Tool created to help researchers, faculty and students with their research projects. SAGE Research Methods links over 175,000 pages of SAGE’s book, journal and reference content with advanced search and discovery tools. Synthesis digital library of engineering and computer science The basic component of the library is a 50- to 100-page electronic book that synthesizes an important research or development topic, authored by a prominent contributor to the field. The Talmudic Encyclopedia Thirty volumes of the Talmudic encyclopedia, also knows as Entsiḳlopedyah Talmudit, with notes and illustrations. For questions regarding resources, please contact the Library Information Office at lio@columbia.edu. Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Access Privileges Access to Other Libraries Accessibility Alumni Borrow, Request, Renew Course Reserves Print, Scan, Digitize Study Spaces Visitors Workshops Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian