Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Borrow, Request, and Renew Important Notice BruKnow, the Library’s upgraded online search tool, is now live, and Josiah has been retired. If you encounter an issue, please email libfaq@brown.libanswers.com. We are here to assist you. Learn more about BruKnow, or access the guide. Need help? Email us at rock@brown.edu, or call the Circulation Desk at 401-863-2165. Borrow materials from Brown Borrow materials from other libraries Books Articles Reminders, recalls, and fines Circulation and Resource Sharing can help you to find Library materials, not only from our own Library, but also books, articles, and other materials from other libraries. Be sure to note our policies on recalls and fines. Borrowing and Renewing Brown Library Materials Helpful Links BruKnow Circulation rules vary, but the list below outlines our basic borrowing policies. Also, some Library material may be renewed online. Use the renew/checkout history button below to extend the term of your loan, if possible. Loan Terms for Most Items Brown faculty: One-year loan. Material checked out or renewed during one calendar year must be returned or renewed at the Library by Sept. 30 of the following year. Brown graduate students: academic year and summer loan. There are two due dates per year: June 15 and October 15. Undergraduate students and staff: Eight-week loan. All other borrowers: Four-to-eight-week loan. Materials borrowed in one month are due by the end of the following month. Renew now, or view checkout history Loan terms differ for special items, including certain DVDs, CDs, art books, and other materials. You may also borrow items for use within the Library, including laptops, power cords, headphones, and more. Some policies differ for Library visitors who are not current members of the Brown community. If you are unsure, please email rock@brown.edu. Special Services for Faculty Borrowing Materials from Other Libraries Helpful Links easyBorrow ILLiad BorrowDirect All Brown University faculty, students, and staff who are in good standing with Library circulation are eligible to borrow materials through our interlibrary loan systems, which allow our Library to request materials from other libraries. Borrowing Books Not Available at the Brown Library 1. Search BruKnow to make sure we don’t have the item at Brown. 2. Search for the item in WorldCat using Brown’s easyBorrow service (using this colorful search box here, or any other place you find it on Library web pages). You may need to log in to complete your search. 3. Find the item you want, and click “Request this item.” If you’re off campus, or if you don’t see “Request this item,” make sure you log in to the VPN first. That way, we know who you are, and can request the item for you. “Request this Item” is in green text in the lower right. Click on the image to enlarge. 4. We’ll get the item for you using one of our interlibrary borrowing services, which usually takes 2-14 days. Loan lengths vary, and a return date will be printed on the band attached to the item you receive. » Track your easyBorrow Requests. » More about easyBorrow, including BorrowDirect and other interlibrary loan services. Access to Articles Not Available at the Brown Library We can usually get access to articles that we don’t have within our holdings. To make a request for an article, be sure to have as much citation information as you can, and then use our ILLiad system to request that the article be delivered to you as a PDF. Other Borrowing Options Visit Area and Consortial Partner Libraries Ocean State Libraries Brown patrons may borrow some material in person with a Brown ID at other academic libraries, including: RISD (Rhode Island School of Design) BorrowDirect libraries Reminders, Recalls, and Fines For most borrowed items, email courtesy notices are sent five days before an item is due and again after the item is due. After a lapse of 30 days, a replacement charge will be issued. Borrowed material is subject to recall by other Library patrons. In the case of a recall, you must return the material before the new due date to avoid overdue fines. Overdue Fines, Charges, and Penalties Standard replacement charges: $150 per item Overdue recall charge: $1 per day Overdue course reserve or equipment: $0.50 per hour Library privileges may be suspended for those with overdue recalls, or with substantial outstanding bills. Extreme or repeated problems may be reported to the appropriate dean or department chair. Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University