Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Service Cabot Media Studios Everything you need to produce high-quality audio and video recordings. Located on the lower level of Cabot Science Library, our two self-service media studios have everything you need to easily make high-quality audio and video recordings. When you're done recording, simply take your files with you on a USB drive. Things to know Media Studios are available for all members of the Harvard community Reservations are required; see details below Food and beverages are not allowed in the studios We ask that the person reserving the studio takes full responsibility for loss or damage to equipment, cables, cameras, furniture and all other items in the studio. Harvard Library will apply fines for damage detected and can be charged up to one month after the reservation is completed. Reserve a Studio Cabot Library offers two media studios: Media Studio A and Media Studio B. You can reserve either up to two hours. Before you book Complete a 30-minute training session available by appointment. Email cablib@fas.harvard.edu to schedule a time. Check the media studios calendar for booking availability. Make a reservation Email cablib@fas.harvard.edu at least one week in advance with the following information: Which studio you would like to book A short description of your project Preferred dates and times for use Setup requests and special technological needs Things to keep in mind Studios may be reserved for up to two hours at a time; reservations for consecutive, concurrent, or recurring meetings are not permitted. Get help on media projects Our staff of media specialists can help you in any stage of your project. From brainstorming ideas, to recording, producing, and editing, we're here to help. Ways to get help Office hours - Drop by during our help hours and one of our student media consultants can show you how to use our equipment or software, or help you with your own machine. Consultations - A consultation is the best way to get personalized help with a project or get more in-depth questions answered. Workshops & Classes - We regularly hold custom workshops for groups of three or more. Email us with your topic of interest and we'll start the planning process. Email Cabot Library Service Augmented and Virtual Reality Studio Explore different worlds with AR and VR through the HTC Vive Headset at Cabot Science Library. Service Lamont Multimedia Lab Your one-stop shop for media creation and data visualization, including editing and production for audio and video. Service Tech Loan Access to laptops, chargers, 360 degree cameras, VR equipment and more for members of the Harvard community. SEE ALL SERVICES & TOOLS Project Gallery From class projects, tutorials and audition tapes, to promos for a startup, LinkedIn portrait sessions and podcasts, students have created a variety of projects in the Cabot Media Studios. Check out some of the work that's been created here. Barry: The Making of American Icon Joan Roman produced a short film for a digital media course at the Harvard Extension School. "Barry" is a comeback story of the ages. Watch Barry Mr. Hankins Opus Podcast This podcast, recorded in the Media Studios by James Hankins, shares stories and interviews with young future education leaders at the Harvard Graduate School of Education. Listen to Mr. Hankins Opus Podcast Touchscape Thomas Kaue uses the Media Studios to create tutorials on how to learn American English. He explores “total physical response” — how touching the objects in response to a command can help you remember the words better. Watch Touchscape 2 Million Minutes Rosan Bishwakarma and Lucas Ward started this podcast project to find out more about students on campus and how they approach college. Listen to 2 Million Minutes Portrait Session Bibiana DaRosa held portrait photoshoot in the Media Studios to practice and experiment with new techniques. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.