Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Alumni Online Resources University alumni may access most of Princeton’s electronic resources from any campus library while visiting Princeton. Alumni have remote access to a selected suite of library-licensed electronic resources for personal, non-commercial use. See Online Resources for Alumni for details. Access is available from anywhere via login with TigerNet NetID and password. Giving Back Friends of the Princeton University Library Members of the Friends of the Princeton University Library make a vital contribution to the strength of the University’s collections, to the educational experience of its students, and to scholars and collectors throughout the world. Donation of Materials Princeton University Library welcomes gifts of books, manuscripts, and other materials that are deemed to be within the scope of its collection. Gifts are accepted which meet the collecting guidelines established to support the University's teaching and research or to add core material of scholarly research interest. We are deeply grateful to all of our donors, who for more than two and a half centuries have generously given books and other library materials to Princeton University. Get Help Ask a Librarian Email a Librarian Find Your Subject Librarian Phone Research Guides Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top