CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Staff For reference assistance, please see our frequently asked questions page detailing how to visit the RBML, instructions for ordering oral histories, fair use of our materials, and permissions. David Amel Olson is the Oral History Archivist for the Oral History Archives at Columbia University's Rare Book & Manuscript Library. Before working at Columbia, David worked with oral history collections documenting the history of the radical left and labor movements at New York University's Tamiment Library and Robert F. Wagner Labor Archives. David holds an MA from NYU in Archives and Public History and an MLIS from Long Island University's Palmer School. His introduction to archives was working at the Social Welfare History Archives, while pursing his BA in history from the University of Minnesota. David has also previously worked in state government and the legal sector. Chelsea Reil is a Project Archivist for the Oral History Archives at Columbia University's Rare Book & Manuscript Library. She is currently working on the Obama Presidency Oral History Project will process the Jeffrey H. Brodsky Oral History Collection. Before working at Columbia, she was Registrar at the New York Transit Museum, preserving the history of New York's public transit systems. She has also worked in the archives at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, Democracy Now!, the Center for Puerto Rican Studies (Centro de Estudios Puertorriqueños) at Hunter College, and Queens College. Chelsea holds an MLIS with a concentration in Archives from Queens College and a BA in Journalism and Spanish from Northeastern University. Dr. Kimberly Springer is Curator for Oral History for the Oral History Archives at Columbia University’s Rare Book & Manuscript Library and Co-Director of the Columbia Privacy Lab (c/privacy lab). For 2021-2022 she is Visiting Associate Professor of American Studies. She holds a master’s of information science, specializing in archives, preservation and social computing from the University of Michigan - Ann Arbor. She obtained her doctorate from the Women’s Studies Program at Emory University in Atlanta. Her research, praxis, and publication areas are archives, privacy, cultural studies, and social movements. Dr. Springer’s publications include Living for the Revolution, Black Feminist Organizations, 1968-1980 (Duke University Press, 2005), Still Lifting, Still Climbing: African-American Women’s Contemporary Activism (New York University Press, 1999), Stories of Oprah: the Oprahfication of American Culture (University of Mississippi Press, 2010) and articles in several journals and edited volumes. She has worked in public media and the government sector for National Public Radio, Michigan Radio, the Smithsonian Institution Archives and the U.S. State Department. Dr. Springer serves as an interviewer and archival consultant on the Obama Presidency Oral History Project, as well as on the boards of the Times' Up Measure Up research initiative and the Lakers Oral History Project. As one of the world’s leading centers for the practice and teaching of oral history, the Columbia University Center for Oral History Research (CCOHR) seeks to record unique life histories, document the central historical events and memories of our times, provide public programming, and teach and do research across the disciplines. CCOHR is housed at the Interdisciplinary Center for Innovative Theory and Empirics (INCITE). Oral historian Mary Marshall Clark directs CCOHR. INCITE/CCOHR and the Obama Foundation have partnered to produce the official oral history of the Barack Obama Presidency. Columbia University’s Oral History Master of Arts Program is the first program of its kind in the United States: a one-year interdisciplinary MA degree training students in oral history method and theory. Oral historian and educator Amy Starcheski directs the master's program. Sidebar Oral History Archives Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor East Butler Library 535 West 114th Street New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-5590 E-mail: oralhist@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Oral History Archives Links Rare Book & Manuscript Library home Create/access your Special Researcher Account Oral History FAQ Find oral history interviews Oral history news Current collecting areas Oral history research guide Digital oral history collections Oral history staff CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.