CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Making an Appointment: FAQ I want to make an appointment. What should I do first? Okay, I have five requests. How do I book an appointment? How do I change / cancel my appointment? What if I need to make a return appointment? I still need help! I want to make an appointment. What should I do first? Step 1: Log into your Special Collections Research Account or create a new account if you are a first-time user. Step 2: We ask that all users make requests first before booking an appointment. Please follow the instructions on the "New Request" page to request materials. PLEASE NOTE: Users may only request up to five collection items per day. Okay, I have five requests. How do I book an appointment? Step 3: Go to Request > Requests Needs Appointment Step 4: Click on the "Edit" button for the first request Step 5: Scroll to the bottm of the page, and you will need the "New Appointment" button. Click on that to bring up the Appointment Calendar. If there are no available appointments, the calendar will be blocked out in red. Currently, we are only taking appointments up to 90 days in advance. If there is an available appointment, it'll appear in white. Double click the white area to bring up the scheduling window. From here, you can select your start time and end time, based on availability. - The minimum appointment length is one hour - The maximum appointment length is three hours - If you need a full day appointment, please email us. Hit "Schedule" to book your appointment. Step 6: Hit "Submit Request" to save the changes. This will bring you back to the main account page. Step 7: You will now have to edit the other four requests to add them to your appointment. To do this from the main account page, click Actions > Edit Scroll to the bottom. You can now select your existing appointment from the drop down menu (or book a separate one). Hit submit. Huzzah, you made it. How do I change / cancel my appointment? If it's five business days before your appointment, you can change or cancel yourself. To do so, click on "Appointments" in the navy blue navigation bar. Then click on Actions. Cancelling will cancel your appointment and all the requests associated with that appointment. Clicking Edit Appointment will bring up the "Edit Appointment" window. From here, you can schedule a new appointment or select an existing appointment. Please note: the system will not allow you to book a new appointment outside of the five day minimum lead time, even if there is an opening available. Please contact us directly for assistance if your appointment is less than five days away. What if I need to make a return appointment? You'll have to go through this process, but since you can copy previous requests, it's a little easier. Step 1: Select an request in your Outstanding Requests list. Step 2: Choose Clone Request from the Actions drop-down menu. Step 3: Make a New Appointment by clicking the "New Appointment" button or select an existing Appointment from the dropdown menu. Step 4: Press Submit Request when you are done. Library staff will contact you to confirm your appointment and requests. I still need help! If you still need assistance, the best thing to do is contact us via email: rbml@columbia.edu Sidebar Rare Book & Manuscript Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor East Butler Library 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-5590 E-mail: rbml@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Create or Access Your Special Collections Research Account Rare Book & Manuscript Library About RBML Find Materials Plan Your Visit Orders & Services Exhibitions & Programs Collection Areas Digital Collections What We Collect Staff News Sign up to receive updates on RBML Events CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.