<iframe height="0" src="//www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5LBRZK" style="display:none;visibility:hidden" width="0"></iframe> Skip To Content University Libraries Services Services for Individuals with Disabilities Services for Individuals with Disabilities Texas A&M University Libraries is committed to providing access to library resources and services for all students, staff, faculty and other patrons of the Libraries. Using the Library Website Our goal is to make the Libraries' website accessible to all users. If you encounter problems or have suggestions please contact us for assistance. Physical Access to the Libraries For information about how to get to our campus libraries see our Directions/Maps/Parking pages which include information about disabled parking locations. For more information about disabled parking, contact Transportation Services at (979) 845-9700. Research Assistance & Technology AskUs Services Not sure where to start? AskUs Services is here to help you. Stop by the first floor service desk at any campus library to get started or call, chat, text, or email us for assistance. Quick Phone List Cushing Library & Archives: 979-845-1951 Medical Sciences Library: 979-845-7428 Policy Sciences & Economics Library: 979-862-3544 Sterling C. Evans Library & Annex: 979-845-3731 Business Library and Collaboration Commons: 979-845-2111 Online Research Help Texas A&M students, faculty, and staff have access to help online through our AskUs chat and text (SMS) services. Learning and Outreach Services For more information about our instruction program see our webpage or contact Learning and Outreach Services at 979-862-1060 or instruction@library.tamu.edu. ADA Computer Workstations in the Libraries Computer workstations, accessible by wheelchairs, are available in each library. They are also equipped with screen reader and magnification software. For more advanced workstations with adaptive technology, please contact Disability Resources in the Disability Resources Office at 979-845-1637 (Phone/TTY) or email to disability@tamu.edu. Access to Materials AskUs Services Not sure where to start? AskUs Services is here to help you. Stop by the first floor service desk at any campus library to get started or call, chat, text, or email us for assistance. Staff and librarians can help you search for books, electronic resources, course reserves items, and other material needed for your research and study needs. Use AskUs Services to retrieve library materials from the shelves for you. You can also designate an individual to serve as your proxy to locate and check out items on your behalf. Get It For Me Services Get It For Me includes document delivery of library materials and interlibrary loan services. All Texas A&M University students, faculty, and staff have access to this service. Through Get It For Me, you can: Have circulating material checked out and mailed to your home with a return delivery envelope for your convenience Request electronic copies (PDF files) of print materials available in the Libraries (e.g., articles, book chapters, etc.) Request document delivery of materials located at other campus libraries to the campus library of your choice Request interlibrary loan items from libraries beyond TAMU (national and international) For more information call (979) 845-5641 (services related to Evans Library, Business Library and Collaboration Commons, and the Policy Sciences & Economics Library) or (979) 845-7428 (services related to the Medical Sciences Library) Electronic Materials Access the Libraries’ electronic resources using the search feature on the Libraries’ homepage. Use the default Quick Search feature as an easy way to search across many of the Texas A&M University Libraries' most popular resources including: Access a variety of sources, such as books, movies, and articles all in a single results page Limit results in a variety of ways to get exactly what is needed, including peer-reviewed journals Search across the Libraries' catalogs ( LibCat and MSL), Texas A&M's OAKTrust institutional repository, and hundreds of scholarly databases like JSTOR, Academic Search Complete, and ScienceDirect Use additional search options provided to locate individual e-journals and databases to search within. (The library cannot guarantee that all third-party individual e-journals and databases will be ADA compatible and work with adaptive technology) Texas A&M University Disability Resources Disability Resources offers accommodations coordination, evaluation referral, disability-related information, assistive technology services, sign language interpreting and transcription services for academically related purposes. Disability Resources is located in Suite 122 of the Student Services Building (SSB) which is located between Rudder Plaza and the Coke Building, next to Simpson Drill Field. For more information please call 979-845-1637 or email disability@tamu.edu. For additional information, visit http://disability.tamu.edu. Additional Resources Texas A&M University ADA Contact Persons Texas A&M University Customers with Disabilities Transportation Services Disabled Parking Information Library Website Compliance & Privacy Information Support the Libraries AskUs anything at anytime. Chat with Us Call Us Text Us @ 979-256-1091 Email Us About the Libraries Quick Phone & Mailing List Directory | Find my Librarian Employment Diversity Matters Site Map | Site Search Follow Us Facebook Twitter You Tube Instagram howdy.tamu.edu Off-Campus Access Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Texas CREWS Comments Services Status