Skip to main content Contact Us My Accounts Give to UH Libraries University of Houston Libraries Search Borrow Research & Learning Spaces & Technology About Home > Spaces & Technology > Print & Scan Print & Scan A $7.50 printing credit is added to active Cougar Cards at the start of every semester. The account is charged for every side of a page that is printed. Black-and-white printing: 1.5 cents per side Color printing: 10 cents per side After all print credit is used, additional printing is charged to Cougar Card Shastabucks accounts. Your printing balance must be exactly $0.00 to charge to Cougar Card Add funds to your Shastabucks account with AccessUH The $7.50 printing credit can only be used for printing and copying. Printing credits do not roll over into the next semester. Print from your personal device Scanners in the library Library copy machines How to print in the library You will need your Cougar Card to print in the library. 1. Send your document to a printer All library computers are set-up to print the library. When selecting a printer to print from: Select “Library Black and White Printers” to print in black-and-white Select “Library Color Printers” to print in color 2. Release the print job Locate any printing station after sending your document to print. You can release your job from any print station in the library Black-and-white jobs can only be released at black-and-white stations Color jobs can only be released at color stations After locating a printing station: Enter your CougarNet username and password (you must do this step first) Swipe your Cougar Card when asked A list of your pending print jobs will appear, along with your remaining printing credit balance Select the job(s) that you want to print, and select “Print” Please remain at the printer until all your jobs have completed Printing issues? If there is a problem while printing (paper jams, out of toner, etc.), our staff are able to reprint your job for you, without any extra charge to your account. We will not reprint or give refunds to user errors (wrong page printed, etc.). Still have questions? Contact us or visit any service desk for help. Copyright notice The copyright law of the United States (Title 17, United States Code) governs the making of photocopies or other reproductions of copyrighted materials. Libraries and archives are authorized to create a photocopy or other reproduction. Under the conditions of the law, the photocopy or reproduction is not to be “used for any purpose other than private study, scholarship, or research.” If you make a request or later use a photocopy or reproduction for purposes beyond “fair use,” you may be liable for copyright infringement. We reserve the right to accept a copy request if we judge that the request would involve violation of copyright law. Spaces Computer Labs 24 Hour Lounge Group Study Rooms Health Sciences Library Group Rooms Individual Study Carrels Faculty Study Spaces Makerspace Digital Research Commons Multimedia Studio Request studio time Elizabeth D. Rockwell Pavilion Reserve the Elizabeth D Rockwell Pavilion Technology Accessibility Services Accessibility Help Form Use of Assistive Technology Computers Available Software Virtual Software Equipment for Checkout Art Supplies for Checkout Print & Scan Print from your personal device Copiers Scanners 3D Printing Self-Service Pickup Lockers Technology Consultations 4333 University Drive Houston, TX 77204-2000 (713) 743-1050 Privacy Policy Hours Employment Directory Give Us Feedback Contact Us Give to UH Libraries Libraries & Collections Maps & Directions UH Libraries News Site Search Site Map Search Borrow Research & Learning Spaces & Technology About UH Home facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Please ensure Javascript is enabled for purposes of website accessibility