CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee E-Images Resources marked with this symbol are restricted to Columbia affiliates. Columbia Image Bank The Columbia Image Bank is available as a hosted collected in ARTstor. The Image Bank covers a broad range of subjects, cultures and periods. Users may access outstanding examples of the visual arts and material culture from the world's major collections; stills of performance pieces; and photographs, drawings and renderings of architecture and sites. To search the Image Bank collection in ARTstor, click Go on the ARTstor homepage then click Columbia University Image Bank under Institutional Collections on the Welcome page. Or search across all collections: a total of over one million images. Columbia University Digital Collections Bunraku Collection (Japanese Puppet Theater) Over 12,500 digitized slides and 7,000 photographs from the Barbara Curtis Adachi Bunraku Collection, C.V. Starr East Asian Library. Chinese Paper Gods Woodblock prints of Chinese household gods from the Anne S. Goodrich collection, C.V. Starr East Asian Library. Digital Scriptorium Image database of medieval and renaissance manuscripts that unites scattered resources from many institutions. Imperial Corps of Pages Photographs and other materials once belonging to the Russian Imperial family and the Imperial Corps of Pages, from the Rare Book & Manuscript Library's Bakhmeteff Archive. Joseph Urban Papers: New York Series Sketches, drawings and set models of New York theater and opera productions created from 1914 to 1933, from the Rare Book & Manuscript Library. New York Real Estate Brochure Collection Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library's collection documenting residential and commercial real estate development in the five boroughs of New York and outlying vicinities from the 1920s to the 1970s. Columbia University Libraries' Digital Collections External Image Databases American Memory A rich collection of images and full-text documents relating to U.S. history and culture from the Library of Congress. ARTstor Over one million digital images covering the fields of architecture, painting, sculpture, photography, decorative arts, design, and other forms of visual culture. CAMIO Catalog of Art Museum Image Online is a growing collection documenting works of art from around the world, representing the collections of prominent museums. Catena: the Digital Archive of Historic Gardens and Landscapes Historic and contemporary images focusing on the villa, an important landscape type in garden history Corpus Vasorum Antiquorum: An Illustrated Catalog Catalog of ancient Greek and Roman vases coordinated by the Beazley Archive Oxford Art Online Gateway through which users can access Grove Art Online, The Oxford Dictionary of Art, and other resources. Includes image partnerships with international museums and artists. . NYPL Digital Gallery Images from primary sources and printed rarities in the collections of The New York Public Library Photographic Views of New York City, 1870s-1970s Archival photos from the collections of New York Public Library. More Image Databases More Databases of Maps and Atlases Sidebar CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.