Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback The Anne S.K. Brown Military Collection: Introduction The Anne S. K. Brown Military Collection is the foremost American collection of material devoted to the history and iconography of soldiers and soldiering, and is one of the world’s largest collections devoted to the study of military and naval uniforms. It was formed over a period of 40 years by the late Mrs. John Nicholas Brown (1906-1985) of Providence and is still growing. It contains approximately 14,000 printed books, 18,000 albums, sketchbooks, scrapbooks, and portfolios, (containing thousands of prints and drawings), and over 15,000 individual prints, drawings, and water-colors as well as a collection of 6,000 miniature lead soldiers. Formerly in the Brown family residence (the Nightingale-Brown House, 1791), the entire collection (which was probably the largest private military collection in the world), was presented to Brown University and transferred to Special Collections located in the John Hay Library in 1982. Collection Links Back to the main page Introduction The Collection Staff Exhibitions Mazansky Sword Collection Other military collections Mrs. John Nicholas Brown While the original emphasis or focus of the collection was the history and illustration of world military and naval uniforms from the 16th century to the present, the collection also now contains a vast amount of material on military and naval history, military and naval arts, tactics and drill, wars, campaigns, biography, portraiture, and caricature. There are also sections on early military science, early travel, weaponry, heraldry, orders, medals and decorations, flags, general costume, military artists, and royalty and ceremony. It contains manuscripts, original photographs, posters, illustrated sheet music, postcards and cigarette cards, paper soldiers, and other graphic documentation, and is used by publishers, scholars, museums, television and filmmakers. The collection itself has been the subject of various articles and books. Today it is concerned with all aspects of military and naval history, particularly covering the period circa 1500-1945. Collection Development Policy Overview of the Military Collection A. The Anne S. K. Brown Military Collection contains more than 30,000 books, serials, and related items such as albums, sketchbooks, scrapbooks, manuscripts, print portfolios, and sheet music covers, along with over 15,000 individual prints, drawings, paintings, watercolors, and photographs. In addition, there are over 6,000 miniature toy soldiers (additional figures are on display at the Annmary Brown Memorial along with the Mazansky Sword Collection). B. The scope of the Military Collection is international although it is primarily Euro-centric; there are extensive holdings on the United States, and smaller sections on Asia, Africa, and Latin America. In particular, France, Great Britain, Germany and German States, Austria, and Russia are well represented. Within each country section are books on general history, military, naval and regimental history, along with volumes on drill, tactics, regulations, caricature and humor, army lists, yearbooks and directories, some bound newspapers, military biography, and uniforms. There are some general world and Europe sections including holdings on the World Wars. C. The chronological span of the Military Collection lies in the period circa 1500-1945, with the main emphasis being on the 18th and 19th centuries. The collection is not strong in classical or early medieval warfare, nor the era of the Cold War. Particular strengths include the Napoleonic Wars, the wars and revolutions of the 19th century, campaigns of the British Army, the American Civil War, and World War One. The organization and arrangement of the French and British armies, and the armies of the German states and Austria from early times are well covered. D. Reference sections include books on early travel, heraldry and flags, orders, medals and decorations, general and religious costume, weaponry, and military artists. A full range of serials is subscribed to. E. A large section is devoted to festival and ceremony books especially covering world royalty. F. The graphics collection consists of approximately 15,000 individual prints (wood and steel engravings, aquatints, mezzotints, lithographs, chromolithographs, photogravures, etc.), watercolors, pencil sketches, and a few oil paintings. Original photographs are also included. The images are arranged by country and subdivided into battle and campaign scenes, caricatures, genre scenes, naval, portraits, and uniforms. Many of these images are now available in the digital archive. Collection Needs 1. The primary strength of the Military Collection is the illustrative material depicting the soldier in peace and war, and to a lesser extent, the sailor, from all periods and all nations. Much of this is unique original artwork. Therefore, the acquisition of pictures and illustrated monographs is actively pursued. 2. The textual material such as campaign and regimental histories, army organization, biography, etc., is important and particular items are acquired to fill in gaps. The acquisitions of modern publications and serials which are descriptive, bibliographical, reference, and illustrative of armies (and to a lesser extent navies), and uniforms is absolutely essential. 3. Particular areas that are currently being developed are World War One and Two, with the focus being mainly on graphical representation of both conflicts; original drawings, watercolors, or albums of uniforms; and original artwork representing 18th and 19th century campaigns. Material relating to military panoramas, illustrated manuscripts, and photographs are sought. User Profile: The Military Collection provides visual material primarily to scholars, publishers, museums, television and film. Many requests come from textbook and magazine publishers worldwide. While the majority of requests come via email, others still come through traditional methods such as by letter, phone, or fax. Inter-library loan requests are occasionally received, but as the material in the collection is non-circulating outside the building, few if any books are sent out. However, digital scans, photocopies, and microfilming can be provided. Many personal visitors come to the John Hay Library to undertake research, and can access the holdings by using the online catalog or searching the Military Collection card catalog. Arrangement of the Military Collection: Gallery The public aspect of the Military Collection is the Main Gallery situated on the third floor of the John Hay Library. This contains a permanent display of approximately 6,000 miniature toy soldiers. Mostly 54mm in size, major manufacturers are represented including Britains, Heyde, and Mignot. There are also figures made by Stadden, John Hill Company, Vertuni, and Erikson. Also on display are larger figures made in plaster by Howard Willets, and several porcelain figurines and flats. Hanging on the walls is a small collection of oil paintings and prints depicting military portraits, war scenes, and posters. Stacks Items in the Stacks are arranged either by Library of Congress call number (LCCN), or as ‘No Call Number.’ Books with no call numbers are arranged by country/continent beginning with Africa and ending with the United States. The main LCCN categories represented in the Military Collection are as follows: Category LC Class: History: General; History: Europe 1 D-DJ History: Eastern Europe DJK-DK History: Europe 2 DL-DR History: Asia DS History: Africa, Australasia DT-DU History: America E-F Costume GT Fine Arts N Military Science U-UH Naval Science V-VM Bibliography Z In addition, the Military Collection stacks house numerous albums, sketchbooks, scrapbooks, portfolios, catalogs, manuscript boxes, paper soldiers and other ephemera, microfilms, and videotapes. Print Room Items in the Print Room are arranged by country/continent beginning with Africa and ending with the United States. The graphics are sub-arranged by size [in archival boxes]: Folio (f), Medium Folio (mf), Small Folio (sf); [on shelves] Large Folio (lf); Giant Folio (gf); [in map drawers] Elephant Folio (ef). Each image has its own unique alphanumeric call number. For example, a medium folio print depicting a British battle that was fought in 1704 would be denoted: GB-B1704mf-1. In addition, there are a number of posters from World War One and Two, as well as sheet music covers depicting uniforms and military scenes. Photographs are housed in their own boxes. Many of the items in the print room are now available in the digital archive. Bopp Seminar Room The Bopp Seminar, when completed, will be available for classes, seminars, and meetings. Display cases will exhibit items primarily from the Military Collection. Catalog The Military Collection has its own unique card catalog that is still active, although new cards have not been added since the early 1990’s (all material entering the collection since then has been cataloged using LC standards and can be located in the online catalog). The card catalog is arranged by artist, title, publisher, and subject, and each card refers one to the master catalog of books including albums, portfolios, etc., and graphics. There is also a separate master catalog for sheet music covers, manuscripts, and serials. Serials The Military Collection holds subscriptions to the following journals: Carnet de la Sabretache The Flag Bulletin The Irish Sword Bulletin of the Military Historical Society Journal of the Society for Army Historical Research Military Collector and Historian Neptunia Revue Historique de l’Armée War in History Zeitschrift für Heereskunde A number of other titles are taken as gifts. Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University