CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Special Collections PLEASE NOTE: DURING THE FALL TERM OF 2021 STARR SPECIAL COLLECTIONS WILL BE OPEN BY APPOINTMENT FOR CURRENT COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF ONLY. About our collection Columbia University's C.V. Starr East Asian Library owns many rare and unique materials, including rare books, and archives in Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Tibetan, and Western languages, as well as non-print collections. These non-circulating materials are available for use, by appointment, in our Special Collections Reading Room by both CU students, faculty, and staff, as well as non-affiliates. For more detailed information about the various collections see the following pages: Chinese Rare Books & Special Collections Japanese Rare Books & Special Collections Korean Rare Books & Special Collections Tibetan Rare Books & Special Collections appointment procedure First-time users will need to first register a SPECIAL COLLECTIONS RESEARCH ACCOUNT. If you already have an account, you can access it through the same link. Since substantial portions of our Special Collections are stored offsite, we ask that you make your appointment, and place your requests at least one (1) week ahead of your visit to ensure that the required material will be available. Requests for rare and special books and non-print materials should be placed through the request button in CLIO, the online catalog. You will find the request button in the grey sidebar in individual bibliographic records. Requests for archival material should be placed through the Archival Collections Portal. Please note that, at this time, not all finding aids in the archival portal have an active request function yet. In those cases, please use the Manual Request link at the bottom of the request options under the New Request tab in your Special Collections Research Account. Upon submitting your request a log-in link will appear. Once logged-in you will see a Request Details form. Scroll down and, toward the bottom Choose A Site, then click on New Appointment. A calendar with available hours will appear where you can select date and time for your appointment. Once you have created an appointment you can then Submit Request to complete the procedure. If you already have an appointment, but wish to add an item to that appointment, you will see a drop-down menu where you can select the appointment for which you wish to request the item. Please note that you must choose the owning library in the Choose A Site drop-down. Special Collections material are not moved between libraries. If, for any reason, you have trouble requesting material, please contact us at starr-spec@library.columbia.edu. We will be happy to mediate. Our storage space is limited, so we ask that you do not request more material than you anticipate being able to use during your visit. on-site use At this time, only current Columbia University students, faculty, and staff may make in-person appointments for using our special collections. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, we are at present unable to welcome alumni or any other visitors to our library. Special Collections material can be used by appointment only, under supervision of a librarian, and only in the Special Collections Reading Room during scheduled hours (see below). Users are asked to follow the below instructions designed to optimize research while protecting and preserving the Special Collections materials. Wash your hands before coming to the Special Collections Reading Room, and handle the materials with extreme care; many are fragile. Only pencils and electronic devices (preferred) may be used for note-taking. Electrical outlets and wireless access are available. Please leave all other personal belongings with the librarian on duty. Pens and indelible markers are NOT permitted. Food and drink are NOT permitted. Cell phone conversations are NOT permitted. Photography in the Reading Room Non-flash photography with a camera, phone, or tablet is allowed, for personal research purposes only, within the limits of U.S. copyright law and provided it will not damage collection materials. Tripods, flash, and additional lighting is not permitted. Personal copiers and scanners are not permitted. reproductions The Preservation & Digital Conversion Division of Columbia University Libraries (CUL) provides high-resolution digital reproductions and original or archival time-based media conversion services for purposes of supporting teaching, research, and other scholarship. Small quantities (no more than 50 pages per user, per semester) of low-resolution digital reproductions are also provided to our users to support research and scholarship, as staff availability allows, as long as the staff determines that copying will not harm the original document(s) or violate copyright law. Contact us at starr-spec@library.columbia.edu for more information. For additional information on copyright and fair use issues, please visit the web site of the CUL Copyright Advisory Office. For more information on publication policies for the Libraries in general, please see: Columbia University Libraries Publication and Digital Reproduction Policy and Procedures hours SEMESTER HOURS: Monday and Friday, 2:00-4:00 PM Tuesday-Thursday, 10:00 AM-12:00 PM AND 2:00-4:00 PM SUMMER/INTERSESSION HOURS: Monday, Wednesday, Friday, 2:00-4:00 PM Tuesday and Thursday, 10:00 AM-12:00 PM Sidebar C.V. Starr East Asian Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 300 Kent Hall 1140 Amsterdam Ave M.C. 3901 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-4318 E-mail: starr@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » C. V. Starr East Asian Library Links About Starr Library Directions Floorplans iPod Library Tours Staff Starr Library Blog Ask a Librarian CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.