Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Collections John Lindquist Dance Photographs Modern dance photographs from the nation’s longest-running international dance festival Donald McKayle & Company in "Rainbow ‘Round My Shoulder," 1961. Photograph by John Lindquist. View Details. © Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library The John Lindquist Collection documents over four decades of performances at Jacob’s Pillow, the pioneering dance festival founded by dancer-choreographer Ted Shawn in Becket, Massachusetts in 1933. Overview 7,500 black and white photographs dating from 1917–1984 2,800 contact sheets, negatives, and 16mm films Over 200 letters and telegrams from Ted Shawn to photographer John Lindquist Over 13,000 35mm Kodachrome slides were recently digitized; most have never been reproduced or exhibited. In addition to photographs, the collection contains Lindquist’s personal and professional papers, performance programs, publicity materials, and other documentation of the history of Jacob’s Pillow. The Harvard Theatre Collection acquired the archive in 1981 along with Lindquist's copyright. Photographs by Lindquist can also be found in the Ambrose DuBek Dance Photograph Collection and the Jacob’s Pillow Archives. History Maria Tallchief and Peter Van Dyk, 1965. Photograph by John Lindquist. © Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library John Lindquist (1890–1980) began photographing Ted Shawn and His Men Dancers in 1938. He spent the next 42 summers as staff photographer for the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival. In this role, he photographed many of the most innovative dancers of the mid-20th century as well as traditional dancers from cultures around the world. Among the hundreds of performances he photographed are premieres by both established and emerging choreographers of his day, including Alvin Ailey, Merce Cunningham, Anton Dolin, Agnes de Mille, Robert Joffrey, Pearl Lang, and Anna Sokolow. Diversity During Lindquist’s tenure, Jacob’s Pillow introduced American audiences to artists of many nationalities and ethnicities and to a full range of dance styles. Dancers from China, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Japan, Mexico, Samoa, and a host of other countries performed on joint programs, receiving equal billing with European and American artists. Artists of the African Diaspora and other performers of color appear frequently in the collection. Among them are Alvin Ailey, Talley Beatty, Bhaskar Roy Chowdhury, Jean Léon Destiné, Ram Gopal, Geoffrey Holder, Carmen de Lavallade, José Limón, Donald McKayle and Company, Arthur Mitchell and Dance Theatre of Harlem, Charles Moore, Pearl Primus, Clay Taliaferro, Maria Tallchief, James Truitte, Myrna White, Billy Wilson, and many others. Related Resources Dance of the African Diaspora, Jacob’s Pillow Dance Interactive. Accessing These Materials All material is available for use in Houghton Library’s reading room. Digital repr Reproductions and Permissions Publishable-quality images are available upon request. Researchers must also notify the library before reproducing photographs by John Lindquist. When contacting us, please reference the John Lindquist Collection and the image’s call number. Browse Finding Aid Contact Houghton Library email: Email Phone number 617-495-2440 Related Collections Collection Harvard Theatre Collection Collection Harvard Theatre Collection Founded in 1901, the Harvard Theatre Collection stands as one of the oldest and largest performing arts collections in the world. Collection Angus McBean Photographic Archive Collection Angus McBean Photographic Archive Angus McBean's iconic portraits of actors and entertainers are among the most complete visual records of the British stage from the 1930s through the 1960s. Collection Alix Jeffry Photographs Collection Alix Jeffry Photographs A trove of images from the early years of Off Broadway theater How To Access Materials at Houghton Library Houghton is home to rare books and manuscripts, literary and performing arts archives, and more. Here's how to access these primary source materials. How To Use Harvard Library's Special Collections and Archives Open to all, these unique materials can take you to places you never expected. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.