Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Undergraduate Fellowship Program John Hay Library This summer, try something new: Apply for a John Hay Library Undergraduate Fellowship. The John Hay Library Undergraduate Fellowship Program supports original research using the collections at the John Hay Library. Over eight weeks in the summer, a cohort of students will build research skills using primary sources to develop an original project. Projects can take the form of a traditional research paper, or may be creative or digital in format, but all projects must make primary and substantive use of the rare books, manuscripts, artwork, and/or other objects at the Library. Projects do not have to be completed by the end of the summer; the fellowship can serve as a start for a senior thesis or can be a further exploration of work begun during a course, but fellows should be prepared to synthesize the results of their research at a showcase at the end of the program. Fellows work primarily in the Special Collections Reading Room, with workshops related to book history and other topics that fit the fellows’ interests, along with possible field trips. If physical access to the Library is not possible, materials will be made available digitally; students may choose to participate in person (pandemic-permitting) or remotely. In addition to their projects, fellows are asked to submit a reflection on their experience at the end of the fellowship, as well as present their research at the fellowship program showcase in early fall. Each fellow will receive a stipend of $4,000 to cover housing and other expenses. Project-related expenses can also be supported by the Library. More information on collections at the John Hay Library is available through our online collections listing. 2022 Fellowship Program The 2022 program will run from June 6 – July 29, 2022. Fellows are expected to be on campus for the majority of the program, and to spend approximately 20 hours per week on fellowship-related work. Schedules can be flexible to accommodate classes and other obligations. The 2022 cohort will be comprised of six fellows: Daniel G. Siegel Fellow: Research on any topic relating to American literature or history, using materials in the Hay’s collections Racial Justice Fellow: Underwritten by the Douglas W. Squires ’73 Strategic Collections Fund, which supports academic programs that advance scholarship on questions of race and social justice, this fellowship supports research on related topics within Hay collections. Brown University History Fellow: Research on any topic relating to the history of Brown University Military and Society Fellow: Research on any topic relating to the social, political, economic, and cultural influence of world militaries during war and peace, using materials in the Anne S.K. Brown Military Collection Two fellows working on any topic relating to materials in the Hay’s collections More information on collections at the John Hay Library can be found on Fields of Hay, the Library’s collection listing, and the Hay’s collecting policy, as well as by searching BruKnow, where searches can be limited to materials at the Hay. Applicants are encouraged to think beyond individual collections, and to consider projects that explore themes found within multiple areas. Interested students are encouraged, but not required, to set up a consultation with the program facilitator, Heather Cole. Eligibility The program is open to all Brown first years, sophomores, and juniors currently enrolled in a degree program, as well as seniors graduating in fall 2022. Students on leave during the 2021–2022 academic year are ineligible to apply. Applying Applications for the 2022 cohort are due on March 4. Information for Recommenders Each application should be accompanied by at least one letter of recommendation that speaks to the quality of the applicant’s work and how the applicant might contribute to the fellowship cohort. Letters can be sent by email to Heather Cole. 2021 Fellows Yara Doumani ’22 Racial Justice Fellow “‘In Sisterhood I Will Remain Strong’: Pan-Tribal and Transnational Indigenous Women’s Activisms and Representations, 1970s-1980s” Audrey Buhain ’22 Daniel G. Siegel ’57 Undergraduate Fellowship “Theories and Poetics of War in U.S. Imperialism” Deb Marini ‘22.5 Brown University History fellowship “Lincolniana, Whiteness, and the Weaponization of an ‘Exhaustive’ Archive.” Lillian Pickett ’22 “Defining Gendered Violence: Tracing Feminist Perspectives on the Carceral State in Late 20th Century Rhode Island” Dylan Lewis ’22 “Miracles in the Hue of your Flesh: On Building a Black Magical Praxis” 2020 Fellows Danielle Emerson ’21 Daniel G. Siegel ’57 Fellow Danielle’s project, “Exploring Past and Contemporary Indigenous/Native Storytelling,” will delve into works by Native and Indigenous peoples in our collections. Danielle, an Education and Literary Arts dual concentrator, hopes to produce a podcast series in which she will explore and contextualize the materials she finds. Mady Slater ‘20.5 Mady is a Modern Culture and Media concentrator. Her project, “Queerness, Pleasure, and Play,” will explore personal ads and correspondence in the On our backs archive, along with other archives relating to queer experiences, performance, and spaces, and will create a video game that maps the aesthetic politics of those conversations onto modern equivalents such as dating apps. Matthew Marciello ’21 An American Studies and Gender and Sexuality Studies dual concentrator, Matthew will be working with the Anne Fausto-Sterling Papers as a lens into the rise of the intersex rights movement in the 1990s and early 2000s. He hopes to closely examine the extensive correspondence found in the collection to analyze the role of Fausto-Sterling’s article “The Five Sexes” and her writing overall in the beginnings of the intersex rights movement. He further hopes to synthesize the multitude of activist and scholarly actors that propelled the movement forward, especially Cheryl Chase, the founder of the Intersex Society of North America. The outcome of this work will be chapter 2 of his in-progress thesis, which is tentatively titled, “From Hermaphrodites with Attitude to #EndIntersexSurgery: Intersex Activism, Resistance, and Critique of Intersex Genital Surgery.” Kanha Prasad ’21 and Diego Rodriguez ’21 Kanha, a History concentrator, and Diego, a Visual Arts concentrator, will work together on a project titled “Students, Decolonization and the Curriculum: 1968-present” that will examine the development of the Open Curriculum through the lens of the concurrent radical student movements for diversity and inclusion and global decolonial movements. 2019–2020 Fellow Madeline Greenberg ’21 Using the Katherine Chase Sprague Papers as foundational materials, Madeline plans to create a timeline of the Chase family’s history specifically focused on Katherine Chase Sprague and Governor William Sprague. To situate the narratives and choices within the timeline, further research will include the societal expectations and customs of the late 1800s surrounding the Providence area. Additional research regarding the Civil War, the abolitionist movement, and the battles surrounding the Providence, Cincinnati, and New York City areas will also be necessary as the Chases were a highly politicized family involved in the civil discourse of their time. Once a narrative is established, Madeline intends to write a history play based on the information that she has found within the Hay. The play will ask how relatable such histories can be to a modern audience, how best to normalize actions that were taken within a very different societal context, and to what degree adaptations grant individuals relevance. The researched materials will dictate to a large degree the setting, plot, and characters seen within the script. The play will be staged in Fall 2020. 2019 Fellows Finch Collins ’21 “(Trans)formative Fandom: Trans Studies, Problematic Authors, and Reclamation” Working with the Caitlin Kiernan papers and the gay pulp fiction collection, Finch will investigate negotiations of queer identity through fandom, and will examine the extent that fandom can serve as a site of reclamation and identity creation, and how utopian thinking on fandom’s reclamatory value might fall short; he hopes to produce a 40-50 page paper as a first step toward an honors thesis. Evan Kindler ’20 “The John Birch Society in the Trump Era” Evan hopes to examine Trumpism’s roots in Bircherism, examining how this far-right extremist group’s agenda has been reflected in Trump’s policies and rhetoric, and will produce a paper and possibly a creative work. Evan hopes to submit his paper to an academic journal. Alan Mendoza Sosa ’20 “Nightsky’s Glitter” Alan will create an experimental queer poetry chapbook, inspired by and incorporating elements from the gay pulp fiction collection, the Scott O’Hara papers, the Katzoff Collection, and the Smith magic collection. The book will explore themes of gender, sexuality, embodiment, and language, while questioning queer media representation, the social distinction between “high” and “low” literature, and between “academic” and “popular” culture. Special Collections Links Home Page Visiting Willis Reading Room Gildor Family Special Collections Reading Room Using Special Collections Register for Access Forms Special Collections Hours Permissions & Publication Reproduction Services Collections A – Z Collection Policy Finding Aids and Catalogs History of Special Collections Center for Digital Scholarship Exhibitions Friends of the Library News FAQ People University Archives Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University