CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Alma Mater: Early History Select a Columbia History Resource Alma Mater Alumni Registers Booklets, Guides & Campus Viewbooks Coeducation at Columbia Honors & Prizes Media Online Exhibits President Profiles Publications Timelines & Histories University Documents Web Archives Columbia History Resources Most graduates think fondly of their Alma Mater. But Alma Mater means something more to Columbia students and graduates. Since the founding of King’s College in 1754, she has served as a human representation of the university’s mission. With the 1903 unveiling of Daniel Chester French’s bronze statue of the figure, Alma Mater became the school’s ambassador and most familiar symbol, greeting the thousands of visitors that entered the university’s gates. Perched on the steps of Low Library, the statue of Alma Mater bore witness to a century of rapid change on Columbia’s campus. Yet Alma Mater has history much older than Columbia University itself. One can trace the term Alma Mater back to eleventh century Europe. Founded in 1088, the University of Bologna is considered to be the oldest western university. Its motto, “Alma Mater Studiorum,” (translated: “nourishing mother of studies”), is the first known use of the term in reference to the university from which one graduated. Early History Erecting the Statue In the 20th Century Lore and Pranks In the 21st Century Bibliography When Samuel Johnson helped found King’s College in 1754, the term “alma mater” must have been well known to him. The first president of the university liked the concept of a nourishing mother of studies so much that he incorporated it into the school’s original seal, which he designed. Johnson gave Alma Mater a human form in his design for the seal. In the minutes of their 1755 meeting, the Trustees described Johnson’s seal in detail: The College is represented by a Lady sitting in a Throne or Chair of State, with several children at her knees to represent the Pupils…One of them She takes by the hand with her left hand expressing her benevolent design of Conducting them to True Wisdom and Virtue…Out of her Mouth over her left Shoulder, goes a label with these words in Hebrew Letters - God is my Light… Original drawing of King's College Seal Columbia University Seal Johnson’s depiction of Alma Mater reflected common eighteenth century ideals about womanhood, and motherhood in particular. As the century progressed colonials, and later, Americans, envisioned a new role for white women. “Republican Mothers” performed an essential civic duty for their country by nurturing and educating virtuous young sons who would become the future political and academic leaders of the colonies (and, later, the young country). Johnson’s seal reflected this eighteenth-century reverence of mothers’ fundamental educative power. This image of Alma Mater continued to resonate after the Revolution when the college reopened in 1784; the seal remained exactly the same except for the replacement of “King’s College” with its new name, “Columbia College.” Content written by Julie Golia, PhD 2010 << Columbia History Resources Erecting the Alma Mater Statue >> Sidebar Columbia University Archives Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor Butler Library 535 West 114th St. M.C. 1127 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-3786 E-mail: uarchives@columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Create or Access Your Special Collections Research Account Columbia University Archives About the University Archives Research & Access Use Policies & Services Collection Overview Columbia History Resources University Archives Research Guides Donating Materials Managing University Records Rare Book & Manuscript Library RBML News CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.