CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Directions The Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library occupies most of the seventh floor of Dodge Hall, north of College Walk at Broadway. From College Walk (the pedestrian boulevard corresponding to West 116th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam Ave.), go up the stairs in front of Alma Mater to Low Plaza, and then up the stairs from Low Plaza to the west, to the upper campus. Dodge Hall will be on your left. When you enter from the upper campus, you will be on the third floor, with the elevators directly in front of you. Take the elevator to the seventh floor. Sidebar Music & Arts Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 701 Dodge Hall 2960 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-4711 E-mail: music@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Music & Arts Library Links About Staff Floorplan Directions Digital Music Lab Music Reserves FAQ Ask a Librarian CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.