CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Timelines & Histories Select a Columbia History Resource Alma Mater Alumni Registers Booklets, Guides & Campus Viewbooks Coeducation at Columbia Honors & Prizes Media Online Exhibits President Profiles Publications Timelines & Histories University Documents Web Archives Columbia History Resources The following is only a selection of websites and documents available online which can help you learn about the history of the University. You can find the original paper copies and additional resources by searching in the library's online catalog CLIO. Blogs | Podcasts | Profiles | Timelines | Oral Histories | Histories Blogs Sun Dial with South Field in the background, 1920s. RBML News The Rare Book and Manuscript Library's news blog features articles about the collections, users and staff members of the RBML, including those focused on Columbia University history and University Archives holdings. Women in the Stacks The RBML's Librarian for Rare Books & Bibliographic Services Jane Siegal maintains a blog devoted to the women of the Columbia University Libraries and other aspects of Columbia University Library history. Gotham : A Blog for Scholars of New York City History The Gotham Center for New York City History is a research and public education institution, sponsored by The Graduate Center, CUNY. The blog has featured articles on the history of Columbia's football team and the Columbia University and Slavery project among many other related topics. Podcasts The Dean's Table Fredrick Harris, Dean of Social Sciences and Professor of Political Science at Columbia University, hosts a podcast series featuring the scholarship, lives, and imagination of the social scientists at Columbia University. Guests have included History Professor Frank Guridy, Economics Professor Miguel Urquiola, and Sociology Professor Jennifer Lee. Walking Tour of Campus Take a tour of the campus with Andrew Dolkart, professor of architectural history at Columbia's School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation and the author of an award-winning history of Morningside Heights, Morningside Heights: A History of Its Architecture and Development. Prof. Dolkart starts the tour from the Visitors Center in Low Library and leads you around the main campus buildings: Low Library, Lewisohn, Earl, Mathematics, Havermeyer, Avery, Uris, etc. He shares both the history of the University and the architectural features of the buildings. Columbia Libraries Podcasts The Columbia University Libraries hosts a number of podcasts on Columbia-related topics such as the Contemporary Civilization curriculum on the course’s centennial and Material Culture on unique items from the Libraries’ archives and Rare Books and Manuscript collections. The Ear From the University’s student newspaper’s magazine, The Eye, catch up on their podcasts, The Ear, dedicated to documenting, detailing, and excavating Columbia’s history. Episodes have covered the history of Fall Break, former campus features such as The Grove, and a beloved campus mascot, Matilda the Harlem Goat. The Bowery Boys This podcast covers the history of New York City and devoted an episode to the history of the University, Movin’ on Up: From King’s College to Columbia University. The University is also featured in other related content on their site. Profiles Columbians Ahead of their Time Created during Columbia's 250th Anniversary, this website features profiles of former students, professors and many others associated with Columbia. Columbia 250 celebrated the people and ideas associated with Columbia that have shaped the world and how we see it. Notable Columbians The Columbia Celebrate Black History and Culture site includes a set of profiles of Notable Columbians. The list of "Great Columbians Who Made a Difference" includes WPA artist Charles H. Ashton (CC 1929, TC 1931), first African American U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder (CC 1973, Law 1976) and first African American woman licensed to practice architecture in New York City Norma Sklarek (Arch 1950) among others. Timelines Postcard of the Sun Dial, 1920s. Links to a series of informative timelines created in 2004 for Columbia's 250th anniversary website: Columbia Through Time Women at Columbia Timeline Columbia College Student Life Timeline Columbia University and the City of New York Timeline Columbia and Higher Learning in America Timeline Timeline of Columbia Engineering during their 150th anniversary: Timeline from 1864 to 2014 Columbia Engineering 150 History of the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science Timeline of the Columbia Business School during their centennial celebration: Business School Timeline [Archived 2017] Columbia Business School Centennial [Archived 2017] Timeline of the Core Curriculum: History of the Core Timeline created by the Health Sciences Library Archives & Special Collections: The Health Sciences at Columbia University: A Timeline Timeline created by staff at Columbia College: Columbia College Timeline Put together by Frank da Cruz, this site and photo gallery document the history of computing at Columbia University: Columbia University Computing History Other timelines: Department of Anthropology History A Short History of the Department of History School of the Arts History Timeline History of the CU Amateur Radio Club A Brief History of Columbia's Electrical Engineering Department, 1889-1975 Military and Veteran Affairs History Oral Histories The Columbia Center for Oral History (CCOH) was founded by History professor and journalist Allan Nevins in 1948 and is credited with launching the establishment of oral history archives internationally. At over 15,000 interviews, the Oral History Archives is one of the largest oral history collections in the United States. It includes many interviews with Columbia alumni, faculty and staff. You can find lists of Columbia University-related oral histories in their research guide or use the Oral History Portal to search their collections. Histories About Columbia College: Undergraduate Liberal Arts College for Men. Columbia University, 1958. 80 years of education for adults : Columbia University--School of General Studies. New York : The School, [1984?]. (Access catalog record) A guide to Columbia University, with some account of its history and traditions, edited by John William Robson. New York, Columbia University Press, 1937. A history of Columbia University, 1754-1904: published in commemoration of the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the founding of King's College. New York: The Columbia University Press, The Macmillan Company, agents; London, Macmillan & Co., Ltd., 1904. An historical sketch of Columbia College in the City of New York 1754-1876. New York: Printed for the College, MacGowan & Slipper, Press, 1876. The rise of a university, volume I : The later days of old Columbia College. New York: Columbia University Press, 1937. The rise of a university, volume II : The university in action. New York:Columbia University Press, 1937. Bicentennial History of Columbia University. New York: Columbia University Press, 1954. A multi-volume history of the University edited by History Professor Dwight Miner. Drafts and unpublished materials are available in the Dwight D. Miner papers on the history of Columbia University, 1938-1978. A history of adult education at Columbia University; University Extension and the School of General Studies A history of Barnard College A history of Columbia College on Morningside A history of Teachers College, Columbia University A history of the College of Pharmacy, Columbia University A history of the Faculty of Philosophy, Columbia University A history of the Faculty of Political Science, Columbia University A history of the Graduate School of Business, Columbia University A history of the Graduate School of Journalism, Columbia University A history of the New York School of Social Work A history of the School of Architecture, Columbia University A history of the School of Engineering, Columbia University A history of the School of International Affairs and associated area institutes, Columbia University A history of the School of Law, Columbia University A history of the School of Library Service, Columbia University Crisis at Columbia: an inside report on the rebellion at Columbia from the pages of the Columbia Daily Spectator. New York: Columbia Spectator, 1968. By author: Arrowsmith, Robert. Columbia of yesterday 1754-1897. Reprinted from the 1926 Columbian. Avron, Jerry et al. Up against the Ivy Wall: a history of the Columbia crisis, by Jerry L. Avorn, with Andrew Crane [and others] of the staff of the Columbia Daily Spectator. Edited with an introduction by Robert Friedman. New York, Atheneum Press, 1969 [c1968]. Bergdoll, Barry. Mastering McKim's plan: Columbia's first century on Morningside Heights. New York: Columbia University, Miriam and Ira Wallach Art Gallery, 1997. Columbia Global Center in Rio de Janeiro. Columbia-Brazil History. Thomas J. Trebat and Laura Nora, editors, 2020. Coon, Horace. Columbia: Colossus on the Hudson. New York: E.P. Dutton & Co. 1947. Cross, Timothy P. An oasis of order: the core curriculum at Columbia College. New York, NY: Columbia University, Columbia College, 1995. Dolkart, Andrew. Morningside Heights: a history of its architecture & development. New York: Columbia University Press, 1998. Finch, James Kip. The School of Engineering, in commemoration of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the establishment of engineering education at Columbia University, 1864-1939. New York: Columbia University Press, 1940. Humphrey, David C. From King's College to Columbia, 1746-1800. New York: Columbia University Press, 1976. Keppel, Frederick Paul. Columbia. New York: Oxford University Press, 1914. McCaughey, Robert A. Stand, Columbia: a history of Columbia University in the City of New York, 1754-2004. New York: Columbia University Press, c2003. McCaughey, Robert A. A lever long enough: a history of Columbia's School of Engineering and Applied Science since 1864. New York: Columbia University Press, [2014]. Moore, Clement Clarke. The early history of Columbia College; an address delivered before the alumni on May 4, 1825. New York, Columbia University Press, 1940. Moore, George Henry. Collegium regale Novi Eboraci: The origin and early history of Columbia College. New York: Printed for the author, 1890. Moore, N.F. An historical sketch of Columbia College, in the City of New-York. New York: Printed for Columbia College, 1846. Nelson, Charles Alexander. Columbiana: a bibliography of manuscripts, pamphlets and books relating to the history of King's College, Columbia College, Columbia University. Lancaster, PA: The New Era Printing Company, 1904. Pine, John Buckley. King's College and the early days of Columbia College: A Paper Read at the Nineteenth Annual Meeting of the New York State Historical Association, October 3, 1917. New York: Columbia University Press. Pine, John Buckley. King's College, now Columbia University 1754-1897. New York: J. J. Little & co, c1896. Rosenberg, Rosalind. Changing the subject: how the women of Columbia shaped the way we think about sex and politics. New York: Columbia University Press, c2004. van Amringe, John Howard. "Columbia" in Universities and their Sons: history, influence and characteristics of American universities, with biographical sketches and portraits of alumni and recipients of honorary degrees. Boston, R. Herndon company, 1898-1900. Wechsler, Harold S. The qualified student : a history of selective college admission in America. New Brunswick : Transaction Publishers, 2014. Sidebar Columbia University Archives Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor Butler Library 535 West 114th St. M.C. 1127 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-3786 E-mail: uarchives@columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Create or Access Your Special Collections Research Account Columbia University Archives About the University Archives Research & Access Use Policies & Services Collection Overview Columbia History Resources University Archives Research Guides Donating Materials Managing University Records Rare Book & Manuscript Library RBML News CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.