Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Visitors Accessing Princeton University Library Collections Updated July 13, 2021 Please note: PUL will continue to limit access to Library locations to Princeton University faculty, students, and staff with activated card access to buildings until further notice. For patrons affiliated with a member of University faculty, graduate student, or staff, a small number of exceptions may be possible on a case-by-case basis. To submit a request for consideration, please visit the EHS visitor page and complete the form linked on the right. Please note that the Library will need to approve this form, not the sponsor's department head. Send completed forms to refdesk@princeton.edu and include the collections to be accessed by the visitor. Allow three business days for review of requests. Visitors are required to obtain access cards (check the Access Office hours) in order to use the Firestone Library general collections and to enter the Marquand Library. For a complete overview of access and privilege policies, please refer to the Library Access for Visitors page. To use collections in the Marquand Library Rare Books, Mudd Library, and Firestone’s Special Collections Unit, patrons must register for a Special Collections Research Account. Access to the Furth Plasma Physics Library by non-PPPL personnel is by appointment only. Please visit the Plasma Physics Library webpage for more information. See the University's Visit Us page for more information about traveling to campus and parking. Get Help Ask a Librarian Email a Librarian Find Your Subject Librarian Phone Research Guides Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top