Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU HDS Home Email My.HDS HOLLIS ATLA Religion Database Search Google main search box code About Contact the Library Directions Hours Find Your Way Book a Group Study Room Library News Mission and History Research Tools Key Databases Essential Tools and Services M.Div. Senior Paper FAQ Citation Tools Research Guides How to Find Archives Help & Services Collections Religion Collections at Harvard Collection Strengths Special Collections Unitarian Universalist Resources Digital Collections Collections Beyond Harvard Ask Us HOME / Collections Harvard Library is the largest academic library in the world, and its collections for the study of religion and related fields are broad, deep, and richly diverse. Those collections, coupled with a worldwide network of collaborative partnerships and a rapidly growing body of digital resources, ensure that Harvard scholars have enviable access to what they need to support their work. Religion Collections at Harvard Harvard Divinity School Library, Widener Library, and more . . . HDS Library Collection Strengths Building on a long historical legacy . . . Special Collections Open to all researchers interested in Special Collections materials and services. Unitarian Universalist Resources A national repository and library of record for Unitarian Universalism . . . Digital Projects Making important resources more visible and accessible . . . Beyond Harvard A world of knowledge at your fingertips . . . HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL LIBRARY 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 617.495.5788 my.hds | Harvard University | Harvard Library | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Trademark Notice | Reporting Copyright Infringements Copyright © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. HDS Library Styles Code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement