Skip to main content Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Menu Main navigation Explore Resources Knowledge Base Insights Programs Archives & Special Collections Secondary navigation About Us Ask a Question COVID-19 Update Search for: Educational Programs The Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library (HSL) offers a variety of educational programs, workshops, seminars and classes. Interested in learning more about systematic reviews or self-editing techniques? Wondering how to improve your h-index or survive the scientific research process? We can guide you! Please see below for more information and check our upcoming events page regularly for date and time details, as new dates and offerings will be added. Registration is required. Tailored group sessions may also be requested. Programs Research Questions and Literature Review Discover PubMed Join the Health Sciences Library for a discussion and demo of the new PubMed. We will highlight changes to the database, explore options for you to enhance your PubMed skills and help with any questions you have about the transition. Research Survival Skills Starting a new project? Wondering where to start in your research journey? Join us for our Survival Skills workshop! So You Want to do a Systematic Review If you’re thinking of starting on a systematic review and don’t know where to start, this brief introduction will help to get you started. The Write Stuff: Write Start Start your thesis, capstone, or dissertation off strong with The Write Stuff: Write Start! Research Methodology and Collaboration Get Pumped for Publishing: Build Your Research Reputation Learn to develop a publishing routine from examining types of publications to setting realistic expectations for research production, and how to boost your research reputation by evaluating various platforms, using impact metrics, and crafting an elevator pitch. Research Ethics & Compliance: Take Charge of Your Journey to Publication Designed in collaboration with the Office of Research Compliance and Training, Research Ethics and Compliance: Take Charge of Your Journey to Publication! is a program for members of the CU and CUIMC communities looking to promote their digital scholarship. Communicating Data and Information Drawing Connections Workshop Graphic medicine is the use of comics in patient care and medical education. Artists and medical providers collaborate to create visual narratives that tackle medical conditions and topics. Oral Presentation Skills workshop From enunciation to pitch, rate and more, this session provides a closer look at the fundamental techniques necessary to deliver one’s presentation with confidence and ease. Research Ethics & Plagiarism The occurrence of plagiarism can be intentional or unintentional. A variety of proactive strategies exist that can be used by both faculty and students to mitigate the occurrence of plagiarism. Self-editing workshop Whether drafting an email, typing up your thesis or a manuscript for publication, it is important to edit your work. While feedback from others is important to the editing process, the finished product is ultimately a reflection on the author. The Write Stuff: Write Now Reach the finish line of your thesis, capstone, or dissertation with The Write Stuff: Write Now! During the session, participants learn how to organize, prioritize, and plan ahead to efficiently write a research project. Publication and Digital Scholarship Contemporary Health Sciences Education: Systematic Review Seminar Systematic Reviews are used as an educational tool in the development of health sciences students. The projects are assigned for students to explore literature, find relevant articles on a research topic and critically evaluate information. Evidence-Based Practice: Strategies to Identify Information Needs and Resources Workshop Join the Health Sciences Library for an Evidence-Based Practice workshop for creating strategies to identify information needs and corresponding information sources. Get Pumped for Publishing: Build Your Research Reputation Learn to develop a publishing routine from examining types of publications to setting realistic expectations for research production, and how to boost your research reputation by evaluating various platforms, using impact metrics, and crafting an elevator pitch. Research Ethics & Compliance: Take Charge of Your Journey to Publication Designed in collaboration with the Office of Research Compliance and Training, Research Ethics and Compliance: Take Charge of Your Journey to Publication! is a program for members of the CU and CUIMC communities looking to promote their digital scholarship. The Index Flex In this workshop, you will learn strategies to build and/or optimize your online presence, increase the visibility of your expertise and work, and familiarize yourself with a variety of impact metrics, such as the H-index. The Write Stuff: Write Now Reach the finish line of your thesis, capstone, or dissertation with The Write Stuff: Write Now! During the session, participants learn how to organize, prioritize, and plan ahead to efficiently write a research project. Programs Event Calendar Educational Program Policy and Procedures Request a Program Upcoming Classes & Events Jun 9 Class So You Want to Do a Systematic Review? Date Thu Jun 9, 2022 Time 11:00am - 12:00pm Jun 21 Class Starting a Scoping Review Date Tue Jun 21, 2022 Time 11:00am - 12:00pm Jul 26 Class The Index Flex: Optimizing Your Online Research Presence Date Tue Jul 26, 2022 Time 11:00am - 11:45am All Upcoming Classes & Events Back to top Advancing meaningful engagement with information Contact Us Service Desk: (212) 305-3605 Interlibrary Loan: (212) 305-3605 Archives & Special Collections: (212) 305-7931 Send us an email Connect on Twitter (@CUIMClibrary) Visit Us Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Hammer Health Sciences Building, Lobby Level Columbia University Irving Medical Center 701 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 About Us Location and Hours Library Spaces Library Staff Library Accounts Library Policies Computing Resources Recommend A Library Purchase Columbia University Irving Medical Center © 2021 Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Manage Web Cookie Preference