Skip to main content Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Menu Main navigation Explore Resources Knowledge Base Insights Programs Archives & Special Collections Secondary navigation About Us Ask a Question COVID-19 Update Search for: Announcements Library Resources Resource Spotlight - Oxford Medicine Online (Opens a new website in a new window) May 25, 2022 Oxford Medicine Online is a digital platform that hosts Oxford University Press' prestigious medical titles. It brings together authoritative texts by world-renowned authors, covering all biomedical specialties. Past Announcements Displaying 1 - 10 of 46 announcements Library Resources Resource Spotlight - Thieme MedOne Radiology (Opens a new website in a new window) May 11, 2022 Thieme MedOne Radiology provides extensive case libraries and diagnostic guidance for those in training, and essential references and procedural guidelines for the qualified specialist in clinical practice. Events & Programs Re-energize and finish the semester strong Apr 28, 2022 We transformed Room 101 in the Knowledge Center to a 24-hour break room during finals! From now to Monday, May 9, stop by for a break with activities like coloring, puzzles, games...or squeezing a stress ball! We wish you best of luck with finals! Library Resources Resource Spotlight – Harrison’s Principles of Internal Medicine: New edition now available (Opens a new website in a new window) Apr 5, 2022 The 21st edition of the highly trusted Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine includes new chapters highlighting recent advances in clinical diagnosis and therapeutic interventions; existing chapters have been rewritten to provide up-to-date information and latest guidelines. Library Resources Resource Spotlight - Web of Science (Opens a new website in a new window) Mar 31, 2022 Web of Science is a comprehensive interdisciplinary, bibliographic database that provides tools for searching, tracking, measuring and collaborating in the sciences, social sciences, arts and humanities. Library Updates Health Sciences Library COVID-19 Update Mar 14, 2022 Learn about available library services and resources during COVID-19. Library Resources Resource Spotlight - APA PsycTests (Opens a new website in a new window) Mar 2, 2022 APA PsycTests is an extensive collection of items associated with psychological measures, scales, surveys, and other instruments for professionals, students and educators across the social sciences. Library Updates New Knowledge Center wing unveiled (Opens a new website in a new window) Feb 24, 2022 Come experience the newest addition to the Knowledge Center space at the Health Sciences Library! The new wing extends collaborative working spaces at the Library. It also features a separate, quiet study space with Windows and Mac computers. See you here soon! Library Resources Publish open access for free with Cambridge University Press (Opens a new website in a new window) Feb 10, 2022 The NorthEast Research Libraries Consortium (NERL) and Cambridge University Press have signed an agreement that means you may be eligible to publish your article Open Access at no cost to you. Library Resources Resource Spotlight - LWW Health Library Medical Education (Opens a new website in a new window) Feb 2, 2022 LWW Health Library - Medical Education provides teaching and learning support for medical programs including anatomical sciences, basic sciences, osteopathic medicine, and clinical rotations. The collection includes course content, multimedia, and links to primary literature. Events & Programs Ready to finish your thesis, capstone, or dissertation? (Opens a new website in a new window) Feb 1, 2022 Join us on February 15 for The Write Stuff: Write Now to discover ways to organize, prioritize, and plan ahead to write your scholarly paper, how to strategize your writing to avoid procrastination, working with your advisor, and improving your writing for clarity and structure. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Next page Next Last page Last Back to top Advancing meaningful engagement with information Contact Us Service Desk: (212) 305-3605 Interlibrary Loan: (212) 305-3605 Archives & Special Collections: (212) 305-7931 Send us an email Connect on Twitter (@CUIMClibrary) Visit Us Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Hammer Health Sciences Building, Lobby Level Columbia University Irving Medical Center 701 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 About Us Location and Hours Library Spaces Library Staff Library Accounts Library Policies Computing Resources Recommend A Library Purchase Columbia University Irving Medical Center © 2021 Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Manage Web Cookie Preference