Skip to main content Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Menu Main navigation Explore Resources Knowledge Base Insights Programs Archives & Special Collections Secondary navigation About Us Ask a Question COVID-19 Update Search for: Breadcrumb Home About Us Study Spaces Reserve Teamwork Hubs Reserve Group Study Rooms Reserve Individual Study Carrels The Health Sciences Library (HSL) provides an array of study spaces to meet the needs of our diverse users. All Library spaces are located in the Hammer Health Sciences Center: Lobby level: Knowledge Center Lower Level 1 (LL1): Quiet Reading Room (LL1-112), Group Study Rooms, Individual Study Carrels Reservations are available for spaces, including Teamwork Hubs in the Knowledge Center, Group Study Rooms, and Individual Study Carrels. Learn more about each space below. For library reopening plans on the Morningside campus, please refer to Columbia University Libraries' Library Status Updates page. Using study spaces Knowledge Center (Hammer Lobby Level) The Knowledge Center is located on the Lobby level of the Hammer Health Sciences Center and is open 24/7. Current CUIMC and Columbia students, faculty, and staff as well as NYP-Columbia staff are welcome to use the Knowledge Center during study spaces hours. Outside of study spaces hours, only individuals with active CUIMC IDs have card swipe access. Please continue to observe the University's COVID-19 Health Guidance. The space features a variety of seating options. Banquette/booth Image: iMac OS X computer workstation Image: Orange Room 1-102: 8 seats Image: Round table Image: Square chair Image: Tall table Image: Teamwork hub: Team Hub 4 is reservable. Image: Windows computer workstation Image: The Knowledge Center also has six printers and a scanning station. Quiet Reading Room (Hammer Lower Level 1) Located on the Lower Level 1 of Hammer, the quiet reading room is open 24/7 and does not require an ID to enter. Please continue to observe the University's COVID-19 Health Guidance while using the space. The space features two types of seating: Privacy work lounge Image: Tall table Image: Group Study Rooms (Hammer Lower Level 1) The Health Sciences Library offers eight group study rooms on the Lower Level 1 of the Hammer Building. Five group study rooms seat between 4-8 individuals and three larger collaboration rooms seat between 8-10 individuals. Reservations are available daily between 7 a.m. and 10 p.m. through the end of current semester. Group Study Rooms are first-come, first-served for any unreserved time slots. Group Study Room reservation guidelines: Current CUIMC students use only. Group use only. NOT for instruction or teaching purposes, including TA sessions. Reservations can be made for up to three hours per day with a minimum of 30 minutes. Reservations may be scheduled through the end of the current semester. Reservations are held for 15 minutes after start time. After 15 minutes, the room will be available to any group and becomes reservable online. Please observe the following when using the space: Follow Columbia's COVID-19 Health Guidance. Do not eat in the study space. Arrive on time for your reservation and check in. Wipe down surfaces before you leave. Individual Study Carrels (Hammer Lower Level 1) The Health Sciences Library offers ten 24/7 individual study carrels on the Lower Level 1 of Hammer, adjacent to the group study rooms. Each room is equipped with a glass sliding door that can also be used as a dry-erase board. Columbia students, faculty, and staff can reserve individual study carrels for up to two hours per day between 7 a.m. and 10 p.m.. Study carrels are first-come, first-served for any unreserved time slots. Individual Study Carrel reservation guidelines: Current CUIMC students, faculty, and staff can reserve. Reservations can be made for up to two hours per day with a minimum of 30 minutes. Reservations may be scheduled through the end of the current semester. Reservations are held for 15 minutes after start time. After 15 minutes, the room will be available to any user and becomes reservable online. Please observe the following when using the space: Follow Columbia's COVID-19 Health Guidance. Do not eat in the study space. Arrive on time for your reservation and check in. Wipe down surfaces before you leave. Guidelines for use Due to the University's current COVID-19 visitor policies, study spaces at the Health Sciences Library are for current Columbia and CUIMC students, faculty, and staff only. NYP and NYSPI staff have access to the Knowledge Center during our staffed hours. Entrance to the Hammer Health Sciences Center and the Knowledge Center space is conditioned upon completion of the University’s return to campus protocols. We will update our access policy in accordance with University policies. Please observe the following when using study spaces: Follow Columbia's COVID-19 Health Guidance. Do not eat in the study space. Arrive on time for your reservation and check in. Wipe down surfaces before you leave. Last updated: March 14, 2022 About Us Location and Hours Library Spaces Library Staff Library Accounts Library Policies Computing Resources Recommend A Library Purchase Back to top Advancing meaningful engagement with information Contact Us Service Desk: (212) 305-3605 Interlibrary Loan: (212) 305-3605 Archives & Special Collections: (212) 305-7931 Send us an email Connect on Twitter (@CUIMClibrary) Visit Us Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Hammer Health Sciences Building, Lobby Level Columbia University Irving Medical Center 701 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 About Us Location and Hours Library Spaces Library Staff Library Accounts Library Policies Computing Resources Recommend A Library Purchase Columbia University Irving Medical Center © 2021 Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Manage Web Cookie Preference