Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Collections Archive of World Music Collections of archival field recordings of musics worldwide, as well as commercial recordings and streaming resources of ethnomusicological interest. Early 20th century disc produced by Fabrik Mechian Records, Cairo. View Catalog Details Loeb Music Library The Archive of World Music at Loeb Music Library collects archival field recordings of musics worldwide, as well as commercial audiovisual recordings and streaming resources of ethnomusicological interest. The collection was established in 1976 by Professor John Ward. In 1992, with the appointment of Harvard's first senior professor of ethnomusicology, the collection moved to the Loeb Music Library. The Archive has developed important collections from Asia and the Middle East. It holds diverse archival material, such as wide-ranging Chinese songs acquired by Harvard Professor Emeritus Rulan Pian; extensive field recordings made by Martha Forsyth in 1980s of traditional Bulgarian songs; field recordings of Tvisöngur (male polyphony in Iceland); and !Kung field recordings. Numerous recordings of Indonesian music have also been acquired, primarily on commercial sound cassettes. Some of the Archive's major collections include: the James Rubin Collection of Indian Classical Music, one of the largest collections of Indian classical music in the U.S. the Kay Kaufman Shelemay Collection of Ethiopian Music the Sema Vakf Collection of Turkish Classical Music, one of the largest outside of Turkey the Laura Boulton Collection of Byzantine and Eastern Orthodox Musics the Eduard Alekseyev Fieldwork Collection of the Musical Cultural of Yakutia the Stephen Blum Collection of Music from Iranian Khorāsān the Rubén Blades Archive the Arabic 78 Collection While collection development focuses on the Middle East, Asia and Africa, the Archive is expanding its holdings of recordings from Mexico, Central and South America, as well as from all around the globe. Substantial grant funding from the Laura Boulton Foundation, the Sema Vakf Foundation, and the Harvard University Library Digital Initiative has supported efforts to preserve and digitize collections. Accessing These Materials The Archive of World Music is a closed-stack, non-circulating teaching and archival collection for in-library use. Materials in the Archive are cataloged in HOLLIS, and are searchable by country, by keyword, or by author/title searches. Finding aids to special collections in the Archive are also available via HOLLIS. Commercial CD, DVD and VHS tape recordings in the collection are available for immediate listening/viewing within the library. However, LP and 78rpm disc recordings, audio cassettes, magnetic reel tapes, and non-commercial video tapes must be reformatted, and access to their content will be provided through digital listening/viewing copies and PDFs of any accompanying documentation. It can take two weeks for such materials to be prepared. All requests can be submitted by clicking "Request It" in HOLLIS. Visiting researchers should submit requests in advance of their visit in order to make the best use of their time at the Archive. Contact Loeb Music Library Public Services email: Email Phone number 617-495-2794 Related Collections Collection Sema Vakf Collection of Turkish Classical Music Collection Sema Vakf Collection of Turkish Classical Music One of the largest collections of Turkish music in the world, devoted to the preservation and perpetuation of classical Turkish music. Collection James A. Rubin Collection of South Indian Classical Music Collection James A. Rubin Collection of South Indian Classical Music One of the most comprehensive and significant collections of Carnatic music recordings in the world today. Collection Eduard Alekseyev Fieldwork Collection of the Musical Culture of Yakutia Collection Eduard Alekseyev Fieldwork Collection of the Musical Culture of Yakutia Digital streaming audio, and video recordings, of traditional religious and ritual cultural expressions of the Sakha (Yakut) people from the Sakha Republic of the Russian Federation. Collection Stephen Blum Collection of Music from Iranian Khorāsān Collection Stephen Blum Collection of Music from Iranian Khorāsān Field recordings, many digital, with an emphasis on sung poetry in Persian (Farsi), Khorasani Turkish (Torki), and Kurmanji Kurdish. Collection Rubén Blades Archives Collection Rubén Blades Archives Chronicling the life and work of the internationally prominent and popular musician, actor and politician. Collection Laura Boulton Collection Collection Laura Boulton Collection This collection represents Boulton's field work throughout the Eastern Orthodox world during the 1950s and 1960s. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.