Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Borrowing Process and Policies Borrowing Process and Policies Page main body content Borrowing and Computer Access Toggle SU Students Content (Includes graduate and post-doctoral, part-time, matriculated and non-matriculated students) Books can be borrowed up to 1 semester for undergraduates, one year for graduate and post-doctoral students Compact Discs can be borrowed up to 7 days Videos/DVDs and Games can be borrowed up to 24 hours for undergraduates, 3 days for graduate and post-doctoral students Access to Remote Database Interlibrary Loan Library Computers Borrow Laptops, Gear and other Technology Use Study Rooms Toggle Off-Campus or Distance SU Students Content If you live more than 30 miles from campus, we will mail items to your home. Use Request, Pickup and Delivery and indicate you are a distance student in the Notes box. Interlibrary Loan books from other libraries cannot be mailed. Library items may be renewed online in your account. Note that borrow periods and privileges are same as SU students noted above. Toggle SU Faculty, incl. Adjunct and Emeriti Content Faculty status is determined by the University and emeritus status is conferred by the University. Books can be borrowed up to 1 year Compact Discs can be borrowed up to 21 days Videos/DVDs and Games can be borrowed up to 3 days Access to Remote Database Interlibrary Loan Library Computer Use Borrow Laptops, Gear and other Technology Use Study Rooms (for active faculty and adjuncts only) Toggle SU Staff Content Includes part-time employees, but does not include temporary employees Books can be borrowed up to 16 weeks Compact Discs can be borrowed up to 7 days Videos/DVDs and Games can be borrowed up to 24 hours Access to Remote Database Interlibrary Loan Library Computer Use Borrow Laptops, Gear and Other Technology Toggle Retired Faculty and Staff; Spouses and Dependents Content Books can be borrowed up to 28 days with a 20 item limit Compact Discs can be borrowed up to 7 days Videos/DVDs and Games can be borrowed up to 24 hours Library Computer Use (for spouses and dependents only) Toggle SU Alumni Content With Guest Borrower Card: Books can be borrowed up to 16 weeks Compact Discs can be borrowed up to 7 days Videos/DVDs and Games can be borrowed up to 24 hours Library Computer Use Toggle Libraries Donors Content With an annual gift of $100 or more to the Libraries, donors may apply for free Guest Borrower account. Books can be borrowed up to 28 days with a 20 item limit Toggle Visiting or Sponsored Researchers Content Visiting Researchers from other educational institutions formally associated with an SU academic department can work with their sponsored department to gain library privileges. Those not affiliated with SU may apply for access to the Libraries' computers for a specific research project for up to two weeks. To apply, complete theVisiting Researcher Computer Access form. Sponsored Researchers are formally sponsored by an SU academic department or unit and have been assigned an SU I.D. for a defined period of time. To apply for this access, complete and submit a Sponsored Researcher Access Form. Books can be borrowed for up to 1 year Compact Discs can be borrowed for up to 21 days Videos/DVDs and Games can be borrowed for up to 3 days Access to Remote Database Interlibrary Loan Library Computer Use Toggle ESF Students, Faculty, Staff and Alumni Content Undergraduate Students Books may be borrowed for up to 28 days Compact Discs may be borrowed for up to 7 days Videos/DVDs and Games may be borrowed for up to 24 hours Library Computer Use Borrow Laptops, Gear and other Technology Use Study Rooms Graduate Students and Faculty Includes part-time, matriculated and non-matriculated graduate students Books may be borrowed for up to 1 year Compact Discs may be borrowed for up to 7 days Videos/DVDs and Games may be borrowed for up to 3 days Library Computer Use Borrow Laptops, Gear and other Technology Use Study Rooms (for graduate students only) ESF Staff Includes part-time staff, but does not include temporary employees Books may be borrowed for up to 16 weeks Compact Discs may be borrowed for up to 7 days Videos/DVDs and Games may be borrowed for up to 24 hours Library Computer Use Borrow Laptops, Gear and other Technology ESF Alumni Books may be borrowed for up to 28 days with a 20 item limit Compact Discs may be borrowed for up to 7 days Videos/DVDs and Games may be borrowed for up to 24 hours Library Computer Use ESF Continuing Education Program May apply for free Guest Borrower card. Books may be borrowed for up to 28 days with a 20 item limit Toggle Students, Faculty and Staff from Other Local Institutions Content Project Advance Students Books may be borrowed for up to 28 days Remote Database Access Library Computer Use Faculty, Staff and Students from Updates Medical University, Onondaga Community College or LeMoyne College May apply for free Guest Borrower account. Books may be borrowed for up to 28 days with a 20 item limit Toggle Guest Borrowers Content Guest borrowers do not have computer access privileges. Individuals may apply for a Guest Borrow account for a fee of $25/month, $50/semester or $100/year. Corporate/Organization may apply for an account for a fee. Not-for-Profit $75/semester or $150/year; For-Profit $150/semester or $300/year. See Policy and Procedure for account information Books may be borrowed up to 28 days with a 5 item limit on account at any time Toggle Borrowing Policy Content Anyone with current SU I.D. or Guest Borrower card has borrowing privileges as outlined. Other visitors may use library resources in-house. If you wish to have another SU-affiliated individual borrow materials on your behalf, you may request that a proxy user be created by library staff. You are responsible for all materials checked out in your name and for all fines and charges. Borrowing privileges are contingent upon continued eligibility and compliance with borrowing and library use policies. SU Libraries reserve the right to cancel borrowing privileges and forward unpaid charges to a collections agency. Any library visitor may access the library catalog through quick look-up stations located on floors 1-5 of Bird Library. Please see the Computer Use Policy for additional information regarding in-library computer use. Check Out, Return and Renew Library Materials Toggle Check Out at Bird Library Content Present your current SU I.D. or Guest Borrower card to check out items. Books from the main collection: 1st Floor - Check In/Out Desk 3rd Floor - Check In/Out and Help Desk Self-service check-out Self-check machines are located on the 1st and 3rd floors Maps and Government Information: 3rd Floor - Check In/Out and Help Desk Music recordings and videos: 3rd Floor - Check In/Out and Help Desk Toggle Check Out at Carnegie Library Content Present your current SU I.D. or Guest Borrower card to check out items. Books can be checked out at the 2nd Floor Service Desk. Toggle Return Items Content Library items may be returned at Bird Library: Book drop - outside on the Waverly Avenue side 1st Floor - Check In/Out desk 1st Floor - book drop next to Information Desk 3rd Floor - Check In/Out and Help Desk Library items may be returned at Carnegie Library: Book drop - outside on side entrance door of Carnegie Library 2nd Floor - service desk Distance Learners: Use the prepaid return label and box in which the item was originally sent. Toggle Request and Hold; Pickup Lockers; UPS Shipment Content Anyone with a valid SU or SUNY-ESF ID can safely borrow items from our physical circulating collections at Bird Library, Carnegie Library, or King+King Architecture Library. Users are also able to request items through the library catalog, which can be pulled and held for pick up. Pickup location options: - Bird Library Contactless Pickup Lockers (located near Waverly Street entrance), - Bird Library Check Out desk, - Carnegie Library service desk, and - King+King Architecture Library service desk. To request that an item to be pulled and held for you: Find the item in our catalog. Once the item is identified, select “Request this item.” Complete the form, including your preferred delivery method, then Submit Request. You will receive a confirmation email that your request is being processed. Once the item is available, you will receive another email with directions about picking the item from your preferred pickup location or having it delivered via UPS to your residence. Please do not clean or disinfect borrowed materials, as it may damage the item. Libraries staff follow University as well as national safety guidelines in preparing items for loan and upon their return. UPS Shipment SU affiliates living more than 30 miles from campus can request to have items from SU Libraries’ collections shipped via UPS delivery to your residence. Alumni Alumni with requests should email circhelp@syr.edu. Toggle Renewals Content You can view a list of books loaned to you, renew books and check on the status of pending requests by logging in to your account. You can renew in person or online. Online renewals must be done BEFORE the date the item is due. To use online renewal: Click on My Accounts, then enter your NetID and Password. Scroll down to ITEMS CHECKED OUT and click in the RENEW box to the left of the item(s) you want to renew. Scroll to the bottom of the list and click RENEW ITEMS. Note the new due date(s) in the ITEMS CHECKED OUT list. Be sure to LOGOUT at the top of the page to keep your personal information secure. Questions? Call the Bird Library Check Out Desk at 315.443.5727. Toggle Late Return and Lost Items Content Fees may be paid by credit card online, at the Check Out Desk in Bird Library, or the service desk in Carnegie Library (Visa and MasterCard only). Fees are applied for items that are returned late or unreturned. Note that fees for reserve items are higher than general collection books. Borrowers will be charged a lost item replacement and processing fee for non-returned library materials. The lost item replacement fee is $70 per item ($75 per item for Music and Architecture). Library users also have the option of providing a new, exact duplicate copy instead of paying the lost item replacement fee. Whether paying the lost item replacement fee or providing a new, exact duplicate copy, a $15 processing fee is charged. Technology loaner equipment has different lost item replacement fees. Please check with the Borrow Laptops and Gear page for more information. Late Return Fees Toggle Late Return Fees Content Item Type Fine per item Maximum fine per item prior to replacement charge General Collection books 50 cents per day $15 2-hour, 3-hour and 24-hour course reserve items $2 per hour $30 3-day and 7-day course reserve $5 per day $30 Item recalled by library for return $2 per day $30 Laptops, gear and other loaner technology See Borrow Laptops and Gear See Borrow Laptops and Gear Study room key 25 cents per minute $30 Videos 50 cents per hour $15 Sound recordings $5 per day $15 Games 50 cents per hour $15 Library Access at Other Institutions Toggle Interlibrary Loan Content Interlibrary Loan will obtain needed materials that are not available in Syracuse University Libraries. All current Syracuse University students, faculty, and staff are eligible for these services. SUNY ESF students and faculty should contact Moon Library for interlibrary loan services. We are unable to offer interlibrary loan service to alumni or members of the local community. Visit the Onondaga County Public Library Interlibrary Loan web page for more information on their interlibrary loan services. Toggle OCLC Reciprocal Faculty Borrowing Program Content This allows all faculty members from Syracuse University and other participating institutions to gain borrowing privileges and on-site access to many research libraries in North America. View the OCLC Reciprocal Faculty Borrowing Program membership roster. For information on how to gain access to other libraries, email circhelp@syr.edu to facilitate establishing the needed credentials. Participating SU Faculty Guidelines Obtain and present appropriate identification when requesting a Reciprocal Faculty Borrowing Program card from your home library. Show that card, along with other required identification, when borrowing materials from another library. Observe the borrowing policies of the lending library. Return materials in the method defined by the lending library within the loan period prescribed. Return materials immediately, in person or by express shipping, if recalled by the lending library. Pay any and all fines or other charges incurred due to late return or damage to materials. Toggle SHARES Content On-Site Access Program Allows faculty, students and staff from Syracuse University and other participating institutions to gain on-site access to collections at many research libraries, museum libraries and archives in the United States and several other countries. Syracuse University patrons visiting other SHARES partner libraries must present a valid Syracuse University I.D. to get on-site access. Participating partner institutions can be found on the SHARES website. If you have questions about this program, contact Syracuse University Libraries' Resource Sharing Coordinator. On-Site Borrowing Program In addition to accessing any of the SHARES Partner Institutions, a small number of SHARES libraries offer the opportunity to create a library account and check out materials. Partners in the pilot program are: Binghamton University; Brandeis University; Cornell University; Northwestern University; Syracuse University; Temple University; University of California, Los Angeles; University of Maryland; and Washington University in St. Louis. Syracuse Patrons: Complete and submit the SHARES application online. A Syracuse Universities Libraries staff member will verify your status and forward your application to the SHARES institution for which you plan to visit. You will receive a confirmation email from the SHARES institution with details about when you can pick up your library card. It is your responsibility to observe the policies for on-site access set by the lending library. Visiting Syracuse University from a SHARES Institution? If you are visiting from one of the On-Site Borrowing pilot institutions and would like to borrow materials from Syracuse University Libraries locally, you will need to: First apply through your home college/university library. Your home institution will submit your completed SHARES Reciprocal Borrowing Program Application to Syracuse University. Syracuse will contact you directly when your SHARES application has been received and processed. Once the application has been processed, stop by the Check Out Desk in Bird Library during open hours. Present a government issued photo ID card (ex. passport, driver's license). Your Syracuse University Library Card will: Be valid for one year from the issuing date. Allow physical access and borrowing of circulating books in Bird and Carnegie Libraries. Allow you to check out up to ten items for 4 weeks with one renewal. Items can be returned at either Syracuse or your home institution's library. Related Video Tutorials How to find a book at the library. Reshelving books at the library. Right aside items Related Links Missing Book FORM Pay Late and/or Lost Fees Proxy Request FORM Request, Pickup and Delivery Sponsored Researcher Request FORM Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.