My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) Services & Tools Reference & Citation Management Reference & Citation Management Citation management software makes mining and using information resources easier and more effective, helping you to: Capture bibliographic and full-text information as you explore Organize, evaluate, annotate, and search within your collection Cite and list resources in a wide range of bibliographic styles as needed Access the information on your desktop or online Synchronize your data across multiple machines Share your research with others Email a librarian with expertise in using Zotero and other citation-management tools or use our Ask A Librarian chat service with questions related to library-supported resources.You can also contact a staff member in person or by phone when the Libraries are open. Zotero Zotero allows you to collect, organize, cite and share your research sources and enables the download, capture, and indexing of full text from PDFs and websites. The Libraries recommend the use of Zotero due to its open-source pedigree and widespread popularity. Zotero is available as a Firefox plugin as well as a standalone version, providing browser extensions for Firefox, Chrome, and Safari. Zotero's integration with Firefox is considerably more efficient than with the other browsers, however, so bear this in mind when getting started. Click here for a free download of Zotero. Consult the Quick Start Guide for tips and videos on how to get started using Zotero. Be sure to download a word processor plugin to make the fullest use of this software. The Libraries offer free hands-on workshops on using Zotero. You can find information about dates and times as well as register online to attend one of these sessions on the Libraries Workshops page. Using Zotero to Maintain Integrity in your Online Sources: &nbsp; Additional Citation Management Tools Mendeley: Mendeley is another free standalone application, which performs largely the same functions as Zotero but behaves a little bit differently. For example, while both Zotero and Mendeley allow you to extract metadata (such as title, authors, etc.) from PDFs, Mendeley automates this process while providing the option of organizing your files directly in your hard drive in a customizable manner. Mendeley also allows for highlighting and annotations directly on the article PDF. Download Mendeley here. Here is a list of Mendeley Help Guides to get you started, or to expand your knowledge. EndNote: NOTE TO WINDOWS USERS The license.dat file needs to be in the same location as the installation file in order for the registration to work (e.g. if you downloaded the installation file to your Downloads folder, the license.dat file needs to be there as well). Download EndNote 20 for Windows Click here to download the License.dat file. NOTE TO MAC USERS Download EndNote 20 for Mac Use EndNote online via Web of Science (http://www.columbia.edu/cgi-bin/cul/resolve?clio2054244, click EndNote in the black bar) Converting an Existing Citation Library To a Different Application If you are a long-time EndNote user who would like to move your data, and you need help, do not hesitate to schedule a consultation with a librarian who will help you through this process. Zotero provides instructions on how to import reference libraries from other software you may have used in the past. If you are a Mendeley user, here are instructions on importing reference libraries from EndNote, from Zotero, or from Papers. Citation Management Help You can Ask A Librarian any questions related to library-supported resources. You can do so in person at a reference desk, by email, by phone, or in an online chat session. Additional Resources Other Software: For LaTeX users, BibDesk might suit your needs. See also: Wikipedia's Comparison of Reference Management Software General Citation Sources and Tools: Citing Sources - APA, Chicago, MLA, CSE, & Turabian OWL Writing Lab - APA, Chicago, & MLA Citing Electronic Resources - Chicago & MLA Citing Government Documents - APA, Chicago, MLA, & Turabian The Columbia Guide to Online Style (Includes guidelines for online citations and for formatting your documents.) Citing Government Documents (Includes citation formats for specific government documents.) Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Ask a Librarian Course Reserves Digital Scholarship Research Data Services Study Spaces Library Information Office Preservation & Digital Conversion Division Request Items & Services Other Library Catalogs Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian