CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee East Asian Studies The Columbia University Libraries have collected resources on East Asia for a long time. In the early decades of the twentieth century, as an "East Asiatic" collection came into being, the majority of such resources came to be assigned to this collection. Given the limited number of publications on East Asia in those days, anything remotely related to the East Asian area—and frequently resources related to other parts of Asia or "The Orient" in general—was added as well. However, as the field of East Asian Studies grew ever faster, particularly from the later decades of the twentieth century onward, the publication output grew in conjunction and with it the need to become more selective in collecting such publications. This explains why, among older parts of the collection, one may find resources on subjects that would today be considered out of scope. Starr Library's western-language collection serves to complement the library's collections in the East Asian original languages, and provides access to western-language scholarship on East Asia. Curricular support and support for research by the Columbia community comprise the main focus of the collection. The emphasis of the collection is particularly on scholarship in the Humanities, and increasingly also selective Social Sciences, with lesser holdings on a number of other subjects. As research and teaching foci shift, the collection scope broadens correspondingly. In addition to what the Starr Library collects, a substantial number of western-language materials on East Asia can also to be found in other divisions of the Columbia University Libraries; e.g., East Asian business and economics resources are in the Business Library, resources on East Asian international relations are generally in Lehman Library, and East Asian arts are, for the most part in Avery/Fine Arts Library.The online catalog indicates locations for all resources in the bibliographic records. Current western-language periodical issues are shelved, in call number order, on the west wall of the second alcove on the southside of the reading room. Completed volumes are transferred to ReCAP, the offsite facility. These volumes can be requested by patrons, using the request function in the bibliographic record in CLIO. Alternatively, electronic document delivery of specific articles can be requested using the same request form. Any comments, questions, and suggestions regarding Starr Library's western-language collection can be directed to the East Asian Studies Librarian. Please refer to the basic Library Research Guide to learn how to use the Columbia University Libraries' resources on East Asian subjects in western languages. Head of Public Services / East Asian Studies Librarian Ms. Ria Koopmans-de Bruijn 310 Kent Hall (212) 854-1505 rkb7@columbia.edu Sidebar C.V. Starr East Asian Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 300 Kent Hall 1140 Amsterdam Ave M.C. 3901 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-4318 E-mail: starr@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » C. V. Starr East Asian Library Links About Starr Library Directions Floorplans iPod Library Tours Staff Starr Library Blog Ask a Librarian CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.