Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Mission, Vision, North Star & DEI A message from Anne Jarvis, University Librarian Anne E. Jarvis, Robert H. Taylor 1930 University Librarian I am pleased to share with you our latest mission and vision as well as six North Star statements and our new DEI statement. Recent experience has demonstrated the need for all of us to remain agile and flexible as well as to actively commit to building a culture that welcomes all. I believe these statements are a strong reflection of our commitment to both. Our mission We enrich teaching and learning, facilitate world-class research, and preserve cultural heritage by providing dynamic services and diverse collections. Our vision We aspire to be an active and creative partner within Princeton University and across the global community by curating pertinent resources and engaging in emerging forms of teaching, learning, and research in ways that explicitly support diversity, equity, and inclusion. Our North Star statements We will be strategically and operationally agile as we build services and resources. We will meet patrons wherever they are, and democratize access to knowledge as a core component of the library experience. As global citizens, we will diversify our collections, preserving the present and the past with awareness, humility, and respect. Diversity, equity, and inclusion will be the cornerstone of our culture. We will leverage library resources to help identify, reveal, and combat systemic racism. We will proactively establish and foster partnerships across the University, at home and around the world. Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion statement Princeton University Library (PUL) is committed to building a culture in which people of all backgrounds, identities, and perspectives feel valued as individuals. We recognize that our varied cultures, races, ethnicities, genders, ages, religions, languages, physical and neurocognitive abilities, sexual orientations, socioeconomic statuses, geographic origins, and other ways in which we identify ourselves are among PUL’s greatest strengths. To ensure our success, we commit to: Building an inclusive environment for all members of our community. Creating inclusive physical and digital spaces. Assessing diversity, inclusion, equity, and belonging among staff on a regular basis. Identifying and implementing employee hiring and employment strategies aimed at recruiting and retaining staff from marginalized groups. Communicating with PUL staff on a regular basis and encouraging feedback by providing anonymous feedback tools. Developing, driving, and supporting diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) educational programming in collaboration with institutional partners for PUL staff and other stakeholders as appropriate. Continually reviewing, assessing, and updating this statement. Measuring and reporting our progress against our DEI goals. Creating an environment where people feel they belong and feel safe to present their authentic selves is a continuous individual and organizational responsibility. Only when we closely examine ourselves and our surroundings can we move beyond tolerance toward a culture that recognizes and celebrates the richness inherent in our individual identities, diverse perspectives, and myriad backgrounds. Read our statement on language in description. Read our statement on harmful content. Updated May 2022 Useful links Map of Campus Libraries Library Hours Staff Directory Library Jobs Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top