Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions East Asian Library The East Asian Library and the Gest Collection 普林斯頓大學葛思德東亞圖書館 ・ プリンストン大学東アジア図書館 ・ 프린스턴 대학교 동아시아 도서관 Skip to Main Content Section Menu Home Overview & History Library Access Finding Items in the Library Library Map (PDF) Using Rare Books Available Grants Using East Asian Scripts on Your Computer Ask Us a Question Today's Hours 8:30am - 4:30pm For summer, holidays or recess hours, please consult the full schedule. Contact Us Frist Campus Center gestcirc@princeton.edu (609) 258-3182 Fax: (609) 258-4573 The East Asian Library collects materials in practically all subjects in Chinese, Japanese, and Korean, as well as works on Chinese, Japanese and Korean linguistics and literatures in Western languages. Although the Gest Library was originally begun with the acquisition of many rare books, today it is the working collection that supports all kinds of research done in the Department and Program of East Asian Studies. Emphases in the makeup of the collection reflect the strengths of the department. Thus the collection is quite comprehensive in works on literature and history, with less stress placed on works in the social sciences. As is appropriate to the Chinese collection, it is also voluminous in philosophy and religion, geography and the classics; of special note is the collection on traditional Chinese medicine. The Japanese collection has similar areas of strength with the holdings in premodern history being particularly noteworthy. The Korean collection, though much smaller in scale than the other two, provides a basis for scholarly research. Latest News Trial access to Sin Wan Pao 新聞報, 1893-1949 Princeton, May 10, 2022: Princeton users now have trial access to Sin Wan Pao 新聞報, 1893-1949 Along with Shen Bao 申報, the early Shanghai newspaper Xin wen bao (Sin Wan Pao 新聞報), also known as "The... Zhongguo difang lishi wenxian shujuku = 中国地方历史文献数据库 Princeton, March 29, 2022: Princeton users have now permanent access to a database of Chinese Historical Local Archives,Zhongguo difang lishi wenxian shujuku 中国地方历史文献数据库. Access is available on the... Quan Song biji in the latest update to Zhonghua jingdian gujiku database Princeton, March 4, 2022: Princeton users have now permanent access to the 9th installment of the 中華經典古籍庫 database. Most importantly this update includes the complete 全宋筆記. Together with the... More East Asian Library News Research & Scholarship EAL LibGuides New Titles List The East Asian Library Journal Online Chinese Historiography Course Treasures of the EAL (Digitized Texts) On-Screen Keyboard Tutorial Databases & Tools Electronic Databases and Catalogs Chinese Rare Books Catalog Hishi Collection Catalog Shadow Figures Database OCLC Connexion Pinyin Converter AddPinyin Plugin for MarcEdit K-Romanizer Featured Resources Siku Quanshu China Digital Library (Apabi) Duxiu Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top