Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU HDS Home Email My.HDS HOLLIS ATLA Religion Database Search Google main search box code About Contact the Library Directions Hours Find Your Way Book a Group Study Room Library News Mission and History Research Tools Key Databases Essential Tools and Services M.Div. Senior Paper FAQ Citation Tools Research Guides How to Find Archives Help & Services Collections Religion Collections at Harvard Collection Strengths Special Collections Unitarian Universalist Resources Digital Collections Collections Beyond Harvard Ask Us HOME / News Explore our Theosophy Collections Online December 9, 2020 Our Theosophy collection includes handwritten letters and rare books related to Madame H.P. Blavatsky and the Theosophical Society. Helena Petrovna Blavatsky (1831-1891) was born in Russia and was one of the most influential writers in the occult world. In 1875, along with Henry Olcott and William Quan Judge, she founded the Theosophical Society to promote universal brotherhood, investigate laws of nature and latent human powers, and study comparative religion, philosophy, and science. Photograph of Madame Blavatsky; May 1887. BMS 516, Harvard Divinity School Library. The William Ellery Channing Collection - Online April 24, 2020 Andover-Harvard Theological Library announces access to The William Ellery Channing Collection. This digitized collection brings together letters and sermons including drafts of Channing’s sermon “Unitarian Christianity.” The widely published sermon laid out Channing’s theological vision and spurred much debate. William Ellery Channing (1780-1842), graduated from Harvard College in 1798. As a member of the board of... Read more about The William Ellery Channing Collection - Online HDS Library joins New England Regional Fellowship Consortium October 18, 2019 Andover-Harvard Theological Library is now a participant in the New England Regional Fellowship Consortium (NERFC). NERFC awards grants to researchers who use the resources of this library and other libraries in the Consortium. The application deadline for 2020-2021 research grants is February 1, 2020. Fellowship information and application available on the NERFC website. Read more about HDS Library joins New England Regional Fellowship Consortium The Library During the Renewal of Swartz Hall August 30, 2019 The library is open regular hours during the renovation. To accommodate the construction, we made a few changes inside the building. Following are details to help you organize your work for minimal disruption: Temporary Entrance: For the duration of construction, our entrance is directly across from Vanserg Hall off the Francis Avenue parking lot. See Directions,... Read more about The Library During the Renewal of Swartz Hall New Library Entrance! June 7, 2019 Due to a large construction project at HDS, the library has a new temporary entrance. The new entrance is located on the parking lot side (south side) of Andover Hall. It is across from Vanserg Building and the bike shelter. There is a ramp for wheelchair accessibility. Please have your Harvard ID to gain entrance into the library. Guests will still be able to sign-in with a photograph ID. Exhibit Opening: The Yoke of Bondage Christianity and African Slavery in the United States December 5, 2018 Opening December 5, our new exhibit is curated by Freshman Seminar 43D: Christianity and Slavery in America, 1619-1865 taught by Professor Catherine Brekus. On display will be original materials from our Special Collections, as well as reproductions from materials held at other Harvard libraries. At the reception, 4:30-6:00 on the 2nd floor of the library, the student curators will be on hand to discuss their selections, and the Kuumba Singers of Harvard College will perform, 5:00-5:30. The exhibit will remain on display until March 15, 2019... Read more about Exhibit Opening: The Yoke of Bondage Christianity and African Slavery in the United States Welcome, Unitarian Universalist Collegium! October 12, 2018 Andover-Harvard Theological Library welcomes researchers in town for the 2018 UU Collegium. Come visit us! Hours and Directions. Connect with a subject expert at Andover-Harvard Theological Library to locate information in our collections. Doing archival research? ...Read more about Welcome, Unitarian Universalist Collegium! Meet the Special Collections and Pamphlet Making October 11, 2018 Thursday, October 11 Meet the Special Collections Drop-in Hours 9 AM to 5 PM Make Your Own Pamphlet 2 to 4 PM Andover-Harvard Theological Library, Rabinowitz Room (3rd floor), Andover-Harvard Theological Library warmly invites you to come Meet the Special Collections! Drop by and get an up-close look at select items from the library’s Special Collections. Meet the curators, ask questions, make a pamphlet, or simply enjoy a sampling of unique and fascinating research materials from the 13th to the 20th century! ... Read more about Meet the Special Collections and Pamphlet Making Book Talk with Michel Mohr "Unitarianism in Japan: Unravelling Its Saga through the UUA Archives" September 28, 2018 Friday, September 28, 2018 | 1 p.m. Rabinowitz Room, Andover-Harvard Theological Library The story of the Unitarian mission to Japan started in the late 19th century, when representatives of the American Unitarian Association were invited by one of the leading intellectuals of the time, Fukuzawa Yukichi. This presence on Japanese soil led to an enthusiastic reception from the elite—to the point of becoming a fad—as large segments of the population were dreaming of making Japan the first cosmopolitan nation of Asia. By 1923, the popularity of the Unitarian approach decreased to the point of forcing the mission to withdraw from Japan. The disappearance of liberal Christianity, unsurprisingly, coincided with the rise of nationalism.... Read more about Book Talk with Michel Mohr "Unitarianism in Japan: Unravelling Its Saga through the UUA Archives" Emerson Popsicle Party July 12, 2018 "In this refulgent summer it has been a luxury to draw the breath of life." To celebrate the occasion of Ralph Waldo Emerson's Divinity School Address, July 15, 1838, join us for popsicles on Tuesday, July 17th between 2:00 and 3:30pm outside in the library courtyard. For more information about the address, visit http://www.emersoncentral.com/divaddr.htm ... Read more about Emerson Popsicle Party 1 of 7 ›› Latest News Explore our Theosophy Collections Online The William Ellery Channing Collection - Online HDS Library joins New England Regional Fellowship Consortium Share HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL LIBRARY 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 617.495.5788 my.hds | Harvard University | Harvard Library | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Trademark Notice | Reporting Copyright Infringements Copyright © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. HDS Library Styles Code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement