Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Special Collections Research Center Programming Special Collections Exhibitions Past Exhibitions Student Voices in Print Student Voices in Print Special Collections Research Center Special Collections Research Center Pages Navigation Special Collections Research Center Collections Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections Preservation and Conservation Services Education Programming Page featured image content Page main body content Bird Library (6th Floor), Bird Library (1st Floor) 02-07-2022 to 11-01-2022 Syracuse University holds a rich multitude of student voices, both now and throughout its history of campus life. Students have expressed their ideas, perspectives, and creativity through hundreds of campus publications. Encompassing both individuals and groups, student voices have advocated for a cause, shared inspiration, explored their passions, developed their talents, and engaged with the University community. Through the printed medium, students have learned to be leaders and artists and to express pride in their personal and collective identities. Student publications have been part of Syracuse University since its early days. The University Herald, the earliest known student publication on campus, was first printed in 1872. For 150 years, Syracuse University students have continued to publish newspapers, magazines, and newsletters covering a range of topics, including politics, popular culture, humor, social issues, and campus news. Using the power of print, Syracuse University students have found their voices as activists, poets, journalists, artists, and members of communities. Projecting those voices across campus has empowered them and helped prepare them for an ever-changing world. Preserving these voices in the University Archives as part of Syracuse University’s history acknowledges their value and hopefully inspires students of today and tomorrow to build upon this legacy in traditional and modern platforms. Curated by University Archivist Meg Mason. Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.