Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. McFarlin Home HOURS ASK US MY LIBRARY ACCOUNT Search the library website Go! ABOUT Events Fines & Fees History of McFarlin Library Hours Maps & Directions Message from the Dean Mission Staff Directory Welcome to the Library Video FIND MATERIALS ★ Search Summon ★ A-Z Database List Classic Catalog Course Reserves List Journal List Research Guides Textbook Reserves List GET HELP Ask a Librarian / Contact Us FAQ Quick Tips Videos Schedule a Virtual Appointment INFORMATION FOR Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate Students International Students Remote Learners Undergraduate Students Visitors LIBRARY SPACES Computer Lab & IT Help Desk Faculty Resource Center Group Study Rooms iClassrooms Writing Center SERVICES Book & Material Pickup Form Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Suggest a Purchase SPECIAL COLLECTIONS STUDENT JOBS COVID-19 GUIDE MORE LIBRARIES HCAR (Gilcrease Museum) MLIC (Law Library) McFarlin Library LibGuides Research Guides COVID-19 Library Updates & Resources Current McFarlin Library Services Search this Guide Search COVID-19 Library Updates & Resources: Current McFarlin Library Services An updated description of McFarlin Library's services during the COVID-19 pandemic and a list of COVID-19 resources Current McFarlin Library Services TU Campus Updates Government Resources Scientific and Medical Resources Further Information Current McFarlin Library Services The McFarlin Library is committed to supporting the information and research needs of all TU students, faculty, and staff as the campus shifts adjusts to COVID-19. As new information develops, we will update our website with any changes to our operating hours and services. The McFarlin Library is the academic hub of the TU campus, and we will strive to continue to offer exceptional services and resources to our community during this extraordinary time. (Updated 3.10.22) Building Access The McFarlin Library is open for the spring semester. Please visit our hours page for operating hours. We will post any changes to our hours on this page. We also have enacted enhanced cleaning procedures during library hours to clean study areas in between use. Library & Research Help The library can help answer your questions remotely by email, text, and phone. The library will be answering remote questions Monday – Thursday, 8am – 6pm, Friday, 8am – 5pm and Sunday, 1:30pm - 5pm. Students can also request a virtual video session with a librarian for more in-depth help finding resources and refining search questions. Email: mcfarlinlibrary@utulsa.edu Phone: 918-631-2871 Text: 224-357-6350 (22helpme50) Virtual Video Session: Fill out this online form to request an appointment. Learn more at https://libraries.utulsa.edu/help. Virtual Instructional Services Faculty can request library instructional sessions to support their teaching, including in-person, synchronous virtual, and asynchronous virtual. The library can also create a virtual resource guide or a video tutorial for your course. Learn more about requesting library instruction at https://libraries.utulsa.edu/Instruction. Lisa Grimes, our Student Success Librarian, has created several Quick Tip Video Tutorials that you can easily link to in your course. Department of Special Collections Entry into the Department of Special Collections and University Archives is currently by appointment only, with at least 1 day notice, and then only one person at a time. We will continue to supply distance Reference and Copies as well as we can, although there may be delays in copies. Learn more about Special Collections COVID services. Book Pick Up The book stacks are open for the spring 2022 semester. Please keep in mind that masks are currently required throughout the entire library. TU students, faculty, and staff can still request materials in our collection to be picked up at the library if they wish to do so. Visit the Book Retrieval page to make a request for books and other materials in our collection. Materials will be pulled and, in most cases, ready for pick up within one business day. Book & Material Returns Library materials can be returned to through the book drop located on the Southside of the building or at the library’s plaza circulation desk. TU students, faculty, and staff can log-in to My Library Account to view and renew library materials that they have checked out through the library. Course Reading Materials The library is resuming course reserves for the spring 2022 semester. Faculty can request that materials be placed on reserve via one of the online forms. You can search our print collection using the library’s online catalog, Summon. Requests for scanned materials can be placed through our Interlibrary Loan department. The McFarlin Library has a large number of online resources available for TU students, faculty, and staff, including databases, e-journals & e-books, and research guides. Our online content can be linked from your online course. Contact the library for help with any of our online resources: https://libraries.utulsa.edu/help. Interlibrary Loan Request materials that the library does not have access to through our Interlibrary Loan Service. Requesting items through ILL may take longer to obtain or may be unavailable due to restrictions from the lending library. See the Interlibrary Loan page for more information about requesting ILL materials. Next: TU Campus Updates >> Last Updated: Apr 13, 2022 8:44 AM URL: https://libraries.utulsa.edu/covid-19 Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. About Events Fines & Fees History of McFarlin Library Hours Maps & Directions Message from the Dean Mission Staff Directory Welcome to the Library Video Find Materials ★ Search Summon ★ A-Z Database List Classic Catalog Course Reserves List Journal List Research Guides Textbook Reserves List Get Help Ask a Librarian / Contact Us FAQ Quick Tips Videos Schedule a Virtual Appointment Information For: Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate Students International Students Remote Learners Undergraduate Students Visitors Library Spaces Computer Lab & IT Help Desk Faculty Resource Center Group Study Rooms iClassrooms Special Collections Writing Center More Libraries HCAR (Gilcrease Museum) MLIC (Law Library) Services Book & Material Pickup Form Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Suggest a Purchase Site Policies Digital Accessibility Policy The University of Tulsa · McFarlin Library · 2933 East 6th Street · Tulsa, OK 74104-3123 · (918) 631-2871 · Facebook Library Staff Login (Libguides) · Print this page