Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Special Collections Research Center University Archives University Archives Special Collections Research Center Special Collections Research Center Pages Navigation Special Collections Research Center Collections Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections Preservation and Conservation Services Education Programming Page featured image content Photograph of Syracuse University campus and its buildings, dated 1914 Page main body content The University Archives is dedicated to collecting, preserving, and providing access to records that document the history of Syracuse University from its founding in 1870 to the present. This includes: Records of Chancellors and the Board of Trustees Records of schools, colleges, and departments Papers of faculty, staff, and alumni Records of student organizations University and student publications Audio and moving image recordings Photographs, slides, and other visual images Memorabilia Dissertations and master’s theses Materials in the University Archives are available for research to all members of the Syracuse University community and to the public. However, some University records are restricted in accordance with University Archives policy or federal law. The University Archives works with colleges, schools, departments, and other campus offices to appraise and select non-active records for preservation and students and student organizations, alumni, and faculty to collect materials that document Syracuse University life and history. We especially seek to collect records documenting historically under-represented students, faculty and staff at Syracuse University, including those who are Black, Indigenous, and people of color as well as those identifying with marginalized genders and sexualities, members of under-represented religious groups, and those with disabilities. For inquiries about University records transfers or donations, please contact the University Archives. Buildings of SU Photographs and information on the University's architectural heritage dating back to our first rented classroom space in 1871. COVID-19 Collecting The University Archives is collecting personal experiences of Syracuse University students, faculty and staff about the COVID-19 pandemic. History of SU Historical information of general interest, including Commencement speakers, a history of the buildings on campus, and our lineage of Chancellors. Pan Am Flight 103/Lockerbie Air Disaster Archives Dedicated to the 270 men, women and children whose lives were lost in the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland on December 21, 1988. Right aside items Contact Us: Syracuse University Libraries Special Collections Research Center (SCRC) 222 Waverly Ave Bird Library, Room 600 Syracuse University Syracuse, NY 13244-2010 scrc@syr.edu 315.443.2697 Related Links Finding Aids General SCRC Request FORM SCRC Blog SCRC Exhibitions Search Catalog Visit SCRC Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.