Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Library Access Skip to Main Content Section Menu Library Access Home Faculty/Professional Staff Students University Staff University Affiliates Alumni Visitors Circulation Policies Course Reserves Limited Access Note PUL is allowing a limited number of visitors with urgent research needs and a connection to the Princeton research community. To submit a request for consideration, please visit the EHS visitor page and complete the form linked on the right. Your sponsor must be a Princeton University faculty member, staff member, or graduate student. Please note that the Library will need to approve this form, not the sponsor's department head. Send completed forms to refdesk@princeton.edu and include the collections that are required to complete on-site research. Allow three business days for review of requests. Special Collections is accepting appointments for non-Princeton researchers on a very limited basis. Visitors interested in researching within Special Collections must first contact the department through their Ask Us! form. Requests to visit Special Collections will only be considered through this form. The Princeton University Library serves the teaching, research and scholarly activities of the University faculty, students, and staff. Access and borrowing privileges are provided to individuals who hold a valid Princeton University identification card (TigerCard) with photograph. Affiliate Card Holder Update TigerCard holders, including eligible family members and those assigned a TigerCard when they began employment at an affiliate organization, are once again welcome in the Library. To regain access to Library buildings and borrowing privileges, please complete this Covid-19 vaccination attestation form. Please allow two business days for Library access to be reactivated. If you do not yet have a Library account for borrowing privileges, please contact Firestone Circulation at fstcirc@princeton.edu. Get Help Ask a Librarian Email a Librarian Find Your Subject Librarian Phone Research Guides Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top