Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU HDS Home Email My.HDS HOLLIS ATLA Religion Database Search Google main search box code About Contact the Library Directions Hours Find Your Way Book a Group Study Room Library News Mission and History Research Tools Key Databases Essential Tools and Services M.Div. Senior Paper FAQ Citation Tools Research Guides How to Find Archives Help & Services Collections Religion Collections at Harvard Collection Strengths Special Collections Unitarian Universalist Resources Digital Collections Collections Beyond Harvard Ask Us HOME / COLLECTIONS / Unitarian Universalist Resources Harvard Divinity School Library serves as a national repository and library of record for the Unitarian Universalist tradition. Its collections includes books, hymnals, periodicals, curricula, pamphlets, sermons, personal papers, audio-recordings, movies, church records, photographs, postcards, digital, and many other types of materials. These pages have been created to give an overview of its Unitarian Universalist resources in the general and special collections and to suggest ways of using them. Use the links on the left to explore highlights of the collection. There are additional Unitarian Universalist resources available on the library's website: Harvard Divinity School Library Manuscripts and Archives Flickr collections: Over 2,200 images. Includes most of the library's Unitarian Universalist postcards and a small selection of digitized photos of people and buildings. Use the collections tags Unitarian Universalist Congregations: A bibliography of publications and manuscripts in the public domain that chronicle major events events in the life of historically Unitarian and Universalist congregations in the United States. Timeline of Significant Events in the Merger of the Unitarian and Universalist Churches During the 1900s Holocaust Rescue and Relief: Digitized records of the Unitarian Universalist Service Committee Religious Biographical and Genealogical Information: This guide describes a process for doing biographical research and what resources the library has to support that research. A section of the guide specifically addresses resources for researching Unitarian, Universalist, and Unitarian Universalist clergy. Reflections of Public Ministry at Harvard Divinity School and other online exhibits, many of which feature Unitarian Universalist material. We use input from the community to decide what gets digitized. Tell us what you’d pick Contact a research librarian to ask questions about our resources. Information about the sources of our collection is found in the History of the Harvard Divinity School Library's Unitarian Universalist Collections. Collections Religion Collections at Harvard Our Collection Strengths Special Collections Unitarian Universalist Resources Congregations Organizations People Publications History of the UU Collections Obtaining Resources by Interlibrary Loan Digital Projects Collections Beyond Harvard See Weekly Hours Featured Image Lyon, David Gordon Photograph ... Read more about Lyon, David Gordon HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL LIBRARY 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 617.495.5788 my.hds | Harvard University | Harvard Library | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Trademark Notice | Reporting Copyright Infringements Copyright © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. HDS Library Styles Code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement