Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Service Lamont Multimedia Lab Your one-stop shop for media creation and data visualization, including editing and production for audio and video. Help Hours Whether you’re working on a podcast, a video, or want to incorporate some data visualization into your project, we can provide in-person or remote support. To request an appointment, please email us with some information about what you’d like to do and we will pair you with an appropriate specialist. We are happy to work with individuals or small groups. Troubleshooting something right now? Virtual Office Hours Virtual Media Lab Looking for online resources on podcasting, making videos, virtual reality, or 3D modeling? Interested in attending virtual workshops or demos? Have questions about how other members of the Harvard community are using media? The Virtual Media Lab is here to help you further develop your skills, share your work, and meet other folks who are interested in all things media. Learn More Welcome to the Media Lab Located on B-level of the Lamont Library in the main reading room, the Media Lab has everything you need for media creation, editing and production. In the lab you can: Create Media Music: Use USB midi keyboards and music notation software to create music Visual media: Make videos, animations, visualizations, photos, posters, and more Big screens: Use our external monitors with your own machines Import and Export Media Audio: CDs, LP/records, cassette tapes Video: DVD, VHS, camera footage Visuals: Photos, slides, filmstrips, and positives/negatives Burn: CDs/DVDs/Blu-ray Workshops Looking for training on film editing software, podcasting skills, data visualization, and more? See the Media& series page for a listing of scheduled workshops and talks. Equipment We are currently updating our equipment records to create an easier-to-use catalog. A partial list of our equipment is available via HOLLIS. Browse equipment Media Equipment You Can Borrow From The Lamont Circulation Desk This equipment is available for 24-hour checkout with your Harvard ID: Cameras (Canon & Nikon DSLRs, Sony and Fujifilm Mirrorless, and Canon HD camcorders) (2) 360-degree Samsung cameras 35, 50, & 85mm Nikon prime lenses Dual Shure SM58 microphone podcasting field kit Tascam DR-40 audio recorders w/ 3.5mm lav mic adapters SD cards Photo and video tripods, plus mini tripod & phone mount kits Large LED lights with stands Green screen, black, and white backdrops with stand On-camera shotgun mics Snowball and Yeti USB mics Audio Technica wired lav mics w/ adapters for mobile phone recording Optoma Projectors More Equipment You Can Borrow From The Lamont Circulation Desk This equipment is available for 3-hour checkout with your Harvard ID: Laptops Dell & Mac models Adapters/Dongles Mini display port to VGA adapter USB-C to VGA USB-C to USB-A male/female USB-C to USB-A cable USB-C to HDMI Lightning to headphone adapter for iPhone / iPad DVI to VGA Chargers Apple Lightning charger for iPhones USB-C 61W Charger for 13” MacBook Micro USB & Adapter Mag Safe and Mag Safe 2 Apple Chargers (older Mac models) Dell Charger & Inspiron Charger (for some pre-USB-C PC models) Headphones & Microphones Sony and Sennheiser Headphones Logitech Desktop USB Microphone Dragon USB microphone headsets (headphone with integrated mic) Calculators Lamont Library Calculator - TI-83 Plus Lamont Library Calculator - TI-NSPIRE CX Charging cable for TI-NSPIRE Micro USB to USB for TI-NSPIRE CX Other 3 hour loan equipment SD & Micro SD Card Reader USB-C and USB-A Mouse 32G Flashdrive Apple DVD Drives HDMI Cables Equipment available for use in the Media Lab In addition to the machines in the lab — scanners, DVD, VCR, DAT, audiocassette, and LP import devices — we also have: Data transfer cables and adapters (USB A & C, HDMI, and more) Various HDMI and VGA cables to connect machines to monitors or projectors Hard drives for transferring projects from one machine to another Headphones and Headphone splitters SD and multi-card readers (connect via USB 3) USB CD/DVD and Blu-ray players/burners These items can be borrowed from the student assistant in the lab during staffed hours. Software Here's a look at the specialized software available on Media Lab computers in Lamont Library. Media Lab Video & Audio Stations The following software is available on the Audio & Video stations in the Media Lab. Adobe 2021 full suite Tableau QGIS+ StataMP ScreenFlow AutoCad Maya Sketchup Unity Gear 360 (Samsung 360 rendering utility) HandBrake Reaper DAW with Focusrite Scarlett 18i/8 interface — LAM-MEDIA-11 station only MuseScore — LAM-MEDIA-11 station only Audacity Blender DaVinci Resolve Final Cut Pro Motion Express Scribe R RStudio Sketch Balsamiq Mockups NVivo Media Lab Data & Data Visualization Stations The following software is available on the Data & Data Visualization stations in the Media Lab. Adobe 2021 full suite Tableau OpenRefine Gephi Cytoscape LIWC 2015 — MP13 and MP14 stations only Media Lab Annex The Media Lab Annex, Room 310 on the 3rd floor of Lamont Library, has Mac and Windows operating systems. Here's what software is available: Mac Adobe 2021 suite Audacity AutoCad Maya EndNote X7/X8/X9 Final Cut Pro HandBrake iMovie Microsoft Office NVivo QLab SketchUp Tableau Unity MS Visual Studio Windows Aeon Client Autodesk 3ds Max Autodesk Revit IronPython 2.7 Microsoft Office NVivo OCLC Connexion Zotero Suggestions for new equipment? We want to hear from you! Tell us what gear you think the Media Lab should purchase next. Email Us Services We Offer Drop by during our help hours and one of our student media consultants can show you how to use our equipment or software, or help you with your own machine. We also offer other ways to get help and make use of our equipment. Consultations A consultation is the best way to get personalized help with a project or get more in-depth questions answered. Make an Appointment Workshops & Classes We regularly hold custom workshops for groups of three or more. Email us with your topic of interest and we'll start the planning process. Plan a workshop Email Help Have a quick question like: "How do you do that in Photoshop?" Send us an email and we'll get back to you with possible solutions. Email Us Service Large-Format Printing Need to print poster-sized or larger? The Lamont Multimedia Lab's large-format printer can print up to 41.5 inches wide and 100 feet long. Work in the Media Lab Interested in working at the Media Lab? We offer flexible hours for students throughout the year, including the summer. Shifts typically run two to four hours between 9 a.m. and 10 p.m. We look for candidates with some experience making media and an interest in learning more. We tend hire toward the beginning of each semester: spring, fall, and summer. If you're interested in working with us or want more information contact us. More Media and Tech Resources Harvard is a good place to be if you want to make media. lyndaCampus: An online training resource for the Harvard community Instructional Media Services: Rental Equipment IQSS Computer Lab at CGIS lyndaCampus: An online training resource for the Harvard community Instructional Media Services: Rental Equipment IQSS Computer Lab at CGIS For Faculty: Hauser Digital Studio For Faculty: Instructional Media Services Recording Services Show LessShow More Related Services & Tools Service Visualization Support Get help and training with data visualization design and tools—such as Tableau—for the Harvard community. Service Digital Mapping and GIS Support Get help with maps, mapping, geographic information systems, and other geospatial tools, as well as cartographic design. Service Cabot Media Studios Everything you need to produce high-quality audio and video recordings. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.