Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Collections Judaica Digital Collection The Judaica Collection's many digital materials document the life and culture of the Jewish people, with particular focus on life and culture in Israel. Zvulun Hammer, the education minister of Israel, visits the Israel Broadcasting Authority, 1991. View Details. Judaica Collection, Widener Library Judaica digital resources are available in a variety of formats. Books and Pamphlets Some 11,400 books and pamphlets in the public domain from the Judaica Collection (chiefly in Hebrew, Yiddish, German and Russian) have been digitized. Ephemera The single largest component of the digitized Judaica Ephemera Collection — some 250,000 items — consists of posters and broadsides published in Israel over the past 100 years. They document politics, theater, music, dance, art, religion, and commerce. In addition, there are large collections of ephemera from the United States, Latin America, and Europe — both current and retrospective — chiefly in the areas of religious life, and political and cultural activities. Map of Tel Aviv's growth (1924) from the Central Zionist Archive. View Details. Judaica Collection, Widener Library Maps Harvard boasts a collection of 117,000 digital maps of Israel, including maps of cities, towns and regions as well as design plans focusing on specific topics. Sound Recordings Some 2,000 hours of Israeli radio news broadcasts from Kol Yisra’el (Israel Broadcasting Authority) are available online. Photographs With some 5.5 million photographs available, the Judaica Division Digital Photograph Collection offers insight into virtually all facets of Jewish life in Israel. Among the collections are historical photographs that document: the history of the Zionist movement and the development of the Jewish community in Israel over the past century (from the Central Zionist Archives and the Jewish National Fund Archive) images documenting everyday Israeli life over the past 50 years, including contemporary Israel (from the archives of photographers including Eldad Rafaeli, David Harris, Yitshak Amit, Reuven Milon, Israel Haramati, and Assaf Shilo/Israel Sun Ltd.) photographs of Jewish life in the Galilee, especially kibbutzim (from the archives of kibbutzim in the Galilee through a project with the Yigal Alon Center) Scene from the Cameri Theater production of "Family Story," photographed by Israel Haramati, 1997. View Details. Judaica Collection, Widener Library photographs documenting Israeli theatrical, dance and music performances (from the archives of photographers including Gerard Allon, Gadi Dagon, Eyal Landesman, and Yossi Zwecker) and Israeli art (from the Center for Jewish Art Archive at the Hebrew University, the Israel Museum, and the Israel Cartoon Museum) and architecture (from the archive of Dan Tsur and Lipa Yahalom, the Ben-Uri Museum, and the Israel Architecture Archive) Jewish, especially Yiddish, theater in pre-World War II United States and Europe History of the Harvard Judaica Collection A collection of digital materials documenting the Harvard Judaica Collection, including publications and publicity materials, as well as photographs. Accessing These Materials All the Judaica Digital Collection materials are cataloged and searchable in HOLLIS. Photographs and ephemera can also be searched through HOLLIS Images. Materials in the public domain are freely available to all. Materials under copyright can be accessed by Harvard affiliates using their HarvardKey. For information about publishing any of these materials, please contact the Judaica Division. View Images Online Contact Violet Radnofsky email: Email Phone number 617-495-3335 Related Collections Collection Judaica Collection Collection Judaica Collection Documents the life and culture of the Jewish people, with particular comprehensive coverage of life and culture in the State of Israel. Collection Harvard Yiddish Theater Collections Collection Harvard Yiddish Theater Collections Explore scripts, programs, posters, music, papers, photographs, recordings and memorabilia from some of the most renowned practitioners of Yiddish Theater. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.