Clemson University A-Z Index Phonebook MENUMENU Find & Borrow Find Books, Articles & More Databases Journals Course Reserves Research & Course Guides WorldCat Borrow Technology Interlibrary Loan PASCAL Delivers Scan and Deliver Off-Campus Delivery Service Explore - State Park Passes Borrowing Privileges Unique collections Gunnin Architecture Library Digital Collections Education Media Center & Digital Media Learning Lab Special Collections and Archives TigerPrints Help Finding Library Materials Borrowing Help Offsite Shelving Circulation Policies Library Fines and Fees Proxy Card Service Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Research & Teaching Research Support Research & Course Guides Citation Management Subject Librarians Undergraduate Research Award Teaching Support Course Instruction Workshops Tutorials Course Reserves Open Educational Resources (OER) Digital Scholarship & Publishing Data Services Digital Projects Support Publishing & Copyright Clemson University Press Help Getting Started with Research Proxy Card Service Purchase Request Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Study & Create Study Spaces Library Locations Learning Commons Creative Spaces Adobe Digital Studio Brown Digital Lab Cooper Makerspace Digital Media Learning Lab Geospatial Center Scholars’ Lab Amenities Starbucks - Cooper Library POD - Cooper Library Reflection Room Help Find Printers & Scanners Academic Success Center CCIT Support Center Michelin Career Center Writing Lab Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions About Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Locations & Parking Floor Maps Our Organization Welcome from the Dean News Staff Directory Policies Accessibility Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Library Residents Program Strategic Plan Organizational Chart Libraries Reorganization Overview Cooper 2.0: A Vision for the Future Employment Opportunities Clemson Libraries Advisory Committee Library Depot Giving Giving Home Honor with Books Fund Friends of the Libraries Help Contact Us Records Management Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Make a Suggestion R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU My Account Giving Help Clemson Libraries COVID-19 Updates Clemson Libraries remains committed to providing quality library services and spaces while addressing the challenges created by the COVID-19 pandemic. During Spring 2022, the Libraries will follow University lead to remain physically open to serve the Clemson family while continuing to provide virtual access to many of our services. Jump to a section What to Expect Library Materials Books & Technology Equipment Course Reserves Library Access Who Can Access the Library and Library Materials Special Collections and Archives Gunnin Architecture Library Education Media Center Building Hours Library Services Printing Research Consultations Instruction Creative Technology Starbucks & POD What to Expect Appointments no longer required. Appointments are no longer necessary for library entry, studying, or printing. However, classrooms and group study rooms are still available by appointment only. Masks are strongly encouraged in library facilities. For the safety of our employees, your fellow students, and yourself, we would appreciate it if you would wear your mask. Library access restricted to Clemson students, faculty and staff. During the Spring 2022, we will be limiting access to library materials and buildings to only Clemson students, faculty, and staff. You will need to bring your ID with you to access the building. Libraries at normal capacity. Real-time capacity information will be available on my.Clemson and on the library website. Bring your laptop. We have a limited number of public computers. Please plan to bring your laptop or other technologies to use. Library Materials Books & Technology Equipment SPRING 2022 Materials can be requested online from our Findit@Clemson tool and picked up at the Services Desk of any library location. All Clemson Libraries are open to Clemson students, faculty and staff. Books, journals, and other materials from other libraries (ILL and PASCAL) available. Books can be returned in one of the three bookdrops outside of Cooper Library, or at the Gunnin Architecture Library or Education Media Center. Cooper bookdrops can be found outside the front doors or on the ground level on each side. Please return technology equipment to the Library Services Desk. Course Reserves Physical reserves are available. Ebook and streaming purchases are possible to support online course delivery and research. Visit our Course Reserves page or contact your Subject Librarian for more information. Library Access Who Can Access the Libraries and Library Materials Library materials and buildings will only be accessible to Clemson students, faculty and staff. Unfortunately, the COVID-19 Pandemic has required us to examine our services and how we can redirect resources and personnel to best accommodate instruction support on campus and online. As a result, for Spring 2022, those entering libraries on campus will be required to swipe in with their University ID . This means that community members will not have access to the library or to materials. Instead, we’d like to redirect community access users to your local public branch libraries for any immediate needs. We look forward to being able to serve you again soon. Special Collections and Archives Special Collectives and Archives available by appointment only. Digitization of some materials is available by request. If you have any questions, you can reach the via email at archives@nullclemson.edu or call 864-656-5176. Gunnin Architecture Library Access to Lee Hall is restricted to students and faculty with a valid Clemson ID and cleared COVID status. Education Media Center Access to Tillman Hall is restricted to students and faculty with a valid Clemson ID and cleared COVID status. Building Hours Library Building Spring Hours Cooper Library Cooper Hours Gunnin Architecture Library Gunnin Hours Education Media Center EMC Hours Special Collections and Archives Special Collections Hours Charleston Design Library Mon – Fri noon – 4 p.m. Sat/Sun Closed Library Services Printing Printing and scanning are available . Visit our Printing page for more information and updated printer locations. Research Consultations Patrons who need assistance can stop by our Services Desk to request research and reference support. Questions can also be answered online via chat, email, or text, through the Ask Us service. Clemson faculty, staff, and students can schedule appointments with librarians through the appointment scheduler. Instruction Library instruction for courses will be provided. Please contact your Subject Librarian to make arrangements. Creative Technology The Adobe Digital Studio (ADS), Cooper Makerspace, Digital Media Learning Labs (DMLL) are open. Please visit the ADS page for more info. Starbucks & POD The Cooper Starbucks and POD will reopen for the Spring semester. Clemson University Libraries 116 Sigma Drive, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3027 Directory Employment Contact Us