Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Students Students Page main body content Whether you're an undergraduate or graduate student, on-campus or remote, the Libraries is here for you! Most Libraries services are free and available to use with your SU or SUNY-ESF ID. Undergraduate services are available to all students. Don't hesitate to reach out to us if you need help. Frequently Used Services Toggle Using the Libraries Content Accessibility and Assistive Technology We provide accessibility software on our workstations (including Read and Write Gold and JAWS) and other technology in the Joel and Barbara Zelnick Assistive Technology Room 123 in Bird Library. Through our Alternate Format Service, qualifying individuals can receive accessible version of any materials we own, license or can procure Request, Pickup and Delivery Services. Borrowing You can borrow books, compact discs, videos/DVDs, and games. You also have access to remote databases, use of library computers and study rooms. Borrow laptops, calculators, audio video equipment, accessories and more. Connecting from Off-Campus If you're a remote or online student and need to access our resources, visit Connecting from Off Campus. SU affiliates who reside more than 30 miles from campus may request to have items from SU Libraries’ collections shipped via UPS to their residence (Request UPS delivery of item). To request an item be delivered to you: Find the item in our catalog. Once the item is identified, select “Request this item.” Complete the form including your preferred delivery method, then Submit Request. You will receive a confirmation email that your request is being processed. Once the item is available, you will receive another email with directions about picking the item from your preferred pickup location or having it delivered via UPS to your residence if more than 30 miles from campus. Electronic Delivery Articles-to-go provide electronic delivery of articles and book chapters scanned from the Libraries' print periodical, microfilm/fiche and book collections. Entrepreneurial Services, including Prize Competitions If you're interested in pursuing entrepreneurial endeavors, the Blackstone LaunchPad is a cross-campus innovation hub connecting you to a global network of support. The LaunchPad also sponsors a number of pitch competitions with cash prizes throughout the year. For more information, email launchpad@syr.edu. Forms Looking for a Libraries' form? Go to Get Help. Locating Course Materials Placed on Reserve Borrow course materials in print and online reserved by faculty through Course Reserves. Lost and Found If you've misplaced something in Bird Library, you can stop by Room 125 or complete the Lost Property Form. Printing and Technology The Libraries has over 150 public computer workstations available with a variety of software pre-installed. The Technology Desk on the 1st floor of Bird Library provides in-person help with poster/large format plotter printing, black and white and color printing, scanning, copying and wireless access. For more information, visit the Printing and Technology page or watch How to Print VIDEO. Tutoring and Academic Coaching The Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) on the lower level of Bird Library provides one-on-one and group tutoring and academic coaching. Workshop Series The Libraries offers a series of workshops each semester at both the Undergraduate and Graduate level. Toggle Request, Pickup and Delivery Services Content Link to Request, Pickup and Delivery to: Borrow research items not available in the SU Libraries from other libraries via Interlibrary Loan. Request and hold physical items from SU Libraries to be picked up at your preferred SU Library location. Article to Go provides electronic delivery of articles and book chapters from both Syracuse University Libraries and other libraries collections. Delivery services, including Library to Go to graduate student department offices, and ship items to remote students who live more than 30 miles from campus. Request Electronic Articles The Libraries provide electronic delivery of articles and book chapters scanned from the our print periodical, microfilm/fiche and book collections. This service is free and available to current SU faculty, staff and students for items located in the Syracuse University Libraries' Storage Facility. For items located in Bird, Carnegie or King + King Architecture Library, the service is limited to current SU faculty, staff and graduate students. Most articles will be delivered within two business days. Submit your request for Articles to Go. Request and Hold for Pickup Anyone with a valid SU or SUNY-ESF ID can borrow items from our physical circulating collections at Bird Library, Carnegie Library or King + King Architecture Library. Users are also able to request items through the library catalog, which can be pulled and held for pick up. Pickup location options include: Bird Library Contactless Pickup Lockers (located near Waverly Street entrance), Bird Library Check Out desk, Carnegie Library service desk, and King + King Architecture Library service desk. To request that an item to be pulled and held for you: Find the item in our catalog. Once the item is identified, select “Request this item.” Complete the form including your preferred delivery method, then Submit Request. You will receive a confirmation email that your request is being processed. Once the item is available, you will receive another email with directions about picking the item from your preferred pickup location or having it delivered via UPS to your residence if more than 30 miles from campus. How to Use Bird Library Lockers VIDEO How to request a book through interlibrary loan VIDEO. Toggle Spaces Content Exhibit Your Creative Work Interested in exhibiting your creative work in one of Bird Library's spaces? We work with students to display your creative products to a larger audience, providing guidance on how to mount, frame, label, hang, or display your work for exhibition. We've hosted installations, exhibits featured in display cases, and artwork on walls. To begin the process, complete this Exhibition Form. Film and Photograph Requests If you're looking to take photos or videos in the Libraries, including for academic projects, you must receive prior approval by Libraries’ Marketing and Communications office. Complete the Request to Film and Photograph Form. Table and Space Requests If you want to setup a table in Bird Library for outreach on class assignments, displays, educational programming or other campus promotions, complete the Request to Table Form. Study Rooms and Spaces The Libraries offers a variety of spaces, whatever your preference. Check out the Spaces page or spaces VIDEO, Reserve a Room or quiet spaces VIDEO for more information. Quiet spaces include the Quiet Reading Room on the lower level of Bird Library and the Reading Room in Carnegie Library. Toggle Research Content Citing Your Work, Citation Management Resources to help you cite your work are available. Subject librarians can help with a variety of citation formats and can serve as a resource when using management tools including Mendeley, Zotero and Endnote. Turnitin is a plagiarism checker available in Blackboard before submitting final drafts. Course Guides Our subject librarians have developed Course Guides to help in over 70 subjects. Digital and Open Scholarship Services The Libraries can provide information on open access publishing, authors' rights, Syracuse University's institutional repository (SURFACE), digital scholarship methods or assistance with publication agreements. Email dosteam@syr.edu or surface@syr.edu. Dissertation Writing For assistance with dissertation writing, review the Research Guides on Dissertations. Funding for Undergraduate Research The Syracuse Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) provides services and funding for undergraduate research and creative projects. With a faculty sponsor, students receive a stipend to work on research in your own field of interest. Research Data Services We support research and learning involving quantitative, qualitative, business and spatial data. We can advise you across the entire research lifecycle and can provide instruction in using analysis software. Assistance with Data Management Plans is available to comply with funder mandates. For more information, email datasvces@syr.edu. Research Help Libraries staff can provide you with coursework and research support. We offer Research Guides in more than 250 topics curated by librarians to help you start your research. We provide Citation Help with a variety of styles and the tools to manage them. Contact your Subject Librarian or stop by the Information Desk on the 1st or 3rd floors of Bird Library, Carnegie Library or King+King Architecture Library. Helpful research videos include: Research Starting Points VIDEO Searching with Summon VIDEO Finding Journal Articles VIDEO Research Impact Services We can help you measure the scholarly impact of your research through various means, including searching indexes, examining citations and viewing social media. Profiling sites, such as LinkedIn and Experts@Syracuse, as well as institutional and professional open repositories (like SURFACE) are important tools for increasing impact. For help, email riteam@syr.edu. Toggle Collections Content Our general collections include print and online resources, databases and digital collections, journals, magazine and newspapers, maps and government information, videos and music, and even games, wellness materials and more. Watch this video on how to find a book. Link to Digital Collections. For information on finding the materials you need, contact libref@syr.edu. For help accessing materials from the shelves or offsite, contact circhelp@syr.edu. To access multimedia materials, email multimed@syr.edu. To make suggestions on adding materials to our collections, email colls@syr.edu. New Books and Little Free Bird On display on the 1st floor of Bird Library and available to borrow, the New Books area features special thematic selections and SU authors. A limited selection of fiction books is also available to borrow. Little Free Bird bookshelf (see VIDEO) in Bird Library near Pages Cafe is a free take one and/or leave one area featuring fiction and leisure reading. Special Collections Research Center Custom-designed instruction sessions can introduce you to methodologies of original research using historical and archival resources in a variety of formats. We provide access to rare printed materials, original manuscripts, photographs, artwork, audio and moving image recordings through Special Collections Research Center on the 6th floor of Bird Library. Contact scrc@syr.edu for information on collections or access. Project Advance Students Toggle Syracuse University Project Advance (SUPA) Content Access the SU Libraries' licensed database and journal resources from off-campus. When prompted to log in, enter your 10 digit SU ID number without spaces as the NetID and enter your last name (all lowercase) as the password. Note: If your SU I.D. is only 9 digits long, add a zero to the end. Project Advance faculty may request instruction for their students. SU librarians can teach students how to locate and use library resources and to conduct research effectively. Student Awards and Scholarships Toggle Mary Hatch Marshall Essay Award for Graduate Students in the Humanities Content Each year since 2004, the Library Associates presents the Mary Hatch Marshall Essay Award for the best essay written by a Syracuse University graduate student in the humanities. The award honors Mary Hatch Marshall, a co-founder of the Library Associates (1953), who holds a distinguished place in the College’s history. The Mary Hatch Marshall Award, which carries a cash prize of $1,000, is intended to honor and help perpetuate her scholarly standards and the generous spirit that characterized her inspirational teaching career, which lasted through her retirement in 1993. After Mary Hatch Marshall's death, Library Associates acknowledged her deep commitment to the organization since its founding. The 100th anniversary of Mary's birth and the 50th anniversary of Library Associates in 2003 provided the opportunity to establish the Mary Hatch Marshall Essay Award as a permanent memorial that would connect her passions for literature and the library. Members of Library Associates, Mary's friends and family, the Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation and the Central New York Community Foundation contributed to the endowment that funds this annual award. Part-time and full-time graduate students currently enrolled in the following departments and programs are eligible: African-American Studies; English; Art and Music Histories; Languages, Literatures and Linguistics (one each from French, Linguistics, and Spanish); Philosophy; Religion; Writing Studies, Rhetoric, and Composition; and the Department of Women’s and Gender Studies. Nominations are submitted by each of these programs to a faculty panel selected to judge the essays. About Mary Hatch Marshall Mary Hatch Marshall was a native of Scarborough, N.Y., a hamlet in Westchester County, and the daughter of a Presbyterian minister and professor. She graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Vassar College in 1924 and earned her Ph.D. in English from Yale University in 1932. After conducting research in medieval drama as a Guggenheim Fellow in 1945 and 1946, she joined the faculty of Syracuse University in 1948 as an English professor. Marshall became the first woman at Syracuse to achieve the rank of full professor in the College of Liberal Arts (today the College of Arts and Sciences) and held the Jesse Truesdell Peck Chair in English literature beginning in 1952. She also helped to establish the Honors Program and served as its first director. She was devoted to the library's essential role in the academic community. "The library was at the center of university life and the center of my life," she said. "I was horrified at the limitations of its usefulness when I arrived at SU and saw the need to increase its budget. I got on the library committee because I was vocal . . . . Chancellor (William P.) Tolley said I harassed him until he built a new library." Bird Library opened in 1972. Marshall retired from full‑time teaching in 1970 and was granted emeritus status, then promptly began a second career in adult education. She offered courses through the Humanistic Studies Center at University College until 1993. Her love of teaching bloomed into a career that lasted 69 years. Chancellor Melvin A. Eggers established the Chancellor's Citation for Academic Achievement in 1979 to recognize outstanding contributions in scholarship, research, teaching and creative work. Marshall received a Chancellor's Citation in 1980, one of many honors and awards she was given for her service to the University. In 1956 she received the Post‑Standard Award for Distinguished Service to the Syracuse University Library and in 1989 she became the third recipient of the University's Outstanding Teacher of the Year Award. Mary Marshall spent the last months of her life at her home on Sumner Avenue in Syracuse, supported by Hospice of Central New York and a large circle of loving friends and family. She died September 25, 2000, at age 97. Previous Award Winners 2022: Andrew Ridgeway, PhD student, Department of Writing Studies, Rhetoric, and Composition. Essay title: “Conspiracy Theories, Jouissance, and the Aristotelian Enthymeme” 2021: Lorenza D’Angelo, graduate student, Department of Philosophy. Essay titled: “Emotional Experience and the Senses” 2020: David Maynard, graduate student, Department of Writing Studies, Rhetoric, and Composition. Essay title: "The Science Is Not Enough: Evaluating Climate Change Appeals in Light of the Conservative Christian Apocalyptic Frame” 2019: Mark Muster, graduate student, English Department. Essay title: “Re-synching Queerness: Futurity in the Ephemeral in Andrew Haigh's Weekend and James Baldwin's Another Country” 2018: Thomas J. West III (T.J.), Ph.D. student, English Department. Essay title: "The Spirit is Willing, but the Flesh is Weak: Embodied Transcendence and Sacred Spectatorship in The Robe" 2017: Sean Clancy, Ph.D. student, Philosophy Department. Essay title: "Psychopaths, Ill-Will, and the Wrong-Making Features of Actions" 2016: Jess Pauszek, Ph.D. student, Composition and Cultural Rhetoric in the Writing Program. Essay title: "When Some Members Can’t Write: Building Alternative Educational Spaces From the Ground Up" 2015: Sara Swenson, Ph.D. student, Department of Religion. Essay title: "Subject to God: Ecumenical Monasticism and the Making of the Shared Self" 2014: Adam Kozaczka, Ph.D. student, English Department. Essay title: "Macbeth and the Britishing of the Scot: Harnessing Shakespeare for Unification Politics from the Eighteenth and into the Nineteenth Century" 2013: Andrew Specht, Ph.D. student, Philosophy Department. Essay title: "Rethinking the Neglected Alternative" 2012: Jessica Kuskey, doctoral student, English Department. Essay title: "Math and the Mechanical Mind: Charles Babbage, Charles Dickens, and Mental Labor in Little Dorrit" 2011: Sarah Barkin, doctoral student, English Department. Essay title: "Between the Museum and Comic Book: Dina Babbitt's Portraits and the Art of Bearing Witness" 2010: Joseph W. Denn, graduate student, Department of Languages, Literatures, and Linguistics. Essay title: "Le Mariage de Figaro comme théâtre et opéra : une comparaison des deux spectacles” (The Marriage of Figaro as Theater and Opera: A Comparison of the Two Works) 2009: Jonathan Singleton, doctoral student, English Department. Essay title: "Religion, Radicalism, and Sympathetic Reading in Gaskell's Mary Barton" 2008: Jessica Kuskey, doctoral student, English Department. Essay title: "Thomas Carlyle's ‘Pig Philosophy' and Charles Dickens's ‘Pip-Squeaker': The Image of the Pig on in Victorian Economics" 2007: Jonathan Singleton, doctoral student, English Department. Essay title: "Religious Nationalism in Uncle Tom's Cabin and the National Era" 2006: Cordell M. Waldron, doctoral student, Religion Department. Essay title: "Jeweled Chariots: The Metaphor of Motion in Japanese Buddhist Literature and Practice" 2005: Jonathan Singleton, master's student, English Department. Essay title: " ‘Reasonable Christianity' in The Moonstone and at Cawnpore: The Religion of Empire" 2004 (two winners): Stephanie Kuhlman, master's student, Fine Arts Department and Amy Robillard, Composition and Cultural Rhetoric Doctoral Program Toggle Student Employee Awards Content Every spring the Libraries recognize Libraries student employees . Annually, the Libraries employs over 150 students, both customer-facing and behind the-scenes, who help keep the Libraries running. Each year supervisors are asked to nominate student employees who have demonstrated dedicated service over time and significant contributions which have made a lasting impact on the Libraries. The Libraries recognize these students through the generous support of Kathy and Stanley Walters, Andrew Strait and friends, and other donors. Previous Award Winners 2022: Ankush Arora, Nicole Gutierrez, Benjamin Piers, Sophia Rose, Darnelle Stinfort, Alayna Vander Veer, Hyejun Yoo, Jane Abi-Habib, Gabrielle Baumert, Gregory Dachille, Devon Drabick, Taylor Drabick, Lauren Henry, Jason Wilborn, Ifetayo Dudley, Rachael Hickman, Charisma Leach, Ocean Noah, Lauren Quackenbush, Cristy Sanchez, Olivia Stevens 2021: Brittany Austin Waters, Maximillian Orgeron, Yasmeen Jones, Oliver Mack Jr., Omolara Akinfemiwa, Gabrielle Frazier, Natalie Edelstein, Lucy Wagner, Brienna Flewelling, Ian Coe, Kobi Wiseman 2020: Frankie Kennedy, Maialie Fitzpatrick, Jacqueline Natividad, Cameron Vazquez, May Gelsi, Mina Gurken, Austin Spencer, Isabel McCullough, Ashley Downs, Souradeepta Biswas 2019: Amanda Bottorf, Yazmin Curiel-Ruth, Kim Hoffman, Yasmeen Jones, Lucia Baex, Kayla Torres, Minchailou Kanoute, Lauren Merriwether, Pinaz Mehta, Shivanshi Rajendrakumar Bajpai 2018: Ellie Abels, Cecelia Dain, Katherine Overhaug, Michael Phillips, Nicolette Ward, Adrienne Canino, Sara Kern, Rafael Taveras, Moctar Toure 2017: Jenesis Gayden, Lauren Hoffacker, Ivy Liu, Advin Zhushma, Ashanna Mckenzie, Alexander Emerson, Eryn Stark 2016: Alexandra Slavin, Vincent Yuan, Lewis Paulino, Vanessa Amoah, Jennifer Jeffery, Silvana Paradiso, Zachary Schweikert Student Internships and Employment at the Libraries Toggle Student Employment Content All Syracuse University student employment opportunities are posted with the application available on Handshake. Preference is given for students awarded a Federal Work Study grant. Toggle Information Literacy Scholars Content The Libraries and the School of Information offer the Information Literacy in Academic Libraries Scholarship for incoming graduate students who are passionate about information literacy and interested in a career as an academic librarian. Information Literacy Scholars receive a 50% tuition award, 20 hours a week of paid work during the academic year with Syracuse University Libraries and mentoring by Syracuse University librarians with expertise in reference, information literacy instruction, and student learning assessment. Who is eligible to apply: On-campus M.S. in Library and Information Science applicants. Apply to be an Information Literacy Scholar through the School of Information. Toggle Special Collections Internships Content Internships for class credit are available in the following areas: Public Services - For graduate students working toward library and information science degrees. Primary duties include researching and responding to remote reference questions and working shifts on the Reading Room desk, where the intern will register and orient Reading Room patrons and answer in-person reference questions. Internships also include a special project as assigned. Manuscripts Processing - Hands-on experience in the arrangement and description of archival material. Past internships have included processing of one or more small collections from start to finish, including researching the archival content/context and writing/encoding an EAD finding aid; integration of new additions into existing collections and updating the finding aid; digitization of archival material and creation of accompanying metadata; and working with SCRC staff to assist in the processing of large, complex collections such as the Benjamin Spock and Marcel Breuer papers. Exhibitions - Each year, a student enrolled in Syracuse University's Museum Studies Program is selected as an exhibitions intern, working directly with a curator, for hands-on experience in the selection, preparation, and installation of exhibitions. Conservation - Learn more about library conservation and preservation issues by working in SCRC's Conservation Lab. Helpful Videos Most Popular Student Services Welcome to the Libraries How to Print How to Use the Bird Library Lockers How to Request a Book Through Interlibrary Loan How to Find a Book Right aside items Related Links Lost and Found: 315.443.1896 File a Lost Property Report Student Employment Opportunities on Handshake Login List of Subject Librarians Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.