CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Digital Imaging Services After a long pandemic break, Avery is once again accepting requests for new digital photography of materials in our three special collections. Thank you for taking note of the details below. Please direct all inquiries to the holding department (see below), where staff members will confirm your request. It will then be forwarded to the Imaging team for payment and execution. There will be a minimum turnaround time of eight weeks from the time of payment to the delivery of image files. In some cases there are existing files which will be available more quickly. Please write to Avery Imaging with any questions. Avery Classics avery-classics@library.columbia.edu Architectural rare books, treatises, dissertations and trade catalogs Drawings & Archives avery-drawings@columbia.edu Architectural drawings and archival collections Art Properties artproperties@library.columbia.edu Art objects owned by Columbia University Image use policy | Material research and selection | Turnaround time | Pricing and payment | File delivery | Imaging size and price guide | Permissions, copyright and credit lines Image use policy Avery's policy is to provide the digital image files (usually as TIFFs) representing our collection materials for publication, exhibition, or online use (including blog posts). Reference images taken by you in our reading room are for your research and study use only. Examples where Avery must provide images: Publication (book, journal article, exhibition catalog, in print or digital formats) Exhibition (reproduction to be displayed in a gallery, building lobby, etc.) Press (newspaper, magazine article) Online use (blog post, community forum) Examples where personal reference images are fine to use: Academic work (study purposes, coursework, teaching, conference presentations) Research for restoration purposes (by home/building owner, architecture/engineering firms) Internal reports not intended for publication (e.g. architecture/engineering firms) Curatorial approval is required for images used for exhibitions, model-building, publications in which the majority of images are sourced from Avery collections, or at the discretion of Avery Library staff. All images representing material in Avery’s collections must be appropriately cited and credited (see examples on how to cite our collections for Drawings & Archives and Classics). Material research and selection We strongly encourage onsite research in our collections, either by the researcher or by someone on their behalf. Due to limited resources, staff cannot conduct research on behalf of remote researchers. Users must plan enough time to conduct research to identify materials prior to placing an imaging order. Depending on the project, this process can take a few days to a few months. To request an image, please provide the following information about the material to the relevant holding department: Drawings & Archives: (1) a reference image of the item in question (2) collection name (3) box and folder numbers (4) item accession number (if available) (5) item title or brief description (6) intended use of the image Avery Classics: (1) call number (2) author (3) title (4) page or plate number(s), or reference image of plate(s) requested (5) intended use of the image Turnaround time The turnaround time for new imaging is eight weeks, minimum, from the time of payment to the delivery of image files. Please note that the time required for research and identification of material within our collections is not included in the eight weeks. The imaging team will confirm your order’s timeline for delivery before taking payment. Due to our ongoing imaging queue and out of fairness to all patrons, we are unable to accommodate rush requests. Pricing and payment Imaging costs begin at $50 for most materials, and increase if an object is oversized (typically this threshold is 35 x 42 inches), or in the case of large required output sizes. See price guide below. Usage fees may be incurred for exhibitions, print runs of a large scale or commercial nature, and book covers. Our imaging team will provide you with a final price quote before finalizing your order. Payment by credit card is preferred. We accept Mastercard or Visa and take credit card details over the phone (please call +1 212-851-0145). We also accept checks drawn from U.S. accounts. Your imaging request is considered confirmed once payment is received. This means the order is scheduled for photography and no further modifications can be made to the request. File delivery Once material has been photographed, the images are then checked for quality before they are delivered to the patron. The image file(s) we deliver will be printable at approximately 9 x 12 inches at a resolution of 300 DPI unless otherwise specified by Avery or requested by the patron. Requests for special sizing and special usage must be received before payment is received and the order is photographed. Images will be delivered via email using a WeTransfer download link. Please be advised that the download link expires seven days after delivery. Imaging size and price guide The charts below apply to the following formats: drawings, plates, paintings and photographic prints. Certain formats (e.g. three-dimensional material, plates with foldouts) and use types (e.g. exhibitions, book cover photos) may require a custom quote and/or involve additional fees. Prices increase if objects are of larger size and/or if a larger size/resolution is required. PRICE GUIDE FOR DRAWINGS, PLATES, AND PAINTINGS Object Size (max.) Required Captures Image Output Size Imaging Cost 35 x 42 inches 1 capture 300 PPI / 9 x 12 inches $50.00 35 x 50 inches 2 captures + 1 stitch 300 PPI / 9 x 12 inches $140.00 35 x 70 inches 3 captures + 2 stitch 300 PPI / 9 x 12 inches $230.00 35 x 90 inches 4 captures + 3 stitch 300 PPI / 9 x 12 inches $320.00 35 x 110 inches 5 captures + 4 stitch 300 PPI / 9 x 12 inches $410.00 PRICE GUIDE FOR PHOTOGRAPHIC PRINTS Object size (max.) Required Captures Image Output Size Imaging Cost 20 x 27 inches 1 capture 300 PPI / 9 x 12 incheces $25.00 Permissions, copyright and credit lines It is the responsibility of the user to secure permission from the appropriate copyright holder. In most cases, Avery Library owns only the physical object and does not assume responsibility for intellectual property, copyright, or other legal issues involved in the publication and reproduction of items from its collections. Click here for information on rights and reproductions. All images representing material in Avery’s collections must be appropriately cited and credited (see examples on how to cite our collections for Drawings & Archives and Classics). Sidebar Avery Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 300 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue M.C. 0301 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-6199 E-mail: avery@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Avery Library Links About Staff Related Links Avery Friends Avery Store Avery Library Blog Public Outdoor Sculpture at Columbia blog CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.