Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Instructional Services Instructional Services Page main body content Libraries' staff are available to provide instruction either in-person or virtually, on library resources and services, online research databases, the research process and subject-specific collections and research skills. Instruction is delivered by a diverse team of librarians who teach in a multitude of spaces, employ a variety of pedagogical approaches, and reach a wide range of student populations. Depending on your course goals, instruction can take place in several modalities. In-Person Instruction - We can meet with your students during your class time either in a teaching space in the Libraries or in your classroom. Online Instruction - We can meet with your students during your class time via Zoom or Blackboard Collaborate Ultra. Asynchronous Online Instruction - Libraries staff have created a variety of online tutorials and learning objects that can be added to your course. Faculty and course instructors may also consult with librarians to design instruction sessions and/or materials that best support course goals. Contact your subject librarians to discuss your needs. General Library Research Workshops - We offer a series of workshops throughout the year for students, faculty and staff. Faculty and course instructors can assign attendance at one or more workshops as an extra-credit activity. See the Libraries event calendar for details. Instruction and Information Literacy Toggle Special Collections Research Center Instructional Services Content The Special Collections Research Center offers in-person and virtual instruction sessions. With three or more weeks’ notice, SCRC staff can prepare an engaging instruction session with a limited number of items. Use our Special Collections and Archive materials as part of your teaching. Faculty are also encouraged to develop undergraduate and graduate courses around the divers and unique holdings. The Lemke Seminar Room on the 6th floor of Bird Library is available for faculty members who wish to present collection materials that relate to a particular class lecture. Or instruction sessions can be scheduled in the Belfer Audio Archive and Preservation Laboratory if incorporating sound recordings, sound playback equipment and other materials from the collection of the history of recorded sound. Fill out the SCRC instruction request form or email for more information scrc@syr.edu. Toggle Information Literacy: A Shared Competency Content Our Information Literacy Program is designed to assist all Syracuse University students in developing the skills to think critically with and about information. We deliver quality educational opportunities to advance the University's teaching and learning. We support students and faculty in developing skills to succeed in an increasingly complex information society through information discovery, understanding how information is produced and valued, and using information to create new knowledge and participate in communities of learning.* The Libraries offer a variety of programming to support learning, including in-person and online classes, events, library tours, information fairs and research workshops. We partner with academic departments in a variety of ways, including integration with first-year courses (such as WRT 105/205 and First Year Seminar), collaboration with Syracuse University Project Advance classes, faculty collaborations with the Special Collections Research Center and introductory and upper-division discipline-specific instruction by subject librarians. The Libraries also deliver information literacy instruction through reference consultations at service desks and by appointment, research support for study groups, roving reference, and learning objects such as research guides and online tutorials. *Association of College and Research Libraries, Framework for Information Literacy for Higher Education, 2015. Right aside items Related Links Instruction Request Form Learn at SUL Workshop Series Guide Online Teaching Resources Guide Special Collections Instruction Request FORM Subject Librarians For more information, contact: Kelly Delevan, Information Literacy Librarian kkdeleva@syr.edu Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.