Skip to main content Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Ask Yale Library My Library Accounts  My Library Accounts  My Account (Orbis) Special Collections Scan and Deliver Borrow Direct Interlibrary Loan Bass Media Equipment Hours Bass 8:30am - 10pm Lewis Walpole 10am - 4:45pm Beinecke Lillian Goldman Law 8am - 6pm Center for British Art 10am - 3pm Marx Science and Social Science 8:30am - 8pm Classics Closed Mathematics 8:30am - 5pm Cushing/Whitney Medical 7:30am - 12am Sterling 8:30am - 8pm Divinity 8:30am - 4:50pm Film Archive 1pm - 5pm Gilmore Music 8:30am - 8pm Manuscripts and Archives 10am - 4:30pm Haas Family Arts 8:30am - 5pm Search this sight Yale Library Go to search Find, Request, and Use  Find  Quicksearch Orbis Articles+ E-Journals Databases Archives at Yale Digital Collections FirstSearch (WorldCat) Request  Borrow Direct Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Course Reserves Scan and Deliver Purchase Request Mail to Address My Library Accounts Use  Borrowing and Circulation Off-Campus Access Special Collections Help and Research Support  Help  Request a research consultation Subject Specialists Personal Librarians Accessibility Services Research Support  Subject Guides Course Guides Copyright Basics Digital Humanities Geographic Information Systems (GIS) StatLab Research Data Management Library Workshops Citation Tools Visit and Study  Visit Information  Special Collections Printers and Scanners Places to Study Carrels and Lockers Media Equipment Room Reservations Borrowing Books Library Access and Use Libraries / Locations  Bass Beinecke Rare Book Center for British Art Classics Cushing/Whitney Medical Divinity East Asia Gilmore Music Haas Family Arts Lewis Walpole Lillian Goldman Law Marx Science and Social Science Mathematics Sterling Memorial Explore Collections  Explore  Collection Development Primary Sources Digital Collections Humanities Collections International Collections EliScholar Fortunoff Video Archive About Us  About  About Us Home Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Library News Events Exhibitions Staff Directory Jobs Library Prizes Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion DEI at Yale Library: Message from the University Librarian July 20, 2021 When I joined Yale University Library in July 2020, I pledged to put equity, diversity, and inclusion (DEI) at the heart of all we do. A year later, I see this work as even more critical and central to the library’s mission. Yale Library’s commitment to DEI is longstanding, and we continue to move forward—but we have a long journey still ahead. A key resource for me in my first year has been the Advisory Committee on Library Staff Diversity and Inclusion. With the committee’s assistance, we have finalized and now are implementing an action plan for recruiting and retaining a more diverse staff. As part of this effort, we have engaged to provide inclusive management training to all of the library’s managers and supervisors. This training program is critical for our ongoing efforts to ensure that our community is respectful and nurturing for all, that our spaces are welcoming, and that our services and programs fully meet the needs of our library users. We are in currently in a search for the newly created position of Director of Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Organizational Excellence. I look forward to working with this new colleague to develop and implement DEI strategies throughout the university library system, building on the good work that has been done by so many staff in many departments. Over the past 300 years, Yale Library has accumulated and preserved extraordinary collections that represent a vast diversity of the human experience. Our collections power teaching and learning, inspire research, and galvanize thinking on questions of the day through exhibitions, social media, and other forms of public outreach. Increasingly available and preserved in digital form, the collections support scholarship worldwide. Students’ immersion in library collections and engagement with our staff and services are distinctive and transformative elements of a Yale education. We recognize that service to the Yale community is our top priority, and this goal drives us to be better in every way. To fully support Yale’s educational mission, we must also strive to make our collections as discoverable and accessible as possible to research communities at Yale and beyond, and particularly to communities whose heritage may be represented in the collections. We are currently engaged in a broad review and revision of our Collection Development Philosophy, to be completed in the next few months. The goal of this work is to ensure that as we continue to add to and manage our collections, we will take into full consideration systemic inequities and bias and underrepresented views and experiences. Another milestone in our efforts to make collections more accessible and inclusive is the recent appointment of Michelle Light as Associate University Librarian for Special Collections and Director of the Beinecke Library. As an institution of great privilege, we are part of a system that has benefited from and perpetuated societal inequity and injustice. Grappling with this legacy includes recognizing that the descriptive language used in our archival records is far from neutral. The library’s Reparative Archival Description Working Group has developed a Statement on Harmful Language in Archival Descriptions to help guide the library in making the language in our finding aids, catalog records, and metadata more inclusive and respectful, and to weed out racist, sexist, colonialist, homophobic and other offensive or hurtful terms. Yale Library is a constellation of collections, spaces, technology, and people. In all these areas, there is potential for greater diversity, equity, and inclusion. In the coming months and year, I look forward to working with colleagues across the library and the university to build out this Web page with a fuller picture of our aspirations, efforts, and activities related to DEI. Like the critical DEI work we seek to move forward, this Web page is very much a work in progress. Please check back for updates and new information. —Barbara Rockenbach, Stephen F. Gates ’68 University Librarian Library News View All Library News Two seniors receive the 2022 Harvey M. Applebaum ’59 Award Maps and charts enhance, deepen content of award-winning senior essays Image Gallery: Congratulations, Class of 2022! Library exhibitions on view at Sterling and Beinecke over Commencement weekend Kaplan Prize recognizes seniors’ research in Yale Library collections View All Library News Exhibitions View all Exhibitions Knight Errant of the Distressed: Horace Walpole and Philanthropy in Eighteenth-Century London Senior Exhibit: We Are Everywhere: Lesbians in the Archive there are the ones who do see me: Celebrating Yale Women Artists Points of Contact, Points of View: Asking Questions in Yale Library Special Collections Brava! Women Make American Theater View all Exhibitions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Site Navigation Find, Request, and Use Help and Research Support Visit and Study Explore Collections About Us Ask Yale Library My Library Accounts Hours Yale University Library P.O. BOX 208240 New Haven, CT 06520-8240 (203) 432-1775 Yale Yale's Libraries Bass Library Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library Center for British Art Library Classics Library Cushing/Whitney Medical Library Divinity Library East Asia Library Gilmore Music Library Haas Family Arts Library Lewis Walpole Library Lillian Goldman Law Library Marx Science and Social Science Library Mathematics Library Sterling Memorial Library Hours, Addresses, and Access Subscribe to our newsletter @yalelibrary Yale Library Instagram AccessibilityDiversity, Equity, and InclusionGivingPrivacy and Data UseContact Our Web Team © 2021 Yale University Library • All Rights Reserved