Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Library Exhibits | Early American and British Popular Amusements An exhibit from the personal collection of Professor Emeritus Don B. Wilmeth, supplemented by items from Brown’s Special Collections This exhibit was mounted during September and October 2010. The exhibit focused on some of the pioneer entertainment forms and entrepreneurs who dominated the amusement business in England and the United States in the 18th and 19th centuries. These include pleasure gardens and annual fairs; equestrian demonstrations and dramas featuring animals; the minstrel show and early vaudeville. There are child prodigies, pantomimes, and the early popular museum. Formats include broadsides, playbills, and satirical prints, along with photographs, pamphlets, and posters. The exhibit was enhanced by the seventh annual Wilmeth Lecture on American theatre and performance. This special event was held on October 3, 2010 in the John Hay Library. The distinguished speaker was Laurence Senelick, Fletcher Professor of Drama and Oratory at Tufts University and an internationally known authority on popular entertainments. His topic was “Custard’s First Stand: The Origins of American Slapstick Comedy.” Guest curator: Don B. Wilmeth, Asa Messer Professor Emeritus and Emeritus Professor of Theatre and of English, Brown University (retired in 2003). Download Professor Wilmeth’s complete catalog of the exhibit. Return to Library Exhibits Home Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University