Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU HDS Home Email My.HDS HOLLIS ATLA Religion Database Search Google main search box code About Contact the Library Directions Hours Find Your Way Book a Group Study Room Library News Mission and History Research Tools Key Databases Essential Tools and Services M.Div. Senior Paper FAQ Citation Tools Research Guides How to Find Archives Help & Services Collections Religion Collections at Harvard Collection Strengths Special Collections Unitarian Universalist Resources Digital Collections Collections Beyond Harvard Ask Us HOME / HELP & SERVICES / Faculty Borrow, Renew, Request For generally applicable policies and services, see "Borrow, Renew, Request" on the Help & Services page. Reference books may be charged to HDS faculty or their assistants for up to three hours. Please consult a circulation supervisor. Research Assistants/Proxies: Research assistant borrowing privileges cards are available through Harvard Library.More information about requirements and application at Widener Library's Privileges Office. Course Reserves Submitting Course Reserve Requests To place items on course reserve, please forward your course syllabus to reserves@hds.harvard.edu. Alternatively, you may submit requests in Canvas. For instructions on submitting reserve requests using Canvas, see the Library Reserve Quick Guide for Instructional Staff It is best to submit course requests several weeks before the beginning of each semester. All items will not be immediately available for use in the reserves collection. It may take several weeks to receive books that must be ordered or recalled from patrons. For items readily available in the collection, please allow 1-2 working days processing time during peak reserve season. Materials may be added throughout the semester. At the end of the semester, materials will automatically be removed from course reserve. Library items will return to the collection and personal copies will be returned to the instructor’s delivery address or discarded. Please direct any questions pertaining to reserves to reserves@hds.harvard.edu. Accessing materials placed on Course Reserve To access Reserve Readings for a course using Canvas, use the Library Reserves link in the left navigation menu of the Canvas course site. Curricular and Research Support One-on-One Consultations Subject specific orientations to Harvard Library resources. Research consultations To schedule a meeting, contact Research Services. Group Instruction Demonstrations of subject–specific library resources for classes or sections To discuss scope and schedule a session,contact Research Services. Teaching with Special Collections Harvard’s archives and special collections offer a unique teaching and learning opportunity for faculty and students. To schedule a class at Harvard Divinity School Library, contact Research Services. Open Access Policy An open access policy for scholarly articles was adopted by vote of the Harvard Divinity School faculty on November 15, 2010, in keeping with its commitment to the dissemination of the fruits of its research and scholarship as widely as possible. (See full text of the policy.) HDS Scholarship Accessible Worldwide via Open Access Policy Article Deposit in DASH The HDS Open Access Policy enables free online access to scholarly articles authored by HDS faculty that have been deposited in DASH (Digital Access to Scholarship at Harvard), Harvard University's central, online, open access repository. To find scholarly articles by HDS faculty deposited in DASH, search by author (e.g., Graham, William A.) or community (Harvard Divinity School). Participating in the Open Access Policy Faculty participating in the HDS Open Access Policy should incorporate the following into their workflow with respect to scholarly articles: Deposit an electronic copy of the author's final version of each scholarly article in the DASH repository no later than the date of publication or designate a proxy to make such deposits. Amend the publisher's agreement, as needed, to retain the necessary copyright. Obtain an amendment form by logging in with Harvard Key. Opting out of the Open Access Policy Faculty may choose to opt out of the HDS Open Access Policy by requesting waivers. Waivers will be granted automatically, upon request, on an article-by-article basis. To request a waiver, faculty should use the online Waiver Generator and log in with Harvard Key. Scope of the Open Access Policy Applies only to scholarly articles. Applies to articles authored or co-authored by HDS faculty and completed after November 15, 2010 (except for articles for which the faculty member entered into an incompatible licensing or assignment agreement before that date). Grants Harvard a nonexclusive, irrevocable, worldwide license to distribute scholarly articles for any noncommercial purpose. Faculty authors retain ownership and complete control in their writings, subject only to Harvard's prior, nonexclusive license. Faculty can exercise their copyrights in any way they see fit, including transferring them to a publisher if they so desire. (However, if faculty authors do so, Harvard still retains its license and the right to distribute the article from the DASH repository.) See the Frequently Asked Questions of the Open Access Policy Guidelines of the Office for Scholarly Communication (OSC). The Model Open Access Policy includes annotations with explanations that may be helpful. The language of the Model Open Access Policy is similar to the language of the HDS Open Access Policy. See the full text of the HDS Open Access Policy for more detail and exact language. Questions? The Office for Scholarly Communication administers the DASH repository and provides information and support to Harvard faculty as they make decisions about publishing their scholarly works. The Harvard Divinity School Library facilitates implementation of the HDS Open Access Policy and maintains a liaison to the OSC. Questions may be directed to Renata Kalnins, HDS open access liaison and research librarian, 617.384.7488. Help & Services Faculty BTI Affiliates Alumni Visitors See Weekly Hours HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL LIBRARY 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 617.495.5788 my.hds | Harvard University | Harvard Library | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Trademark Notice | Reporting Copyright Infringements Copyright © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. HDS Library Styles Code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement