Off-Campus Access | Library A–Z | Hours & Locations Search: Search BruKnow Library Website WorldCat Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Brown University Library Collections Science Fiction and Fantasy Collections Select a different subject group Africana Alcohol and Addiction Studies American Culture and Society Art and Architecture Asian Studies Author Collections Book Arts Brown University Archives & History Business Children's Literature Disability Studies Early Printed Books Economics Education European Studies Fine and Decorative Arts Gender and Sexuality Studies Graphic Arts History (Non-United States) History (United States) History of Medicine History of Science, Mathematics, Technology Iberia, Latin America, and Latino Indigenous Studies Language & Literature, Non-Western LGBTQ Literature (Non-United States) Literature (United States) Magic and Occult Manuscript Collections Middle Eastern Studies Military History and Iconography Museum Objects Collections Performing Arts Political Science Printing and Publishing History Race and Ethnicity Religion Rhode Island/Local Interest Russia and Eastern Europe Science Fiction and Fantasy South Asia Women Return to Collections A to Z Index Analog: Science Fiction and Fact Analog: Science Fiction and Fact is a science fiction magazine that has included work by Isaac Asimov, Robert A. Heinlein, Paul Anderson, Spider Robinson, Lois McMaster Bujold, and Michael F. Flynn, among others. This collection is made up primarily of editorial correspondence, but also includes original manuscripts, proofs, reviews, and miscellaneous records relating to the publication of the magazine. ...more information Eckhardt, Jason C. drawings Jason C. Eckhardt is an artist and illustrator born in 1958. He is known for his illustrations for science fiction books. This collection contains original artwork by Eckhardt for science fiction books and a Narragansett beer can featuring his illustration for their Lovecraft Innsmouth Olde Ale. Many of the illustrations relate to the science fiction writer Howard P. Lovecraft. ...more information Kiernan, Caitlín Caitlín Rebekah Kiernan is a science fiction writer and vertebrate paleontologist who has published novels, short stories, comics, and scientific articles. In addition to the books and stories she has published, Kiernan also worked with DC Comics to complete a sixty-issue series of comics called The Dreaming during 1997-2001. She publishes Sirenia Digest which is an online "monthly journal of the weirdly erotic." She also contributes entries most days to her blog which began on November 23, 2001 as "Grey Girl Beast" and then renamed as "Dear Sweet Filthy World" (https://greygirlbeast.livejournal.com/). Between 1996 and 1997, Kiernan was the vocalist and lyricist for a "goth-folk-blues band," called Death's Little Sister based in Athens, Georgia. This collection contains her handwritten journal from childhood and other juvenilia, drafts of comics, edited manuscripts of novels and short stories, correspondence with fiction editors, correspondence with paleontologists, manuscripts and journals of paleontology work, her desktop computer, and collectibles from the band Death's Little Sister. ...more information Lovecraft (Howard P.) Lovecraft, the eccentric Providence author of fantasy and horror tales for the pulp magazines of the 1920's, is now recognized as one of the seminal figures in the development of the science fiction genre. The collection includes extensive holdings of manuscripts, letters, editions of Lovecraft's works in all languages, periodicals, biographical and critical works, and many supportive collections of manuscript and printed materials of Lovecraft friends and associates. There are more than 1,000 books and magazines, in 20 languages, containing material by or about Lovecraft plus over 2,000 original letters and manuscripts of his essays, fiction and poetry. Many of the papers were deposited in the library a few months after Lovecraft's death in 1937; others have been added by gift and purchase over the years. Note: In the summer of 2013, students in Brown's Public Humanities program developed an augmented reality tour of Lovecraft's Providence for NecronomiCon Providence. Further information is available at: calloflovecraft.com ...more information Weird Tales Science fiction and fantasy periodical, notable at Brown University Library for the many works by H. P. Lovecraft it published. Fragile; may not be photocopied. ...more information Wells (H.G.) Collection of ca. 565 books and pamphlets by and about H.G. Wells, purchased from antiquarian bookdealer Glenn Finley in 1988. Finley amassed the collection in order to gain firsthand experience with comparative bibliography. The prospectus included with the collection was created by Finley as a preliminary annotated bibliography. The prospectus is divided into: books and pamphlets by Wells (405 items), collected letters (10 items), parodies (4 items), collected editions (1 item), periodical appearances (9 items), ephemera (4 items), biography & criticism (57 items), bibliography (13 items), and later editions and reprints (62 items). The collection is strong in British colonial editions and in unrecorded editions, issues and variants, and includes first and early editions of virtually all of Wells's work. Gifts and purchases continue to augment the original collection. List available. ...more information Return to Collections A to Z Index Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet