CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Access Services Course Reserves Directions Document Delivery Guidelines for Lending Materials for Exhibition Digital Imaging Services Use of the Library | Hours | Collections | Locating Material Using Materials | Special Collections Use of the Library Avery Library is open to current Columbia University students, faculty, and staff. Scan & Deliver is available to all eligible Columbia University affiliates. Visitor and alumni access remains suspended until further notice. For use of the Classics (Rare Book) collection, see details on the Classics page. For use of the Drawings & Archives collection, see details on the Drawings & Archives page. Hours Please consult the Hours calendar. Collections Avery Library, one of Libraries' distinctive collections, contains over 500,000 volumes and 1,900 periodical titles. The Library is composed of three collections: Avery, Fine Arts, and Avery-LC. The Avery collection, one of the world's outstanding collections in the field of architecture, also includes materials on archaeology and the decorative arts. The Fine Arts collection represents the range of literature in art history. The Avery-LC collection consists of recent publications in architecture, art history, archaeology, urban planning, decorative arts, and related fields, and is largely circulating. Additionally, about half of Avery Library's research collection is stored at ReCap, the offsite facility Columbia University Libraries shares with Princeton University, Harvard University, and the New York Public LIbrary (NYPL). Millions of titles from Princeton, Harvard, and NYPL materials are requestable via CLIO and deliverable to Avery Library. Locating Material CLIO, Columbia University Libraries online catalog, contains records and circulation information for materials at Avery Library. Using CLIO, one may also request a scan of a small portion of a work via Scan & Deliver. The Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals is an index to articles on architecture, landscape architecture, interior design, and urban planning in journals received at Avery Library. Using Materials Current Columbia University affiliates may request a scan of a small portion of a work via Scan & Deliver by selecting “Scan” on the item record in CLIO. The Avery-LC collection circulates, with the exception of multi-volume monographs, oversized items, catalogues raisonnés, and other select restricted titles. The Avery-LC stacks are open and items may be charged out by bringing them to the Service Desk on the 200 level. The Avery, Fine Arts, and offsite (ReCAP) collections are in-library use only. In-library use only items may be held on our Temporary Hold Shelves by checking them out at the desk and users may request a personal shelf for holding in-library use only materials. (Note: shelf assignments are subject to availability.) Special Collections Classics Rare books are designated "Classics" in Avery Library. For more information, please refer to the link above. Drawings and Archives The collection contains over 1.5 million items including original architectural drawings and a variety of archival materials. For more information, please refer to the link above. Art Properties The Art Properties Department oversees the Columbia University art collection, comprising works of art in all media from all cultures and time periods. They encompass a broad range of art forms; paintings, sculpture, watercolors, drawings, prints, photographs, and decorative arts, including ceramics and tapestries. Sidebar Avery Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 300 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue M.C. 0301 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-6199 E-mail: avery@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Avery Library Links About Staff Related Links Avery Friends Avery Store Avery Library Blog Public Outdoor Sculpture at Columbia blog CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.