Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Collections Keats Family Books This small collection of books owned by poet John Keats and his family, all with markings or annotations, rewards close study. John Keats's copy of William Hazlitt's Characters of Shakespeare's plays, with his signature and annotations. Houghton Library Keats’s Books There is no complete catalog of books owned by poet John Keats. The primary source of information is a list by Charles Brown, “List of Mr. John Keats’s Books,” (Keats Circle I, 253-60) likely compiled in July 1821 after the poet’s death. Frank Owings, in The Keats Library (1978), estimates that Keats accumulated less than 100 volumes, consisting largely of contemporary poetry by Shelley, Hunt and Wordsworth, and classics by Dante, Chaucer, and Shakespeare. Keats gave away some of his books before his departure for Italy, most notably to Fanny Brawne. Most he left with his sometime housemate, Charles Brown. He took with him only his pocket set of Shakespeare’s Dramatic Works (now at Houghton Library) and Shakespeare’s Poetical Works (now at Keats House, Hampstead). These he gave to Joseph Severn in 1821. Keats’s informal will, written before he left England for Italy, directed “My Chest of Books divide among my friends” (Letters of John Keats, II, 319). Brow did so, dispersing them among eight of Keats’s friends, and retaining some for himself. Brown returned books Keats had borrowed to their rightful owners; gift books to their givers; and the remainder as he saw fit. The volumes are now widely scattered, in both public and private libraries. The Harvard Collection Houghton Library, home to the world's largest collection of original handwritten Keats manuscripts and letters, also houses a small collection of the books owned by Keats and his family. While the total number of books at Houghton is small — 11 titles owned by the poet, another 10 by members of his family — they reward close study. The most important is perhaps the seven-volume set of Shakespeare’s Dramatic Works, marked and annotated by Keats. Houghton Library has begun a program of digitizing the books in the collection, and links to those images are indicated in the entries below. Books Owned by Keats John Keats comments on Samuel Johnson's critique of Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream: "Fie, Johnson!" Houghton Library Matheo Aleman's The rogue, or, The life of Guzman de Alfarache, bound with Fernando Rojas' The Spanish bawd, : represented in Celestina: or, The tragicke-comedy of Calisto and Melibea. Bible Thomas Chatterton's Poems, supposed to have been written at Bristol, by Thomas Rowley, and others, in the fifteenth century William Hazlitt's Political essays, with sketches of public characters William Hazlitt's Characters of Shakespear’s plays (view online) Leigh Hunt's Foliage; or Poems original and translated Zacharia Jackson's Shakspeare's genius justified Francisco de Moraes' Palmerín of England(view online) John Selden's Titles of honor The dramatic works of William Shakspeare (view online) The works of Mr. Edmund Spenser (view online) Books Owned by the Keats Family William Hazlitt's Lectures on English comic writers. Delivered at the Surry Institution Allan Cunningham's The lives of the most eminent British painters and sculptors Episcopal Church, The Book of Common Prayer Oliver Goldsmith's Goldsmiths poems, and essays Bernadin de Saint-Pierre's Paul and Virginia The poetical works of William Collins : with the life of the author and critical observations by Dr. Langhorne Richard Turner'sAn easy introduction to the arts and sciences Sir Charles Morell's The tales of the genii; or, The delighful lessons of Horam, the son of Asmar. Accessing These Materials All of the Keats family books held at Houghton Library are cataloged in HOLLIS (links above). Those records contain fuller bibliographic description. The library has begun a program of digitizing the books in this collection. Links to those images are indicated in the entries above. Access to the original volumes is restricted, and permission must be obtained in advance of a visit. If the volumes have been digitized, access to the originals is not permitted. Contact Houghton Library Reference email: Email Phone number 617-495-2441 Related Collections Collection The Harvard Keats Collection Collection The Harvard Keats Collection Harvard's John Keats Collection is the world's largest collection of original handwritten Keats manuscripts and letters. Collection Modern British and Irish Culture Collections Collection Modern British and Irish Culture Collections Houghton Library’s collections of 19th- and 20th-century British and Irish literature contain the papers of many writers and artists, with strong holdings on the Romantics. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.