CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner Digital Library & Scholarly Technologies CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Behind The Scenes Digital Library & Scholarly Technologies Public Site Staff Site The Digital Libraries and Scholarly Technology (DLST) provides a focal point for the planning, coordination, infrastructure and implementation needs of Columbia's evolving digital library. DLST Programs Collection-Based Digital Access. Creating digital representations and research tools based on Columbia's print, audio, visual and other collections, when appropriate in collaboration with other institutions and collections (see Libraries Digital Collections); supporting the creation of online exhibitions from Columbia's collections (see Libraries Online Exhibitions); supporting remote access to archival description (see Finding Aids). Born-Digital Content Management. Ingest, management and preservation of, and provision of access to, born-digital archival content received within archival collections acquired by CUL/IS special collections and depoisited in the Academic Commons institutional repository. Long-Term Digital Preservation. Working collaboratively with the Libraries Information Technology group, DLST is charged with developing systems, software and procedures for ensuring the long-term availability of digital content for which Columbia Libraries has responsibility. DLST also participates in planning and implementation of the Academic Preservation Trust preservation repository. Website Development. Providing technical, design, editorial, planning, training, and infrastructure support for the Libraries' web sites (LibraryWeb, StaffWeb (staff only), Behind the Scenes, as well as Blogs, Wikis (staff only), and externally hosted platforms. Key Technology Support Portfolios Repository infrastructure and technology tools (e.g., Fedora, Samvera) Metadata creation and management tools: (the locallly developed “Hyacinth” product; ArchivesSpace integrations) Digital content access tools and platforms (e.g., Blacklight, Solr, Omeka) Multimedia management and access (e.g., Wowza and IIIF) Preservation support (e.g., FRED forensic workstation, Archivematica) Web design and development (e.g., Adobe Experience Manager WCMS, Wordpress) History of the Department Digital Library & Scholarly Technologies was established in 2002 as the Libraries Digital Program Division (LDPD), and was one of the first such programs in the U.S. It's mission is to to further the preservation of, and access to, digitized and born-digital collections. It also supports technology, design and user experience optimization for the Libraries web presence. This report to the Digital Library Federation describes its original mission and some of the projects initiated at that time. In 2017 LDPD had its scope expanded to include support technology projects and platforms for the newly re-organized Digital Scholarship group (formerly the Center for Digital Research and Scholarship), and was renamed the Digital Libraries and Scholarly Technology (DLST) group. Sidebar Digital Library & Scholarly Technologies About DLST The DLST Team About DLST/DIAG About DLST/Web Services Digital Library Speaker Series CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.