CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee FAQ Fall 2022 The Oral History Archives at Columbia (OHAC) is located in the the Rare Book & Manuscript Library, 6th Floor, Butler Library Please contact OHAC for a reference consultation to confirm availability of materials. We invite all users to access our Digital Library Collections, request reproductions, or contact us for alternatives to in-person visits. OHAC reference staff will be able to inform you about the availability of specific interviews or collections, and advise about reading room appointments, if necessary. You can download any of the informational advice in this FAQ from the OHAC Research Guide's "How do I...?" tab. How do I search or browse the oral history archives? Please begin by exploring the Oral History Portal. When you have found an oral history interview that interests you, click the link to view the Full CLIO record. The CLIO record will include information about Restrictions and whether or not this interview is open to researchers. To protect narrators' privacy while also ensuring that their oral history be preserved for the historical record, some oral history interviews in our collections may be restricted i.e. closed for an agreed-upon number of years, or for their lifetime, or they may require written permission from the narrator of interviewer before allowing a researcher to see or hear an interview. The vast majority of the interviews in the Oral History Archives at Columbia are open for research. If you would like to view a closed interview, please contact us, as the restrictions may have expired or you may be able to contact the copright holder directly for access. If the catalog record says that an interview you would like to see is either "Closed" or "Permission Required to See," please contact the archives. Which interviews are open for research? The vast majority of the interviews in OHAC are open for research. If the CLIO record says Restrictions are... Access: Open. Permission required to cite, quote, and reproduce. Contact repository for information. or Access: Open. Copyright by The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York, 1972. Permission required to cite, quote, and reproduce. Contact repository for information. ...you have permission to read the transcript in the Rare Book & Manuscript Library's Reading Room and you do not need to contact us in advance of your visit. If the CLIO record says Restrictions are... Access: Closed or Access: Written permission required from interviewer. or Access: Written permission required from interviewee. ...please contact us in advance of your visit. We can check whether the restrictions have expired or give you contact information for the copyright holder to request access permission. How do I listen to or view interviews? The Oral History Archives at Columbia typically provides transcripts for research use. OHAC reference staff can advise on the status of listening stations as the RBML operates under COVID protocols and limited appointments. We work with the Libraries' Preservation and Digital Library & Scholarly Technologies Departments to provide greater access to the audio/video in our digital collections. We appreciate your patience as we undertake digitizing many of the thousands of interviews from their original analog formats (reels, audio cassettes, etc.) and as we improve catalog information to indicate when digital audio/video is available. In this time of transition, the easiest way to find out about the accessibility of audio/video is to contact us directly. How do I order an interview transcript .pdf? Digital Reproduction Policies As responsible stewards of decades of oral histories and narrators’ life stories, we are bound by legal, contractual and ethical obligations spanning the seventy-year history of the oral history archive. Many, but not all, materials are publishable online or available for reproduction. To begin a reproduction request, please fill out this form. Requests are limited to: up to three interviews for transcripts. transcripts under 650 pages. Transcripts over that limit are unavailable for reproduction at this time. Columbia affiliates can consult the archives about a reading room appointment for transcripts over 650 pages in length. Transcripts fees are $30 flat rate per each full transcript up to 650 pages or $15 for previously-scanned transcripts. Transcript(s) will be delivered electronically. If you require a paper transcript, you will need to order a digital transcript from us and print the paper transcript via your home, work or commercial printer. The archive will only provide a digital reproduction if the interview the interview has no access restrictions ("Access: Open" in catalog). We are unable to reproduce entire collections for off-site or remote access. Again, we have a number of newly digitized interviews in the Columbia University Libraries' Digital Library Collection. How do I listen to or watch analog recordings (reels, audio cassettes, video cassettes, etc.)? Analog media cannot be accessed until it has been digitized for preservation. The Preservation and Digital Conversion Division handles the audio conversion process. Please note that fees are collected in advance. If you are interested in ordering audio or video of an interview, please complete and sign these forms: - the General Conditions of Service Form (PDF) and - Audio/Video Reformatting Form (PDF, Word). Email your completed forms to OHAC Reference Staff. A staff member will contact you with a quote for digital conversion based on the whether the material is already in digital format, number of media items (e.g. two cassettes, one reel), or number of digital files and further instructions for payment. Digital conversion is completed through an outside vendor and may take up to 8 weeks to complete. We do not have "rush" or "urgent" status nor do we put patrons in contact with our external vendor. Please plan accordingly. When digital conversion is complete, the Preservation and Digital Conversion Division will contact you. Files are mp3s by default and are shared via electronic delivery. Which oral history collections are available online? If permitted by ethical and legal agreements, oral history interviews are available in the Digital Library Collection. Do I need permission to cite or quote an oral history? The Oral History Archives welcomes personal, educational, and non-commercial use that qualifies as fair use (see CUL's Fair Use Checklist) to all unrestricted interview materials in the collection. The catalog record for many oral histories says “Permission required to cite and quote.” However, permission is not required for non-commercial use and access that qualifies as fair use. Scholarship is non-commerical use. Researchers must cite and give proper credit to The Columbia Center for Oral History Archives. If you have a copyright concern, please see the Columbia University Libraries' instructions for bringing possible copyright violations to our attention. How do I cite an oral history? Suggested generic oral history transcript citation Oral History interview with _______________ (year of the interview), Collection or Project Title (when applicable), pages ________, Oral History Archives at Columbia, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Columbia University in the City of New York. OR Reminiscences of _______________ (year of the interview), Collection or Project Title (when applicable), pages ________, Oral History Archives at Columbia, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Columbia University in the City of New York. Examples: Oral History interview with David Norman Dinkins (2014), Oral History Archives at Columbia, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Columbia University in the City of New York. Reminiscences of Frances Perkins (1955), pages 44 - 64, Oral History Archives at Columbia, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Columbia University in the City of New York. Reminiscences of Rex G. White (1951), pages 17 - 19, Radio Pioneers Project, Oral History Archives at Columbia, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Columbia University in the City of New York. APA Style Guide King, Susan. 2011, December 13 and 2013, August 30. Interview by Mary Marshall Clark. Digital recording. Carnegie Digital Past and Future Project. Oral History Archives at Columbia. Columbia University in the City of New York. Chicago Manual of Style King, Susan. Interview by Mary Marshall Clark. December 13, 2013 and August 30, 2013. Carnegie Digital Past and Future Project. Oral History Archives at Columbia, Columbia University in the City of New York. MLA Style Guide King, Susan. Oral history interview. By Mary Marshall Clark. December 13, 2013 and August 30, 2013. FOR MEDIA, DOCUMENTARY, PODCAST PRODUCTIONS, ETC. For commercial use of any sort, including reproduction, quotation, publication, and broadcast in any medium, distribution, derivative works, public performance, and public display that goes beyond fair use, please contact the Curator for the Oral History Archives at Columbia regarding permissions and licensing fees. The Oral History Archives at Columbia (OHAC) offers, for a fee, a non-exclusive license for oral history interview audio for which Columbia University holds the copyright. Permission will comply with any agreements made with the interviewee, interviewer, or donor of materials. Fees apply to the entire interview, in perpetuity. OHAC provides neither research nor editing services. Audio is delivered in .wav format. Transcripts are delivered in .pdf format. Video is delivered in .mp4 format. Licensing fees are separate from reproduction fees (e.g. duplication, transfer, etc.). Our fee schedule is as follows: Scholarly use: no fees for audio, video or transcript use. Non-profit use (e.g. radio, podcasting and TV): $25 for transcript use, $75 for audio use, and $150 for video use. Commercial use (e.g. radio, podcasting and TV): $50 for transcript use, $175 for audio use, and $300 for video use. Note that often "library time" often doesn't match up with media or reporters' tight deadlines or short turnaround time. We offer neither "rush" nor "expedited" services. Please plan accordingly. Reformatting from analog to digital format is completed through an outside vendor and may take up to 8 weeks to complete. For materials already in digital format, delivery may take up to 2 weeks. Does Columbia provide transcription software or services? Neither Columbia University Libraries nor its IT services provide transcription software for interviews. There are a number of different online tools that will assist with transcription, as well as commercial services searchable online. We do not recommend a particular commerical or for-profit service, though oTranscribe is an open-source tool to explore. You can read more about the transcription process from Linda Shopes' article, "Transcribing Oral History in the Digital Age." How can I learn more about oral history? Check out our research guide which includes advise for using the collections and conducting oral history interviews. The Columbia Center for Oral History Research has many resources to share including research guides, video tutorials, and a bibliography. Please see CCOHR Resources and Education Initiatives. You can also get the latest news about oral history collections in the archive by signing up for updates from on the Rare Book & Manuscript Library news site. Sidebar Oral History Archives Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor East Butler Library 535 West 114th Street New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-5590 E-mail: oralhist@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Oral History Archives Links Rare Book & Manuscript Library home Create/access your Special Researcher Account Oral History FAQ Find oral history interviews Oral history news Current collecting areas Oral history research guide Digital oral history collections Oral history staff CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.