Skip to main content Left arrow Barnard.edu Open Search Close Find & Borrow Back Borrowing Policies Circulating Collection CLIO Search Tips Course Materials Media & Technology Equipment Request Items Archives & Special Collections Barnard FLI Partnership Library Zines Help with... Back Research Instruction Academic Technology Media & AV Current Library Services Spaces for... Back Studying & Collaboration Computing, Printing & Scanning Data & Visualization Design & Innovation Media & Movement Relaxing & Self-Care Visit Back Hours Library Maps Alum Access Visitor Access Accessibility Peet's Coffee People & Values Back BLAIS Staff Teams Staff Listing Mission Statement Community Guidelines Personal Librarians Circulation & Help Desk Staff Student Employment Textbook Affordability Faculty Partner of the Year News & Events Back Upcoming Events Displays & Exhibits All Library News Undesign the Redline Left arrow Barnard.edu Search for: Search All of Barnard.edu Barnard Library is open for seating and access to stacks for Barnard and Columbia students, staff, and faculty. Masks are required in the library. Read more about our hours or current Barnard Library services. Library Home Page Welcome to Barnard Library We are dedicated to intellectual discovery and cross-disciplinary collaboration. We seek to bring together people, ideas, collections and technologies, forming a space and community that serves as a catalyst for knowledge creation and investigation. We provide a wide range of research and scholarly services and programming to create a unique and connected undergraduate library. Quick Links: Current Library Services Guide | Research Guides | Staff Listing | CLIO Search Search Collections Loading Quicksearch... Advanced Search Your Library Account Borrowing Policies Engage & Participate Services From data analysis to experimental dance, we offer cross-curricular support for research, instruction, media and technology Community Community is at the core of what we do: We aim to be a social and intellectual center that brings scholars and disciplines together Spaces Whether you want quiet corner to study or a studio to shoot a music video, we have room for all types of learning, creativity, and curiosity Upcoming Events & Workshops View All Events & Workshops Undesign the Redline Undesign the Redline @ Barnard is an interactive exhibition combining history, art, and storytelling with community outreach and collaboration in order to reckon with systemic racism by examining the legacy of redlining in Barnard and Columbia’s neighborhood. Learn more about the exhibit What's Happening @barnlib Powered by Curator.io News & Announcements Downloadable Reproductive Justice Zines We have made a selection of reproduction justice zines available in print in the zine library and provide links to them online via CLIO. May 23, 2022 Emerging Filmmaker Mentorship Program 2022 Cohort Please join us in congratulating the EFMP grantees! May 20, 2022 Erinma Adaeze Onyewuchi Hi! I'm Erinma. I'm from Maryland and I am an Urban Studies major with a concentration in Africana Studies. May 17, 2022 All Library News Keep Exploring Learn about hours, access policies, library layout, and more Visiting Details Site Footer at The Milstein Center for Teaching and Learning 3009 Broadway, New York, NY 10027 | Phone: 212.854.3953 | library@barnard.edu Departments Library IMATS Archives Zines Teaching & Learning Centers Center for Engaged Pedagogy Design Center Digital Humanities Center Empirical Reasoning Center Movement Lab Sloate Media Center Vagelos Computational Science Center Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University