Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. McFarlin Home HOURS ASK US MY LIBRARY ACCOUNT Search the library website Go! ABOUT Events Fines & Fees History of McFarlin Library Hours Maps & Directions Message from the Dean Mission Staff Directory Welcome to the Library Video FIND MATERIALS ★ Search Summon ★ A-Z Database List Classic Catalog Course Reserves List Journal List Research Guides Textbook Reserves List GET HELP Ask a Librarian / Contact Us FAQ Quick Tips Videos Schedule a Virtual Appointment INFORMATION FOR Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate Students International Students Remote Learners Undergraduate Students Visitors LIBRARY SPACES Computer Lab & IT Help Desk Faculty Resource Center Group Study Rooms iClassrooms Writing Center SERVICES Book & Material Pickup Form Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Suggest a Purchase SPECIAL COLLECTIONS STUDENT JOBS COVID-19 GUIDE MORE LIBRARIES HCAR (Gilcrease Museum) MLIC (Law Library) McFarlin Library LibGuides Research Guides LGBTQ+ Community Resources Home Search this Guide Search LGBTQ+ Community Resources: Home This guide provides local and national resources for members of the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Questioning, and Others (LGBTQ+) community. Resources in Tulsa Green Country Bears Little Blue House at TU PFLAG TU Counseling and Psychological Services Tulsa Area Prime Timers (21+) Tulsa Lesbian Network LGBTQ Topics Gender Identitiy LGBTQ Health LGBTQ Vocabulary Mental Health Multiple Topics Sexual Orientation National Resources American Institute of Bisexuality Asexual Visibility and Education Network Bi.org Everyday Feminism Family Acceptance Project Get Real Education GLAAD GLSEN It's Pronounced Metrosexual It Gets Better Project National LGBTQ Task Force The Safe Zone Project Transgender Law Center The Welcoming Project McFarlin Books For a comprehensive list of McFarlin books consult our library catalog. Some ebooks may require you sign into the library system before viewing; you will be automatically prompted if a login is necessary. Body and Mind: LGBTQ Health Issues Double Challenge: Being LGBTQ and a Minority Edges of the Rainbow : LGBTQ Japan Frequently asked questions from LGBTQ+ prospective foster and adoptive parents LGBTQ+ Athletes Claim the Field : Striving for Equality LGBTQ at Work LGBTQ Issues in Education LGBTQ mental health Pocket Guide to LGBTQ Mental Health A Positive View of LGBTQ Sexuality, Subjectivity, and LGBTQ Militancy in the United States You Are Not Alone: Finding Your LGBTQ Community Resources in Oklahoma Diversity Center of Oklahoma Freedom Oklahoma HIV/AIDS Legal Resource Project Oklahomans for Equality (OKEQ) McFarlin Databases For a comprehensive list of McFarlin databases consult our A-Z Database List. Databases may require you sign into the library system before viewing; you will be automatically prompted if a login is necessary. Academic Search Complete "Academic Search Complete is the world's most valuable and comprehensive scholarly, multi-disciplinary full-text database, with more than 5,300 full-text periodicals, including 4,400 peer-reviewed journals. In addition to full text, this database offers indexing and abstracts for more than 9,300 journals and a total of 9,810 publications including monographs, reports, conference proceedings, etc." -- EBSCO APA PsycARTICLES "PsycARTICLES, from the American Psychological Association (APA), is a definitive source of full-text, peer-reviewed scholarly and scientific articles in psychology. The database contains more than 140,000 articles from over 60 journals published by the APA, its imprint the Educational Publishing Foundation (EPF), and from allied organizations including the Canadian Psychological Association and the Hogrefe Publishing Group. It includes all journal articles, book reviews, letters to the editor, and errata from each journal. Coverage spans 1894 to present; nearly all APA journals go back to Volume 1, Issue 1. PsycARTICLES is indexed with controlled vocabulary from APA's Thesaurus of Psychological Index Terms. " -- EBSCO APA PsycBOOKS PsycBOOKS, from the American Psychological Association (APA), is a database of more than 25,000 chapters in PDF from over 1,600 books published by APA and other distinguished publishers. It also includes over 900 classic books of landmark historical impact in psychology dating from the 1600s, and the exclusive electronic release of more than 1,500 authored entries from the APA/Oxford University Press Encyclopedia of Psychology. Furthermore, digitization of the content from the Archives of the History of American Psychology (AHAP) collection will add upwards of 2,500 works of historical significance. PsycBOOKS is indexed with controlled vocabulary from APA's Thesaurus of Psychological Index Terms. APA PsycINFO "This database is the world's largest resource devoted to peer-reviewed literature in behavioral science and mental health. Produced by the American Psychological Association, it is an indispensable tool for the discovery of global scholarly research." -- EBSCO Business Source Complete "Business Source Complete is the world's definitive scholarly business database, providing the leading collection of bibliographic and full text content. As part of the comprehensive coverage offered by this database, indexing and abstracts for the most important scholarly business journals back as far as 1886 are included. In addition to the searchable cited references provided for more than 1,300 journals, Business Source Complete contains detailed author profiles for the 40,000 most-cited authors in the database. Journal ranking studies reveal that Business Source Complete is the overwhelmingly superior database for full text journals in all disciplines of business, including marketing, management, MIS, POM, accounting, finance and economics." Additional full text content includes: Industry reports Market research reports Country reports Company profiles SWOT analyses Communication & Mass Media Complete "Communication & Mass Media Complete . . . provides the most robust, quality research solution in areas related to communication and mass media. CMMC incorporates the content of CommSearch (formerly produced by the National Communication Association) and Mass Media Articles Index (formerly produced by Penn State) along with numerous other journals in communication, mass media, and other closely-related fields of study to create a research and reference resource of unprecedented scope and depth encompassing the breadth of the communication discipline. CMMC offers cover-to-cover (“core”) indexing and abstracts for more than 500 journals, and selected (“priority”) coverage of nearly 200 more, for a combined coverage of 690 titles." -- EBSCO more... less... "Furthermore, this database includes full text for 380 journals. Many major journals have indexing, abstracts, PDFs and searchable cited references from their first issues to the present (dating as far back as 1915). CMMC contains a sophisticated Communication Thesaurus and comprehensive reference browsing (i.e. searchable cited references for peer-reviewed journals covered as “core”). In addition, CMMC features over 5,000 Author Profiles, providing biographical data and bibliographic information, and covering the most prolific, most cited, and most frequently searched for authors in the database. To further develop and enhance this database, EBSCO has established two working groups of expert advisors represented by leading librarians, bibliographers, and professionals in the areas of communication and mass media." -- EBSCO Film & Television Literature Index with Full Text "Film & Television Literature Index with Full Text is the definitive online tool for film and television research. It is a comprehensive bibliographic and full-text database covering the entire spectrum of television and film. Subject coverage includes film & television theory, preservation & restoration, screenwriting, production, cinematography, technical aspects, and reviews. The database provides cover-to-cover indexing and abstracts for 370 publications (and selected coverage for over 250), as well as full text for more than 100 journals, and nearly 100 books, over 36,300 images from the MPTV Image Archive, and Variety Movie Reviews from 1914 to present." -- EBSCO SocINDEX with Full Text "SocINDEX with Full Text is the world's most comprehensive and highest quality sociology research database. Its extensive scope and content provide users with a wealth of extremely useful information encompassing the broad spectrum of sociological study. The database features more than 2,066,400 records with subject headings from a 19,750+ term sociological thesaurus designed by subject experts and expert lexicographers. This product also contains informative abstracts for more than 1,200 "core" coverage journals dating as far back as 1895." -- EBSCO more... less... "In addition, this file provides data mined from more than 510 "priority" coverage journals as well as from over 2,920 "selective" coverage journals. Extensive indexing for books/monographs, conference papers, and other non-periodical content sources is included. Searchable cited references are also provided. SocINDEX with Full Text offers comprehensive coverage of sociology, encompassing all sub-disciplines and closely related areas of study. These include abortion, criminology & criminal justice, demography, ethnic & racial studies, gender studies, marriage & family, political sociology, religion, rural & urban sociology, social development, social psychology, social structure, social work, socio-cultural anthropology, sociological history, sociological research, sociological theory, substance abuse & other addictions, violence and many others. In addition, SocINDEX with Full Text features over 25,000 Author Profiles covering the most prolific, most cited, and most frequently searched for authors in the database. Each author profile includes biographical data and bibliographic information, which together allow users to quickly ascertain an author's areas of expertise and academic/professional focus. All author profiles are updated on a routine basis as new information about each author becomes available. Moreover, profiles continue to be added for additional authors within the database on an ongoing basis. SocINDEX with Full Text contains full text for 777 journals dating back to 1908. This database also includes full text for more than 820 books and monographs, and full text for 13,947 conference papers." -- EBSCO Crisis Resources LGBT Helpline and Peer Listening Line LGBT National Hotline Trans Lifeline The Trevor Project Last Updated: Feb 17, 2022 11:43 AM URL: https://libraries.utulsa.edu/lgbtq Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. About Events Fines & Fees History of McFarlin Library Hours Maps & Directions Message from the Dean Mission Staff Directory Welcome to the Library Video Find Materials ★ Search Summon ★ A-Z Database List Classic Catalog Course Reserves List Journal List Research Guides Textbook Reserves List Get Help Ask a Librarian / Contact Us FAQ Quick Tips Videos Schedule a Virtual Appointment Information For: Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate Students International Students Remote Learners Undergraduate Students Visitors Library Spaces Computer Lab & IT Help Desk Faculty Resource Center Group Study Rooms iClassrooms Special Collections Writing Center More Libraries HCAR (Gilcrease Museum) MLIC (Law Library) Services Book & Material Pickup Form Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Suggest a Purchase Site Policies Digital Accessibility Policy The University of Tulsa · McFarlin Library · 2933 East 6th Street · Tulsa, OK 74104-3123 · (918) 631-2871 · Facebook Library Staff Login (Libguides) · Print this page