Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home University Records Management University Records Management University Records Management Pages Navigation University Records Management Forms Retention Schedule Procedures Page main body content Provides systematic, cost-effective control over the University’s records from creation to final disposition. This helps to protect vital records and minimize the legal risk to the University to prevent under or over retained records. University Records Management: Maintains a retention schedule for all University records according to federal and state laws and regulations Stores University records and responds to records requests Destroys records Supports litigation Advises and trains on records procedures University Records Center Toggle University Records Center Content A centralized repository for the storage of inactive University records, which must be retained for legal, fiscal, and administrative necessity. Located at the Hawkins Building on Jamesville Road, the University Records Center (URC) offers a secure and climate-controlled facility for records that have not yet reached the end of their retention periods. In addition to storage, the URC provides retrieval services enabling faculty and administrative staff to access their designated records to meet the ongoing business functions of the University. The URC encourages any University schools, colleges, departments, and offices to utilize its safe, convenient, and cost-effective records management services. Right aside items Contact Us Hawkins Building, Room 140 1600 Jamesville Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Map It 315.443.8388 rm@syr.edu Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.