Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Collections Angus McBean Photographic Archive Angus McBean's iconic portraits of actors and entertainers are among the most complete visual records of the British stage from the 1930s through the 1960s. Kathleen Ferrier as Orfeo in "Orfeo ed Euridice," 1947. Photograph by Angus McBean. View Details. © Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library Angus McBean (1904–1990) was one of Britain’s most prolific photographers. His archive chronicling the British stage from 1936 to 1965 contains approximately 30,000 five-by-seven inch glass plate negatives, over 25,000 contact prints (a subset of which McBean printed himself), and a collection of theater programs from the productions McBean photographed. History Marika Rivera, 1947. Photograph by Angus McBean. View Details. © Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library Throughout his career, McBean photographed hundreds of productions in and around London. He had longstanding commissions at The Old Vic, the Shakespeare Memorial Theatre (now the Royal Shakespeare Company), and the fledgling Royal National Theatre. He also photographed opera and ballet performances at Sadler’s Wells, the Royal Opera House, and Glyndebourne as well as many leading West End productions ranging from revues to large-scale musicals. McBean's studio attracted not only actors, singers, and dancers, but also playwrights, producers, composers, artists, and writers. In his early career, he was a pioneer of surrealist photography. He produced a popular series of “surrealized” portraits for The Sketch before going on to experiment with montage and multiple exposure. Many of these images — of stars like Audrey Hepburn and Vivien Leigh — circulated widely in glossy magazines like The Play Pictorial, The Tatler, and Theatre World, and are well represented in the archive. The Harvard Theatre Collection acquired McBean's archive in 1970. Diversity Ram Gopal, 1951. Photograph by Angus McBean. View Details. © Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library The collection is rich in portraits depicting performers of diverse racial, ethnic, and sexual identities. Among them are Shirley Bassey, Prince Birabongse Bhanudej Bhanubandh (also called Prince Bira of Siam), Edric Connor (in Pericles, 1958), Elisabeth Welch, Ram Gopal, Berto Pasuka, Marika Rivera, Paul Robeson, Edmundo Ros, and Lupe Vélez. Also of note is a series of photographs of Les Ballets Nègres, Britain’s first Black ballet company; the original 1957 production of Errol John's Moon on a Rainbow Shawl; and images of LGBTQ+ figures like Quentin Crisp, Robert Helpmann, Danny La Rue, Beatrix Lehmann, Oliver Messel, Nancy Spain, and Tennessee Williams. McBean was gay himself and was jailed for his sexuality in 1942. Beyond Harvard Photographs by McBean can also be found in the Mander & Mitchenson Collection at the University of Bristol Theatre Collection, the Victoria and Albert Museum, the National Portrait Gallery in London, the Royal National Theatre Archive, and the Shakespeare Centre Library and Archive in Stratford. Further Reading Photographs by Angus McBean: A Centenary Exhibition, Harvard Theatre Collection, 2005. Accessing These Materials All material is available for use in Houghton Library’s reading room. Digital reproductions of every contact print in the collection are available in HOLLIS Images. To locate photos of a particular production, search by keyword “McBean” and the title of the production. It is also possible to search by director, designer, venue, or year. Searches for a specific performer will return studio portraits but may not include all the production photos in which that performer appears. Reproductions and Permissions Publishable-quality images are available upon request. Researchers must also notify the library before reproducing photos by Angus McBean. When contacting us, please reference the Angus McBean archive and the image’s HOLLIS number. View Images Online Contact Houghton Library email: Email Phone number 617-495-2440 Related Collections Collection Harvard Theatre Collection Collection Harvard Theatre Collection Founded in 1901, the Harvard Theatre Collection stands as one of the oldest and largest performing arts collections in the world. Collection John Lindquist Dance Photographs Collection John Lindquist Dance Photographs Modern dance photographs from the nation’s longest-running international dance festival Collection Alix Jeffry Photographs Collection Alix Jeffry Photographs A trove of images from the early years of Off Broadway theater Collection Paul Robeson's Othello Collection Paul Robeson's Othello Records from the first major U.S. production with a multi-racial cast Collection Tennessee Williams Collection Collection Tennessee Williams Collection Explore drafts of plays, journals, correspondence, and photographs from one of America’s pioneering dramatists. Collection Shakespeare Promptbooks Collection Shakespeare Promptbooks More than 400 annotated scripts reflect the many ways performers have made Shakespeare’s plays their own. How To Access Materials at Houghton Library Houghton is home to rare books and manuscripts, literary and performing arts archives, and more. Here's how to access these primary source materials. How To Use Harvard Library's Special Collections and Archives Open to all, these unique materials can take you to places you never expected. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.