Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Wall Street Journal at Brown Help Page Create your WSJ account You can activate your WSJ account with five easy steps: Activate your Brown University Library-sponsored Journal membership at the WSJ registration page. Select an Account Type from the dropdown: student, professor, or staff. Enter your first and last name. Enter your Brown email address and create a password. The email address and password will allow access on other devices outside of the University network. Click “Create” to complete registration and create your WSJ subscription. You’ll receive an email confirmation to complete your registration. Once you have an account, you can go directly to https://www.wsj.com/. NOTE: All faculty and staff are required to refresh their access annually through the Brown URL: https://partner.wsj.com/partner/brownuniversity Already have a WSJ account? WSJ does not allow multiple subscriptions for the same user. You can cancel your existing subscription and then go through the activation process via Brown. To do this, call customer service to cancel at 1-800-JOURNAL (1-800-568-7625) and ask for the education team. Why WSJ? In a world where education and career opportunities are more competitive than ever, the need for you to obtain broader perspectives on a variety of global business issues is a necessity. Brown University Library has joined the Wall Street Journal in a collaboration that will provide students, faculty, and staff with direct access to the Journal. You can use your Brown-sponsored WSJ membership to: Research topics relevant to your courses and careers Save and share pertinent articles with others Follow companies and industries that interest you Track real-time stories and trends Follow coverage of arts, culture, and life I still need help! Email Library eresources at eresources@brown.edu for assistance. Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University