Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. McFarlin Home HOURS ASK US MY LIBRARY ACCOUNT Search the library website Go! ABOUT Events Fines & Fees History of McFarlin Library Hours Maps & Directions Message from the Dean Mission Staff Directory Welcome to the Library Video FIND MATERIALS ★ Search Summon ★ A-Z Database List Classic Catalog Course Reserves List Journal List Research Guides Textbook Reserves List GET HELP Ask a Librarian / Contact Us FAQ Quick Tips Videos Schedule a Virtual Appointment INFORMATION FOR Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate Students International Students Remote Learners Undergraduate Students Visitors LIBRARY SPACES Computer Lab & IT Help Desk Faculty Resource Center Group Study Rooms iClassrooms Writing Center SERVICES Book & Material Pickup Form Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Suggest a Purchase SPECIAL COLLECTIONS STUDENT JOBS COVID-19 GUIDE MORE LIBRARIES HCAR (Gilcrease Museum) MLIC (Law Library) McFarlin Library LibGuides Group Study Room Home Enter Search Words Search Group Study Room: Home Group Study Rooms McFarlin Library has two Group Study Rooms for use by current TU students on the Lower Level. These rooms can be reserved on the same day or simply checked out (if they are available) at the Library Service Desk. There must be two students (with their student ID cards) present to check out a group study room. The group study rooms check out for 2 hours. See below for other rules regarding the group study rooms. Group Study Room Policy Policy and procedure specifics for use of the group study rooms are as follows: ELIGIBILITY The Group Study Rooms in McFarlin Library are primarily for the use of student study groups. Those groups will receive first priority. The Dean of the Library must approve all other uses. A study group is defined as two or more students actively using a room for group study. Groups may have a maximum of eight members. The Group Study Rooms are not intended for use by scheduled classes. Schedule an iClassroom. Students in the College of Law should contact the Mabee Legal Information Center (MLIC) to reserve group study space. The McFarlin Library Group Study Rooms are intended for the use of students enrolled in other colleges at The University of Tulsa. AVAILABILITY The Group Study Rooms are available during regular library hours when classes are in session. The Group Study Rooms are not available during “extended hours” of final exam week, when some areas are open 24/7. Regular hours as noted above still apply to availability of the study room. BOOKING The Group Study Rooms may be checked out in person at the Library Service Desk if they are available. A room may be checked out two hours at a time, with an option for two more hours if the room has not been reserved. Same day reservations are also available and must be made in person at the Library Service Desk. The room may NOT be booked before the day it is needed. CHECKOUT Groups must check out a key at the Library Service Desk. There is a 15-minute “grace period” for all room reservations. Your reservation will be canceled if the room key is not checked out within 15 minutes of your start time. At least two members of the group must be present at the time of checkout and show their valid TU ID Cards. One member of the group will be responsible for checking out the key. Library staff will not hold checked out keys for groups who are not actively using the study room. A group not actively using their study room must relinquish the room and check in the key at the Library Service Desk. The study room keys are for in-library use only and must not be removed from the premises. Groups must be prepared to vacate the rooms at the conclusion of the checkout period. The study rooms must be vacated and the keys returned to the Library Service Desk one hour before closing. No exceptions. FEES A non-refundable $50 fee will be charged for a lost key. The group member on whose card the key is charged accepts full responsibility for the key and for the replacement fee and any applicable late fees. Penalty for late return of the key will result in loss of privileges for the rooms. USER RESPONSIBILITIES Group study room users are bound to the same rules as other library users. Study room users must contain noise so as not to disturb others. The study rooms are enclosed, but they are not soundproof. The following activities are not allowed in the study rooms: painting, practicing music, eating, partying, club meetings, using tobacco, holding office hours, conducting recruitment sessions or any activities disruptive to others. Study room users must clean up after themselves, clear the table, clean the whiteboard and remove trash when exiting the room. The windows, including the door window, of the study room may not be covered in any way. Furniture may not be moved into or out of the study room. Study groups in violation of library policy risk either temporary or permanent loss of group study checkout privileges. Behaviors that will result in expulsion from a room include but are not limited to: Disruptive behavior; Threatening behavior; Vandalism (including writing on walls and windows) Failure to adhere to library policies governing food and drink. The key-holder assumes responsibility for locking the door to the group study upon exit and for reporting any problems discovered with the room (graffiti, damage to furniture, spills, inoperative or damaged equipment, etc.). LIBRARY RIGHTS/RESPONSIBILITIES The library reserves the right to recall a checked out room at any time. The library reserves the right to deny group study room checkout to any users/groups found in violation of group study room and/or library policy. The library is not responsible for personal belongings left in the room. Last Updated: Jan 10, 2022 12:43 PM URL: https://libraries.utulsa.edu/GroupStudy Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. About Events Fines & Fees History of McFarlin Library Hours Maps & Directions Message from the Dean Mission Staff Directory Welcome to the Library Video Find Materials ★ Search Summon ★ A-Z Database List Classic Catalog Course Reserves List Journal List Research Guides Textbook Reserves List Get Help Ask a Librarian / Contact Us FAQ Quick Tips Videos Schedule a Virtual Appointment Information For: Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate Students International Students Remote Learners Undergraduate Students Visitors Library Spaces Computer Lab & IT Help Desk Faculty Resource Center Group Study Rooms iClassrooms Special Collections Writing Center More Libraries HCAR (Gilcrease Museum) MLIC (Law Library) Services Book & Material Pickup Form Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Suggest a Purchase Site Policies Digital Accessibility Policy The University of Tulsa · McFarlin Library · 2933 East 6th Street · Tulsa, OK 74104-3123 · (918) 631-2871 · Facebook Library Staff Login (Libguides) · Print this page