Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU HDS Home Email My.HDS HOLLIS ATLA Religion Database Search Google main search box code About Contact the Library Directions Hours Find Your Way Book a Group Study Room Library News Mission and History Research Tools Key Databases Essential Tools and Services M.Div. Senior Paper FAQ Citation Tools Research Guides How to Find Archives Help & Services Collections Religion Collections at Harvard Collection Strengths Special Collections Unitarian Universalist Resources Digital Collections Collections Beyond Harvard Ask Us HOME / HELP & SERVICES / Visitors While Harvard Divinity School Library primarily serves the Harvard community, there are ways for those not affiliated with Harvard to use the library. Visitors must show a photo ID and sign our visitor log. Visitors may access reading rooms for consulting general-use in-library materials. Book borrowing and access to restricted stack areas are not included. Special collections are available to anyone and require registration. Contact Research Services to make an appointment. Visitors may use computers in the library space to access licensed digital resources. Visitors are eligible to purchase a Library Borrowing Card from Harvard Library's Access and Borrowing Office at Widener Library to borrow books from multiple Harvard libraries. Borrowing privileges only at Divinity can be established for no additional fee at the circulation desk of the Divinity Library for those eligible. Print, Scan, Copy, Wifi See "Print, Scan, & Copy" on the Help & Services page of this website. Research Help Research help is available! Connect with a subject expert to work on any research-related question, problem, or skill. Help & Services Faculty BTI Affiliates Alumni Visitors See Weekly Hours HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL LIBRARY 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 617.495.5788 my.hds | Harvard University | Harvard Library | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Trademark Notice | Reporting Copyright Infringements Copyright © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. HDS Library Styles Code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement