Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions ArticleExpress Contact ILSBorr@princeton.edu 609.258.3272 ArticleExpress is the Library’s electronic document delivery service available to current members of the Princeton University community. Journal articles, book chapters or selections, conference proceedings papers, and newspaper articles are available through ArticleExpress. The service offers electronic delivery of these materials in the shortest possible time. Submitting requests to ArticleExpress: Please submit only 1 article or book chapter per request. This helps our staff effectively track and manage requests. Accurate and complete citation information will enable us to process requests in the shortest possible time. You will receive email notification when your requested material is available. Documents will be available for your use for 21 days. These items are for personal research use only, and should not be shared or distributed. Check on the status of your requests by logging into your ArticleExpress account and navigating down to "Reviewing requests." There is no limit on the number of requests you can submit via the service, however we suggest that you submit no more than 5 per day. Our goal is to fill requests as quickly as possible. If a large number of requests are submitted in a day, delivery time may increase. Keep requests for an article or chapter to 50 scanned pages or fewer. Please limit requests to no more than 3 chapters from the same book or 3 articles from the same journal issue. Our document suppliers may not fulfill requests for more than these amounts. With monographs, if more than 50 pages or 3 chapters are needed, we urge you to check out the book or request it via BorrowDirect. If you forget your password, go to Forgot Password. You can also contact us (609-258-3272) or docdel@princeton.edu. Copyright statement and costs When you register as a new user of the ArticleExpress (or Interlibrary Loan) service, you will be asked to read and accept the copyright statement before proceeding. Copyright costs will be covered by the ArticleExpress Service, up to a maximum of $50 per request. FAQ For more information on ArticleExpress, please see our Frequently Asked Questions page. ArticleExpress Username Password First-Time User? Princeton NetID Holders sign in with your ID and Password in the form above Non Princeton NetID Holders use: Register Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top