My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) Using the Libraries Workshops Workshops Ongoing Workshops We offer ongoing, regular occuring workshops on key resources throughout the semester. These sessions are typically held via Zoom and are open to anyone at Columbia. They are held weekly at various days and times to make them easy to fit into your schedule, and are all one hour or less. Popular workshops include: Getting Your Bearings: An introduction to library essentials, including services and collections Let’s Use CLIO: A hands-on workshop on using the catalog to find books and other library materials Database Demo: A demonstration-based session on how to search various databases effectively (ProQuest, JSTOR, etc.) Citation Management with Zotero: A primer on the free, easy-to-use citation management software Zotero Tailored Workshops Instructors can schedule a tailored library instruction session on software tools or library services for small groups. Teaching with the Libraries The Columbia University Libraries provides a range of programs and services to enhance the teaching and scholarship of faculty and other instructors, including course sessions, research appointments, and teaching with special collections. Go to Teaching with the Libraries Online Tutorials LinkedIn Learning Software Tutorials Self-training site for hundreds of softwares Log in with your Columbia UNI GIS Self-paced Online Courses From Books to Bytes: Navigating the Research Ecosystem: a set of online resources that define the research cycle, provide students with practical strategies, and guide students through the vast resources available to them at Columbia. The series is made up of six modules that consist of an informational video and several handouts that contain strategies, exercises, and worksheets, all designed with pedagogy and accessibility in mind. Feedback & Suggestions Feedback, suggestions, and questions can be directed to: teaching-learning-comm@library.columbia.edu [Section Heading] Workshops Loading... Event Details × Close Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Access Privileges Access to Other Libraries Accessibility Alumni Borrow, Request, Renew Course Reserves Print, Scan, Digitize Study Spaces Visitors Workshops Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian