top of page Skip to Main Content menu homepage Search X Libraries list Archives & Special Collections home Art Library home Ekstrom Library home Kornhauser Health Sciences Library home Law Library home Music Library home University of Louisville Hospital home Accounts list Interlibrary Loan Off-Campus Login Renew Books Blackboard Cardinal Card Email My Print Center ULink Business Ops CardBox CardSmart Cards Career Connection UofL Folio X Search Site Site search Search U of L Libraries site GO Search Catalog homepage Libraries Archives & Special Collections Art Library Ekstrom Library Kornhauser Health Sciences Library Law Library Music Library University of Louisville Hospital Accounts Interlibrary Loan Off-Campus Login Renew Books Blackboard Cardinal Card Email My Print Center ULink Business Ops CardBox CardSmart Cards Career Connection UofL Folio University of Louisville UofL Libraries Research DIY Finding Statistics & Data Home Site search Search U of L Libraries site search Finding Statistics & Data: Home Step by Step Instructions Finding statistics in Statista Go to the Data & Statistics library guide at library.louisville.edu/ekstrom/DataAndStats. On the Finding Data & Statistics library guide, click on the Key Statistical Resources tab to view statistics databases like Statista. In Statista, use the search bar to search for your topic (e.g. juvenile crime). On the results page, you can limit by types of statistics, studies, and reports, as well as Region, Country, Industry, or Publication Date. Click on any result to view a chart of the statistic. Click the PDF button (or any other format) to download the chart. Click the Source tab and follow the Source Link to view the source for this statistic, which might include the full report. Finding data in ICPSR Go to the Data & Statistics library guide at library.louisville.edu/ekstrom/DataAndStats. On the Finding Data & Statistics library guide, click on the Key Data Resources tab to view data databases like ICPSR. In ICPSR, use the search bar to search for your topic (e.g. juvenile crime). On the results page, you can limit by Subject, Data Type, Time Period, and more. Click on any result. Within the result, you'll see a Summary at the top and a more in-depth study information further down. Click the Data & Documentation tab to view all data files and use the Download option to save the data in your preferred file format. Finding data and statistics using Google Use site: .gov to find data and statistics on your topic in Google. For example, type site: .gov Lousiville statistics to view government websites containing statistics about the city of Louisville. Related Resources Finding Data and Statistics Statista Inter-University Consortium of Political & Social Research (ICPSR) Research Discover It Yourself Ask Us ? top of page bottom of page Discover. Create. Succeed. Contacts Addresses Contact Form Frequently Asked Questions for all University Libraries Personnel Directory Site Site Index / Site Map Image Credits Privacy Sharepoint Follow UofL Libraries Facebook Twitter icon by Freepik University Libraries News on WordPress More social media icon Apply for admission to UofL Campus Maps IT HelpDesk Jobs at UofL Last Updated: Apr 6, 2022 11:53 AM Librarian Login