Clemson University A-Z Index Phonebook MENUMENU Find & Borrow Find Books, Articles & More Databases Journals Course Reserves Research & Course Guides WorldCat Borrow Technology Interlibrary Loan PASCAL Delivers Scan and Deliver Off-Campus Delivery Service Explore - State Park Passes Borrowing Privileges Unique collections Gunnin Architecture Library Digital Collections Education Media Center & Digital Media Learning Lab Special Collections and Archives TigerPrints Help Finding Library Materials Borrowing Help Offsite Shelving Circulation Policies Library Fines and Fees Proxy Card Service Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Research & Teaching Research Support Research & Course Guides Citation Management Subject Librarians Undergraduate Research Award Teaching Support Course Instruction Workshops Tutorials Course Reserves Open Educational Resources (OER) Digital Scholarship & Publishing Data Services Digital Projects Support Publishing & Copyright Clemson University Press Help Getting Started with Research Proxy Card Service Purchase Request Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Study & Create Study Spaces Library Locations Learning Commons Creative Spaces Adobe Digital Studio Brown Digital Lab Cooper Makerspace Digital Media Learning Lab Geospatial Center Scholars’ Lab Amenities Starbucks - Cooper Library POD - Cooper Library Reflection Room Help Find Printers & Scanners Academic Success Center CCIT Support Center Michelin Career Center Writing Lab Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions About Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Locations & Parking Floor Maps Our Organization Welcome from the Dean News Staff Directory Policies Accessibility Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Library Residents Program Strategic Plan Organizational Chart Libraries Reorganization Overview Cooper 2.0: A Vision for the Future Employment Opportunities Clemson Libraries Advisory Committee Library Depot Giving Giving Home Honor with Books Fund Friends of the Libraries Help Contact Us Records Management Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Make a Suggestion R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU My Account Giving Help Clemson Libraries names Cromartie associate dean for organizational performance and inclusion Posted on May 18, 2022 Clemson Libraries has named Shamella Cromartie, associate dean of libraries at Western Carolina University, as its new associate dean for organizational performance and inclusion. Cromartie will start at Clemson on July 1. Cromartie will oversee the libraries’ diversity, equity and inclusion efforts, as well as assessment, marketing and communications, digital strategies and learning environments. She is one of three new associate deans joining the libraries as part of its reorganization being implemented in July. Cromartie served at Western Carolina for nearly three years, leading areas such as strategic planning, assessment, user services and accreditation and serving as chair of the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Committee. She also served as the inaugural chair of the Black Faculty and Staff Assembly at Western Carolina. Prior to that, she served as head of public services for the library at Fayetteville State University and has held positions at both academic and public libraries. “Shamella will be an outstanding addition to the Clemson Libraries leadership team,” said Libraries Dean Chris Cox. “She will play a critical role as we implement our reorganization, and her experience and past leadership in assessment, strategic planning and change management will be an incredible asset for us. I am also excited to have her leading our diversity, equity and inclusion efforts as we continue to strive to make the libraries a welcoming place for everyone at Clemson.” Cromartie earned a Bachelor of Arts in political science and a Bachelor of Science in criminal justice both from Fayetteville State University. She earned her Master of Library Science with an academic concentration from North Carolina Central University, and she is currently working towards her Doctor of Education in educational leadership at Western Carolina University. She is a member of the Black Caucus of the American Library Association and the American Association of University Women. She has held various leadership positions in the North Carolina Library Association, which recognized her with the Roadbuilders Award from the Roundtable on Ethnic Minority Concerns in 2019. Earlier this year, she received the I Love My Librarian Award from the American Library Association for her inclusive approach to supporting research and scholarship at Western Carolina. She was selected from more than 1,300 nominations from library users across the country. Clemson University Libraries 116 Sigma Drive, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3027 Directory Employment Contact Us