Skip to main content Contact Us My Accounts Give to UH Libraries University of Houston Libraries Search Borrow Research & Learning Spaces & Technology About Home > Libraries & Collections Libraries & Collections MD Anderson Library MD Anderson Library is the main library on campus. MDA Hours | Maps & Directions | Floor maps Special Collections Located inside the main library, on the 2nd floor, rm 260. Digital Research Commons Located inside the main library, on the 2nd floor, rm 266. William R. Jenkins Architecture, Design, & Art Library Located in Gerald D. Hines College of Architecture and Design, rm 106. Jenkins Hours | Maps & Directions Music Library Located in the Moores School of Music, rm 220. Music Hours | Maps & Directions Health Sciences Library Located in the Health 2 building, rm 2222. HSL Hours | Maps & Directions Online collections & repositories Digital Collections Search rare and unique items from the UH Libraries Collections. A/V Repository Free online access to rare historical audio and video items from UH Libraries and archives. Cougar ROAR Home of the University of Houston’s open access digital repositories. UH scholars are encouraged to deposit their work. Other campus libraries The following libraries are administered by their respective colleges, not UH Libraries. O’Quinn Law Library at UH Law Center Located in the UH Law Center. Hospitality Industry Archives at Hilton College Located in the Conrad N. Hilton College of Hotel and Restaurant Management. Contact Us Send a message Staff Directory Departments Visit a Location or Collection Maps & Directions Request a Purchase Frequently Asked Questions Give Us Your Feedback 4333 University Drive Houston, TX 77204-2000 (713) 743-1050 Privacy Policy Hours Employment Directory Give Us Feedback Contact Us Give to UH Libraries Libraries & Collections Maps & Directions UH Libraries News Site Search Site Map Search Borrow Research & Learning Spaces & Technology About UH Home facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Please ensure Javascript is enabled for purposes of website accessibility