Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Collections Shakespeare Promptbooks More than 400 annotated scripts reflect the many ways performers have made Shakespeare’s plays their own. Drawing of the graveyard scene from a souvenir promptbook for Edwin Booth's "Hamlet," 1870 View Details. Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library Promptbooks from the Harvard Theatre Collection document over three centuries of Shakespeare plays in performance, ranging from a 17th-century staging of Hamlet to modern productions at Harvard’s own American Repertory Theater. The annotated scripts, over 400 in all, reflect the myriad ways performers have made Shakespeare’s plays their own. What Is a Promptbook? Promptbooks are scripts that have been marked up for performance. They can be roughly grouped into two categories. There are true working scripts kept by stage managers or prompters which typically include cast lists, stage directions, blocking diagrams, and cues for effects like lighting and music. They often indicate cuts or alterations to the text made during rehearsals. And their condition frequently betrays their long history of service. Promptbooks kept by actors might also include notes on pronunciation, movement, or a characters’ psychology. The other type of promptbook is intended as a record or souvenir. These volumes are polished versions of the working script that seek to capture details about a production’s final form. Lighting instructions for the ghost scene from a promptbook for Henry Irving's "Hamlet," 1874. View Details. Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library Highlights Promptbook for "Romeo & Juliet" starring Charlotte Cushman, circa 1852. View Details. Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library The oldest promptbook in the collection is marked for the part of Hamlet, most likely by actor Thomas Betterton. It is one of three surviving Hamlet promptbooks from the 1600s and the only one at Harvard. A promptbook for an 1850s production of Romeo & Juliet follows the then-popular version with Juliet waking before Romeo dies. The production starred Charlotte Cushman who achieved international fame for playing Romeo opposite her sister Susan and others as Juliet. Charles Kean’s 1858 production of A Midsummer Night’s Dream is an elaborate example of a souvenir promptbook that includes 11 watercolor drawings of the drop curtain and ten of the scenes. The collection also includes handwritten parts for incidental music as well as scripts with just the lines and cues for a specific role, called sides. Ian McKellen used this promptbook from his one-man show Acting Shakespeare during its Boston run in 1987. Related Collections Shakespeare promptbooks can also be found in the following collections: British prompt book and theatrical manuscript collection (circa 1680-2000) American Shakespeare Theatre (Stratford, Conn.) plays and prompt books (1956-1982) American Repertory Theater records (1979-2019) Accessing These Materials All material is available for use in Houghton Library’s reading room. Most promptbooks are cataloged as part of the Shakespeare Promptbook Collection. A catalog of the collection was published in Harvard Library Bulletin in 1987. Later additions can be found in HOLLIS. Contact Houghton Library email: Email Phone number 617-495-2440 Related Collections Collection Harvard Theatre Collection Collection Harvard Theatre Collection Founded in 1901, the Harvard Theatre Collection stands as one of the oldest and largest performing arts collections in the world. Collection Angus McBean Photographic Archive Collection Angus McBean Photographic Archive Angus McBean's iconic portraits of actors and entertainers are among the most complete visual records of the British stage from the 1930s through the 1960s. Collection Russian Theatrical Designs Collection Russian Theatrical Designs Stunning set and costume designs from the 20th century's most influential ballet company, the Ballets Russes How To Access Materials at Houghton Library Houghton is home to rare books and manuscripts, literary and performing arts archives, and more. Here's how to access these primary source materials. How To Use Harvard Library's Special Collections and Archives Open to all, these unique materials can take you to places you never expected. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.