Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Locations & Hours Lamont Library Spaces Get Help What's Happening Collections Today: 9am - 5pm See All Hours Highlights A 24-hour creative space with a wide range of services supporting the humanities and social sciences. Collaborative or quiet study Media post-production Data visualization Tech loan — and, a café! Open to Harvard ID holders. Full access policy Discover our spaces Study. Focus. Relax. Contact Harvard Yard Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions email: lamcirc@fas.harvard.edu Phone number 617-495-2452 View Staff Directory Less contact information More contact information Spaces At Lamont you can find spaces suited to collaboration or quiet study, a lab for multimedia production and data visualization, and more. Woodberry Poetry Room The Woodberry Poetry Room is a welcoming special collections reading rooms on the second floor of Lamont. Visit the Poetry Room Media Lab Computers, equipment and help for everything from media creation and production to statistical analysis and data visualization. More About This Space Media Lab Annex A quiet space for working on multimedia projects, these computers feature an array of media and visualization software. More About This Space Farnsworth Room The Farnsworth Room is a quiet, light-filled space with a series of nooks perfect for studying. More About This Space Donatelli Reading Room The Donatelli Reading Room features group study tables, carrels with outlet strips, and soft-seating. More About This Space Find a Space at Lamont Filter by noise level, comfy furniture and more. Explore Lamont Spaces Get Help Services and Tools Service Lamont Multimedia Lab Your one-stop shop for media creation and data visualization, including editing and production for audio and video. Service Visualization Support Get help and training with data visualization design and tools—such as Tableau—for the Harvard community. Service Tech Loan Access to laptops, chargers, 360 degree cameras, VR equipment and more for members of the Harvard community. Service Digital Mapping and GIS Support Get help with maps, mapping, geographic information systems, and other geospatial tools, as well as cartographic design. Service Research Consultations Get personalized guidance from one of our library specialists online or in-person—no question is too small. Service Course Reserves We work with faculty and instructors to help provide students with access to course materials. How To... How To Borrow, Renew and Return Library Materials Connect with the library materials you need to get your work done. How To Learn Remotely for Harvard Students Participating in a Harvard class remotely? Harvard Library can help. What's Happening Exhibits Maps That Tell the Story of Me and My Ancestors Philip Hofer Prize, 2018 Aug 20, 2018 through May 10, 2019 Winning Collections in Undergraduate Book Collecting Aug 20, 2018 through May 10, 2019 Harvard College International Photo Contest Winners Apr 1, 2019 through Mar 29, 2020 Collections Collection Data and Government Information Collections Collection Data and Government Information Collections Lamont Library is home to a vast and encompassing array of data and government collections, in both print and digital form, as well as the expertise to make the best use of these collections for your research. Collection Environmental Science and Public Policy Archives Collection Environmental Science and Public Policy Archives A globally important special collection for environment and sustainability science, intergovernmental policy, and cultural perspectives on the environment. Collection Henry Weston Farnsworth Room Collection Henry Weston Farnsworth Room An eclectic collection of leisure reading including mysteries, science fiction, travel books and literary bestsellers. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.