Off-Campus Access | Library A–Z | Hours & Locations Search: Search BruKnow Library Website WorldCat Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Brown University Library Collections Economics Collections Select a different subject group Africana Alcohol and Addiction Studies American Culture and Society Art and Architecture Asian Studies Author Collections Book Arts Brown University Archives & History Business Children's Literature Disability Studies Early Printed Books Economics Education European Studies Fine and Decorative Arts Gender and Sexuality Studies Graphic Arts History (Non-United States) History (United States) History of Medicine History of Science, Mathematics, Technology Iberia, Latin America, and Latino Indigenous Studies Language & Literature, Non-Western LGBTQ Literature (Non-United States) Literature (United States) Magic and Occult Manuscript Collections Middle Eastern Studies Military History and Iconography Museum Objects Collections Performing Arts Political Science Printing and Publishing History Race and Ethnicity Religion Rhode Island/Local Interest Russia and Eastern Europe Science Fiction and Fantasy South Asia Women Return to Collections A to Z Index Brown (Harold) The Harold Brown papers, dated from 1878 to 1920, include legal and business documents, personal and business correspondence, two unpublished manuscripts, miscellaneous bills paid, two cashbooks and an inventory of Harold Brown's estate. ...more information Cramer Silver The Cramer Collection, consisting of approximately 900 volumes, was compiled over several decades by Diana Cramer, Editor of Silver Magazine until her death in 1993, and author of a number of important articles on silver design and decorative arts. The principle strengths of the collection are in the history of silver design and silversmithing, worldwide, from early modern times to the present; however, also included are a range of materials on American decorative arts -- jewelry, glass, furniture, architecture -- from the colonial period through the early 20th century. The collection documents the craft process, as well as the end product, and includes trade catalogs, exhibition brochures, collectors guides, and miscellaneous research publications. A title list may be viewed by doing a "word" or "author" search for "Cramer Silver" in JOSIAH. The Cramer Collection supplements, and provides reference material for, the Gorham Company Archive. ...more information French American Charitable Trust (FACT) The French American Charitable Trust was founded in 1990 by the Feeney family, a family with roots in France and the United States, to address fundamental inequalities and injustices in society. Their mission was to help develop and sustain networks of community-based groups in the United States and France that educate, organize, and empower people to actively participate in developing public policies that directly affect their lives. They spent all of the money in the endowment between 1990 and 2012 and closed the foundation in 2012. ...more information Frost Currency The bank notes and documents in this collection were collected by Michael Freezy Frost. He was born in 1932 in Tulsa, Oklahoma and died on February 08, 2012 in McAllen, Texas. This collection contains examples of 26 pieces of currency, of varying types, issued in Rhode Island between 1775-1929, one bank note issued in Delaware in 1759, and 5 documents related to the fiscal history of 18th century Rhode Island. ...more information Gilman Land Company The records of Gilman Land Company, 1905-1942, document the official incorporation, financial transactions, and activities of the company throughout its history as presented at corporate meetings, official accounting records and correspondence between officers and their agents. The material is arranged by format and includes correspondence, meeting records, architectural maps and drawings, legal documents and financial records. ...more information Hartland-Thunberg (Penelope) This collection consists of the papers of Penelope Hartland-Thunberg '40, economist, expert on international trade and finance, and member of the United States Tariff Commission (1965-1969) and Central Intelligence Agency (ca.1954-1978). The collection documents Hartland-Thunberg's professional life and scholarship. Materials include biographical information, correspondence, files pertaining to her role at the Georgetown Center for Economic and Strategic Studies, writings, speeches, and photographs dating from 1950-2004. ...more information Hinrichs (Albert Ford) This collection consists primarily of letters describing the USSR in 1930 and 1932 as it appeared to an American economist. Also included is miscellaneous biographical information relating to the author. ...more information Portuguese Africa This collection is comprised of Portuguese language manuscript materials documenting the settlement and colonization of Angola (1690-1790 and 1828-1941), and includes correspondence between the Bank of Lisbon and the Azores from 1930-1931 and documents from the Cape Verde Islands in the first half of the 19th century. Topics covered by the materials in the collection include governance and administration, population, public education, finances, history, agriculture, navigation and commerce, military affairs and related topics. ...more information Stoltz, Merton P. files as provost of Brown University Merton Philip Stoltz (1913-1989) held many positions during his tenure at Brown University: Professor of Economics, associate dean of the Graduate School, dean of the University, provost, and acting president. The materials in this collection primarily relate to his work as provost. It include office files, correspondence, and committee files dated from 1959 to 1978. It includes materials from various campus offices, speeches, projects, and committees regarding the comprehensive involvement of a Provost at the University. It includes significant materials related to the student exchange program and relationship between Tougaloo College, an historically black college in Tougaloo, Mississippi, and Brown University. ...more information White (William Wurts) Family The William Wurts White family papers are comprised of correspondence and legal and financial documents related to settling the estates of William Wurts White (1841-1911), his sister, Ella C. White (-1904), and his son, Merwin White (1877-1920). ...more information Return to Collections A to Z Index Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet