My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) Services & Tools Services for Faculty Library Instruction Modules Library Instruction Modules "From Books to Bytes: Navigating the Research Ecosystem," created by the Libraries in partnership with the Center for Teaching and Learning, is a set of online resources that define the research cycle, provide students with practical strategies, and guide students through the vast resources available to them at Columbia. The primary audience for this series is Columbia-affiliated students. In addition, “From Books to Bytes” provides faculty and instructors The Instructor Toolkit, a guide on how instructors can: contact and collaborate with a librarian to best leverage the series in class, access the series on CourseWorks, and utilize instructional strategies and assessment techniques to disseminate the content. The series is made up of six modules that consist of an informational video and several handouts that contain strategies, exercises, and worksheets, all designed with pedagogy and accessibility in mind. GO TO COURSE IN COURSEWORKS, or, explore a content preview here: Develop a Research Strategy This module breaks the research process into manageable phases, including how to develop a research question, create a project timeline, identify appropriate resources, and draft an outline. Handouts provide additional instructions on how to compose a research question, conduct database searches, and use boolean operators. Go to CourseWorks Module View video and handouts on YouTube Recognize Bias This module enables viewers to identify and counter bias in common research scenarios, with information about where to search for information, research strategies, and potential data. Handouts further viewers’ understanding of research bias through case studies and a glossary of terms related to research bias. Go to CourseWorks Module View video and handouts on YouTube &amp;amp;nbsp; Understand Research Data This module defines research data and helps viewers to find, utilize, and manage research data ethically. Handouts address F.A.I.R. Data Principles, data management, and the concept of an Institutional Review Board (IRB). Go to CourseWorks Module View video and handouts on YouTube &amp;amp;amp;nbsp; Archives and Primary Sources This module prepares students to explore the Libraries’ vast collection of archival and rare primary sources. Handouts provide strategies for analyzing sources and best practices for handling library materials. Go to CourseWorks Module View video and handouts on YouTube &amp;amp;amp;nbsp; Cite and Organize Sources This module clarifies the role of citation in academic research and provides examples of how to apply appropriate citation and citation-management strategies to a specific field of study. Handouts demonstrate how to create an annotated bibliography and cite in the three most common citation styles, MLA, APA, and Chicago styles. Go to CourseWorks Module View video and handouts on YouTube &amp;amp;amp;nbsp; Preserve and Share Your Research This module explores the publishing process (both traditional and digital) and explains the ways in which the Libraries can provide support and advice for publishing projects. Handouts elaborate on strategies for evaluating and selecting appropriate journals and other mediums in which to publish, understanding authors’ rights, and employing new modes of research and scholarship. Go to CourseWorks Module View video and handouts on YouTube &amp;amp;amp;nbsp; Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Ask a Librarian Course Reserves Digital Scholarship Research Data Services Study Spaces Library Information Office Preservation & Digital Conversion Division Request Items & Services Other Library Catalogs Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian