Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Alumni in the Library Brown Alumni can borrow and make on-site use of materials at the Rockefeller, Sciences, and Orwig Libraries upon purchasing a Brown Card. To obtain a Brown card, please visit the Brown Card Office in person at Page-Robinson Hall, 69 Brown Street, 5th Floor, Room 511. The John Hay Library is open to the public. Visit the John Hay Library website for information about accessing special collections materials. Please review the visitor guidelines before making your way to a Library. Online Resources Since 2010, the Library has been offering a subset of licensed electronic resources to alumni, providing access to the full text of nearly 5,000 scholarly and business publications and newspapers. These can be accessed by logging into your myBrown account. More information is available on the Brown Alumni Association Benefits page. In addition to the 5,000 resources available remotely, alumni may access nearly all of the Library’s electronic resources when using the public terminals in the libraries. Stay Connected with Your Library Sign up for the Library e-newsletter View the archive of Library e-newsletters Become a Friend of the Library – Stay connected to your Brown University Library and support important initiatives like the Daniel G. Siegel ’57 Fellowship. Peruse the digital bookplates – Created in honor of donors who have established endowments, digital bookplates resemble traditional paper bookplates and link to materials that have been purchased using the endowment’s funds. Digital bookplates are also created to honor graduating Library student staff members. Give to the Library Donate materials to the Library Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University