Off-Campus Access | Library A–Z | Hours & Locations Search: Search BruKnow Library Website WorldCat Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Brown University Library Collections Literature (Non-United States) Collections Select a different subject group Africana Alcohol and Addiction Studies American Culture and Society Art and Architecture Asian Studies Author Collections Book Arts Brown University Archives & History Business Children's Literature Disability Studies Early Printed Books Economics Education European Studies Fine and Decorative Arts Gender and Sexuality Studies Graphic Arts History (Non-United States) History (United States) History of Medicine History of Science, Mathematics, Technology Iberia, Latin America, and Latino Indigenous Studies Language & Literature, Non-Western LGBTQ Literature (Non-United States) Literature (United States) Magic and Occult Manuscript Collections Middle Eastern Studies Military History and Iconography Museum Objects Collections Performing Arts Political Science Printing and Publishing History Race and Ethnicity Religion Rhode Island/Local Interest Russia and Eastern Europe Science Fiction and Fantasy South Asia Women Return to Collections A to Z Index Aldrich Collection of American, British, and some European (primarily French) illustrated children's books, donated to Brown University in June 1990. The appraiser's catalog included with the collection lists: Chapbooks 1780-1840 (31 items); English 1840-1952 (213 items); Pre-1835 American (11 items); American gift and miniature (5 items); American primers and prayer books (6 items); American 1835-1954 (115 items); European 1850-1940 (35 items); Reference (6 items). The total, 423 items, reflects a slightly different way of counting sets of Kate Greenaway ephemera. The collection was donated to the Library by Aldrich's nephew, Mr. David Rockefeller. ...more information Annmary Brown Memorial In 1948, Brown University assumed ownership of the Annmary Brown Memorial. The Memorial, built by Civil War General Rush C. Hawkins and named in honor of his wife, contained an internationally know incunabula collection as well as old master paintings and drawings, Revolutionary and Civil War manuscripts and documents, plus the personal correspondence of its founder. These incunabula along with others in Special Collections make up one of the largest collections of 15th-century printed books owned by an American university. In addition to incunables, the collection contains sizeable manuscript holdings relating to the American Revolutionary and Civil Wars, and to the 17th-century New England witchcraft phenomenon. There are also some medieval manuscript books and documents, including papal letters. The books and manuscripts are now kept in the John Hay Library. ...more information Atwood (Mary Anne) The Mary Anne Atwood Papers contains about 700 letters and manuscripts for the period 1882-1910. Most of the letters in the collection are written from M.A. Atwood to Mme. Isabelle de Steiger. The collection also includes other letters written and received by Atwood, manuscript drafts and notes. According to the admirers of Mary Anne Atwood, "Mrs. Atwood was truly an adept [of the metaphysical tradition]. The last one." "The Atwood material is very important for the study of a vanished Britain, when Neo-Platonism and High Ideas influenced the nation. But, as Mrs. Atwood says, they went in for power and threw their spiritual heritage out the window." ...more information Blake (Damon) Blake scholar S. Foster Damon's collection of ca. 300 editions of William Blake's works, and critical and historical works about Blake. The collection contains original editions of some of Blake's source materials, a few of his own works, and works on which Blake collaborated. There are also such items as an excellent collection of sheet music for Blake's poems, a wide variety of prints, and a Blake Bible. The collection also has value for its marginalia by Foster Damon, along with his Blake notebooks, correspondence, and unpublished manuscripts. The Blake collection has been supplemented by modern editions of Blake, Trianon Press editions, and other fine printing. 1972 bequest of S. Foster Damon. ...more information Blake (Howard Milton) The Howard Milton Blake papers are comprised of multiple versions of verse and prose written by Blake. The collection was edited before it came to Brown University by Robert Kent and was published under the title "The Island of Self: Poems of Howard Blake" (Boston 1973). The book reproduces almost all of the verse in the collection, but none of the prose; there is, however, a reprint of Blake's preface to his only published book of verse "Prolegomena To Any Future Poetry" (Boston 1936). ...more information Brown-Ives Shakespeare 350 volumes of Shakespeariana, acquired in 1845 with fund provided by Moses Brown Ives. Rich in 18th century studies of textual controversies and the Ireland forgeries, it was one of the earliest university collections devoted to the study of Shakespeare. Supplemented by a gift from John Carter Brown of numerous 18th and 19th century editions of the plays in English, French and German. ...more information Carvely (Andrew) Consists primarily of printed works by and about T.E. Lawrence, collected by Andrew Carvely, and acquired from his estate in 1998. The collection comprises four categories: books by Lawrence including forwards, introductions, and translations; books about Lawrence including compilations of his letters, association copies, and ephemera including journal articles, newspaper articles, programs, brochures, posters and an original oil painting by Glen Schomburg commissioned by Andrew Carvely. The collection is particularly strong in works in Arabic and Hebrew. Gifts and purchases continue to augment the original collection. This collection supplements holdings of T.E. Lawrence editions acquired earlier from the library of Francis H. Chafee, including the 1926 subscriber's edition of The Seven Pillars of Wisdom. Further information about the collection and the collector is available in a catalog produced for an exhibition at the John Hay Library, March 2 - April 30, 1998: T.E. Lawrence: A 20th century retrospective by Kathi Frances McGraw and Andrew Carvely. [May 2002] ...more information Chapin (Charles V.) The library of Charles Value Chapin, consisting primarily of Greek and Latin classics in English translation. It came to the Brown as part of the Rhode Island Medical Society Library. ...more information Crosby (Harry) Harry Crosby (born 1898) was an American poet and publisher also known as Henry Sturgis Crosby or Henry Grew Crosby. An American expatriate in Paris in the 1920s, his work expresses his disapproval of Puritan hypocrisy and his fascination for the cult of the sun. His Black Sun Press published special editions of James Joyce, T.S. Eliot, and other contemporaries. Crosby committed suicide in New York on 10 December 1929.The collection includes 19 letters to Constance Atherton, Comtesse de Jumilhac; letters from Atherton and related correspondence; two notebooks with letter and unpublished aphorisms addressed to Atherton; book belonging to Harry and Caresse Crosby; ten manuscript notebooks; page proofs (bound) for Shadows of the Sun and for Chariot of the Sun; other writings; two albums of photographs; and Caresse Crosby's correspondence with several writers/editors/publishers. The collection also includes Crosby's last will and testament; typescript (carbon) of his The De Geetere Maldoror; and a biographical sketch of him written by his wife, Caresse Crosby. ...more information Cushman (Asa) Plays in Parts and Prompt Copies Plays in manuscript parts and prompt copies, the working library of a mid-19th century actor-manager. Includes 24 American and 21 English plays in manuscript, and 385 English and American printed plays of the 18th and 19th century, with Cushman's notes. Notable for a copy in parts of Uncle Tom's Cabin; Cushman was the original Tom Loker in the 1852 production of George Aiken's version of the play. ...more information Dante The Chambers Dante Collection of approximately 1,700 volumes was formed by the English Scholar William F. Chambers during a long residence in Florence. The collection was donated to Brown by Henry D. Sharpe, Class of 1894, through the intercession of Brown Prof. Courtney Langdon. The collection's strengths are in scholarly editions of the 15th through the 19th centuries of Dante's works, in particular the Divine Comedy, commentaries (chiefly in Italian), translations, and other reference, biographical and historical works. Prof. Langdon's literary and critical manuscripts have been added to the collection. ...more information Foster In 1934 Julia Foster, widow of William Eaton Foster, Class of 1873 and Librarian of the Providence Public Library from 1877 to 1930, presented one volume of her husband's collection, Horace's Opera (Florence, 1482), to the Library as a token of her intent to donate the entire collection.The complete 600 volume Foster Horace Collection with its finely printed editions from the presses of Aldus, Elsevir, Estienne, Plantin, Baskerville, Bodoni, Didot and others came to Brown in 1940.The collection includes editions, commentaries, school texts, translations and parodies. For further information on the Foster Horace Collection see the article by Ben C. Clough (1889-1975), professor of English and Classics in Books at Brown, vol. 5, no. 2, December 1942. ...more information Frost (Edwin Collins) and William Henry Frost This collection, dating from 1890 to 1941, consists of letters addressed to both Edwin Collins Frost (1867-1956) and William Henry Frost (1863-1902) and a small autograph collection. Edwin Collins Frost was an assistant and instructor of rhetoric at Brown University from 1895 to 1898 and the cataloguer of Marsden J. Perry's Shakespeare Collection from 1901 to 1907. William Henry Frost joined the New York Tribune in 1887 as a reporter and drama critic and was the author of four books for children. ...more information Hamilton (Mary) Letters The Mary Hamilton letters contain fourteen letters to or about Mary Hamilton, covering a period of two decades, from 1905 to 1926. Within this group are letters from George Bernard Shaw, Harley Granville-Barker, J.E. Vedrenne, John Galsworthy, Algernon Blackwood, Lena Ashwell, and David Belasco. The seven letters from G.B. Shaw provide great insight into Shaw�s own philosophies and the workings of early 20th century American and British theatre. Associated with the November 2, 1908 letter from G.B. Shaw is a photograph of him with his signature on the back. Letters from the others also offer much information about how theatres were managed and directed, actresses were chosen and playwrights collaborated. ...more information Howard (Jean E.) Papers of Jean E. Howard, Columbia University scholar of early modern literature, the history of drama, and former chair of the Pembroke Center Associates Council. Papers include correspondence, drafts, notes, and research material relating to Howard's education, scholarly writings, and publications. ...more information Jennings (Hubert) The Hubert Jennings papers is an extensive collection of materials created or collected by Jennings in the course of his research on the Portuguese poet Fernando Pessoa focused particularly on the time Pessoa lived in Durban, South Africa. Jennings published a book called Os Dois Exílios: Fernando Pessoa na Africa do Sul (1984) and an English version called Fernando Pessoa in Durban (1986). The collection includes drafts of manuscripts, translations and transcriptions of Pessoa's poetry, correspondence with members of the Pessoa family and with other scholars. The collection also includes Jennings own poetry, stories and essays in draft and published form and a 5 volume memoir about his life that he called the “Cracked Record.” ...more information Kahn (Coppelia) Papers of Coppelia Kahn, Professor Emerita of English at Brown University and scholar of Shakespeare, Early Modern English literature, and feminist literary theory. Papers consist of administrative files, conference materials, teaching materials, and draft writings dating from 1971 to 2019. ...more information Kamuf (Peggy) Papers of Peggy Kamuf (b. 1947), Marion Frances Chevalier Professor in the Department of French and Italian at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles. The collection documents Kamuf's professional career and scholarship in comparative literature and literary theory. Items include drafts of published articles, lectures, and books such as The Division of Literature, or the University in Deconstruction (1997), Book of Addresses (2009), and To Follow: The Wake of Jacques Derrida (2010). Kamuf is not only a leading translator of Helène Cixous, Jean-Luc Nancy, and Derrida’s works, but she also studies, writes, and lectures about Rousseau, Woolf, Baudelaire, and Stendhal. ...more information Kimball 2,200 volumes of finely bound 18th and 19th century English literature assembled by Walter H. Kimball, Class of 1894, arrived from his estate in 1923. The collection includes many fine complete author sets and represents a typical turn-of-the-century scholarly gentleman's library. ...more information Koopman (Henry Lyman) Harry Lyman Koopman (1860-1937 ) was librarian from 1893 to 1930. In honor of Koopman at his retirement, Philip D. Sherman, class of 1902, who had been his student, presented his collection of literature, book arts, and the history of the book to the Library. "This collection contains over 5,000 first editions and rare books, manuscripts and association items, plus prints, drawings, and broadsides. It is a rich source for the study of English literature and the growth of fine printing from the works of Caxton and Chaucer in the 15th century to William Morris and William Butler Yeats in the 19th and 20th centuries." The Koopman Collection is notable for its prose fiction by Cooper, Irving, Holmes, and Melville, and for the collection of the works of Thackeray and Dickens issued in parts. Intended as a laboratory collection for the study of the art and history of the book, it includes the production of many late 19th century private presses, books issued in parts, and literary relics. Prints, Photographs, Museum objects, Specimen leaves listed in Koopman Accession book (in Archives). ...more information Lamont (Hammond) In 1911, the personal library of the late Hammond Lamont, Professor of Rhetoric from 1895 to 1900, was donated to the University as a memorial from his students in the Classes of 1899 and 1900.The principal focus of the collection is 18th and 19th century English literature with an emphasis on prose. These 2,700 volumes of 17th-18th century English literature included many works by Daniel DeFoe and William Prynne, including the latter's Histrio-Mastix (London, 1633).Includes many novels published between 1760-1840, particularly those by women writers, and over 100 17th and 18th century tracts by Jeremy Collier and William Prynne, among others, exhorting against the pernicious moral influence of the stage. This collection also includes holdings of "triple-decker" subscription and popular fiction of the late 18th and early 19th centuries, including a fine selection of gothic novels. ...more information Laughlin (James) Bequest of James Laughlin, poet and publisher of New Directions Press, and the gifts of his widow. It is composed of approximately 5,000 volumes from his personal library, and focuses on editions of William Carlos Williams, Ezra Pound, Gertrude Stein, Thomas Merton, and other major 20th century literary figures. At Mr. Laughlin's invitation, Library staff specifically selected authors and titles from his extensive collection for the express purpose of adding complementary prose titles to the Harris Collection's holdings of 20th century poetry and plays. Uncataloged. Lists available ...more information Linton (William James) The William James Linton Papers of Brown University contains material reflecting the three major spheres of activity--literary, artistic, and political--to which Linton chiefly devoted himself during the course of his long life. The literary manuscripts, correspondence to and from Linton, sketchbooks, drawings, and photographs, which comprise the chief part of this collection, are materials which will serve the researcher in good stead in attempting to understand Linton's various achievements. When considered in conjunction with the large holdings of printed Linton materials in various collections elsewhere within the Brown University Library, the papers comprising the Linton Papers described here take on added significance, insofar as they serve well to complement those printed holdings. Special interest may attach to some of the literary manuscripts in this collection, "Love's Diary", "Mr. Joseph", and "Blue-Beard", which are as yet unpublished. The researcher may also be especially interested in the correspondence involving noteworthy personalities, such as Winslow Homer, Christina Rossetti, Algernon Charles Swinburne, et al. ...more information Marks (Elaine) Elaine Marks, an eminent scholar of women's studies, French literature, and Jewish studies, was born in New York City in 1930. Marks attended the University of Pennsylvania and New York University, where she received a doctorate in 1958. She taught at the University of Wisconsin-Madison for twenty-two years, where she was the Germaine Bree Professor of French and Women's Studies. Books by Elaine Marks include Colette (Rutgers University Press, 1960), Simone de Beauvoir: Encounters with Death (Rutgers University Press, 1973), Homosexualities and French Literature: Cultural Contexts, Critical Texts, co-edited with George Stambolian (Cornell University Press, 1979), New French Feminism (University of Massachusetts Press, 1980), co-edited with Isabelle de Courtivron, and Marrano as Metaphor: The Jewish Presence in French Writing (Columbia University Press, 1996). Elaine Marks retired from the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 2000. She died in Dallas in October 2001. The Elaine Marks Papers consist of correspondence, photographs, research and teaching materials, and ephemera from the period 1949-2001. The collection includes manuscripts, course syllabi, promotional materials, and correspondence related to Elaine Marks' professorial work in the fields of French literature and Women's Studies. The collection also includes extensive materials from Marks' work with the Modern Language Association. ...more information Migueis (Jose Rodrigues) The Jose Rodrigues Migueis Archives contain the personal papers and selected volumes from the private library of the late Portuguese writer, donated by his widow. The collection includes drafts and typescripts of his writings, personal and professional correspondence, notebooks, postcards, diplomas, calendars, diaries, photographs, legal and medical documents, drawings, newspaper clippings, book reviews, and monographs. Migueis' correspondence includes letters to Camara Reys, Raul Proena, Jaime Cortes, Mario de Castro, Antonio Sergio, Manuel Mendes, Mario Dionsio, Manuel Rodrigues Lapa, David Mour Ferreira, Jacinto Baptista, Mario Neves, Jose Gomes Ferreira, Jose Cardoso Pires, Natalia Correira, Raul Hestnes Ferreira, Jorge de Sena, John Austin Kerr, Aquilino Ribeiro, and Jose Saramago among others. A finding aid and a microfilm copy of the collection are available to researchers. Restrictions on access and reproduction apply. ...more information Muller (Otto) Otto Muller was a German political author and journalist, who produced over 25 books in his lifetime. He is best known for his novel Charlotte Ackermann, which was later made into a play. This collection includes manuscripts, reviews, correspondence, artwork, professional and personal documents, and articles from journals and newspapers both by and about Muller. ...more information Newman (Karen) This collection contains the personal and professional papers of Karen Newman, scholar of Shakespeare, the Renaissance, and early modern culture,and Professor of Humanities and Professor of Comparative Literature and English at Brown University. Materials date from 1966 to 2018, and documents Newman's academic career and writings through correspondence, writing drafts, syllabi and lecture notes, and administrative files. ...more information Orkney Islands A collection of more than 150 volumes on the history, culture, archaeology, and literature of the Orkney Islands (Scotland), compiled and donated to the Brown University Library by W. Easton Louttit, jr. A title list may be viewed by doing an "author" search for "Orkney Collection" in JOSIAH. ...more information Schor (Naomi) The Naomi Schor papers span the years from 1950-2002 and consist of personal and professional correspondence, literary manuscripts, research and teaching materials, and materials from her professional activities. The collection documents Schor's career as one of the foremost scholars of French literature and critical theory and a pioneer feminist theorist of her generation. ...more information Shaw (George Bernard) In 1991 the Brown University Library acquired a collection of George Bernard Shaw material formed by Sidney P. Albert, professor emeritus of philosophy at California State University-Los Angeles. The collection is rich in manuscript material, including autograph and typed letters, post cards, notes, inscriptions and signed photographs as well as costume designs and a fragment of music in Shaw's hand. There are more than 2,000 books by and about Shaw and a strong collection of ephemera - pamphlets, "rough proof" rehearsal copies of plays, programs, press clippings, film stills, posters, publicity photographs, recordings, photographs of Shaw's 1933 visit to Hollywood, and publications of Shaw societies in London, New York, Los Angeles and Tokyo. More than 200 periodicals containing pieces by or about Shaw round out the collection. The Brown University Library also holds the correspondence between Shaw and his American publisher, Dodd, Mead & Company. ...more information Starred Book Hay Star is the general rare book collection of the Brown University Library, covering a wide range of topics. The Hay Star collection is particularly strong for 18th and 19th century materials, as well as for 20th century ephemera, and includes occasional transfers from the general collections. Travel literature and historical narratives are particular strengths. Researchers should note that many "named" collections of printed books are subsumed in Hay Star, including the following: H. P. Lovecraft collection Damon Collection of Fantasy and Imaginative Literature Ames Collection of Illustrated Books Brown-Ives Shakespeare Collection Dated Books Egyptology Collection Author collections of works by Grotius, Machiavelli, Wells and Orwell Kirk Collection on Alcoholism and Alcoholics Anonymous Pillar Collection of Children's Literature Schirmer Collection on Anti-Imperialism Swan Antarctica Collection ...more information Wandering Jew The gift of W. Easton Louttit, Jr., Class of 1925, this collection includes plays, poems, novels, and stories, and prints, as well as critical, philosophical, and scholarly studies of the archetypical story of men shut out from the human community and doomed to wander eternally. Possibly the finest accumulation of books on this theme to be found outside the Bibliotheque Nationale. It contains over 1,500 volumes featuring works by Goethe, Schiller, Shelley, Feuchtwanger, Edwin Arlington Robinson and especially Eugene Sue. ...more information Wells (H.G.) Collection of ca. 565 books and pamphlets by and about H.G. Wells, purchased from antiquarian bookdealer Glenn Finley in 1988. Finley amassed the collection in order to gain firsthand experience with comparative bibliography. The prospectus included with the collection was created by Finley as a preliminary annotated bibliography. The prospectus is divided into: books and pamphlets by Wells (405 items), collected letters (10 items), parodies (4 items), collected editions (1 item), periodical appearances (9 items), ephemera (4 items), biography & criticism (57 items), bibliography (13 items), and later editions and reprints (62 items). The collection is strong in British colonial editions and in unrecorded editions, issues and variants, and includes first and early editions of virtually all of Wells's work. Gifts and purchases continue to augment the original collection. List available. ...more information Yoken (Mel) Personal collection of Mel B. Yoken assembled by the Brown University alumnus over a period of forty years. Receipt of the collection by the Brown University Library began in 1999 and is still in progress. It consists primarily of 20th century pieces of correspondence and literary works by American, British, French and Quebecois authors, artists and public figures. Numerous letters written by significant figures of the 18th and 19th century enhance the historical, literary and political interest of the collection. Notes, typescripts, photographs and personal papers complement the archive, as well as the many inscriptions, annotations and signatures in the book collection. ...more information Zola (Emile) and Henry Ceard Chiefly correspondence. Zola writes about contemporary writers and journalists, literary criticism, the stage, censorship, politics, and personal affairs, including his own novels and reviews. Seventy-eight letters (1879-1889) are to Henry Ceard. Other correspondents include: Paul Adam, Jean Aicard, Georges Charpentier, Francois Coppee, Alphonse Daudet, Theodore Duret, Edmond de Goncourt, Francois Hebrard, Leon Hennique, Joris Karl Huysmans, Wilhelm Lilienthal, Georges Ricouard, Paul Robiquet, Jules Simon, Edouard Toulouse, Louis Ullbach, Ernest Vizetelly, Raoul Vost, and Ernst Ziegler. ...more information Image Source: William Shakespeare. Comedies, Histories, & Tragedies. London: Isaac Jaggard and Ed. Blount, 1623. The First Folio. Rare Books Collection, John Hay Library. Return to Collections A to Z Index Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet