Skip To Content University Libraries Library Instruction The Studio The Studio The Studio Equipment and Spaces Tutorials Reserve a Studio Space Contact Us The Studio provides specialized services and tools for creating and editing graphics, video, audio, and multimedia projects. Our goal is to provide the Texas A&M University community with multimedia tools, expert assistance, and educational programming to support the creation of media-enriched instructional projects. Reserve a Studio Space Hours Equipment and Spaces One Button Studio The One Button Studio is a simplified video recording solution that can be used without any previous video production experience. The design of the studio allows you to create high-quality and polished video projects without having to know anything about lights and cameras. You only need to bring your flash drive and push a single button. Professional Video, Audio and Lighting. Multi-colored backdrops. Use the One Button equipment for a user-friendly was to create a video. All you need is a USB that is formatted in exFAT or FAT 32. Use your own video camera and DSLR to customize your shots with lights, and different backdrops. Lightboard The Lightboard is a glass chalkboard pumped full of light. It's for recording video lecture topics. You face toward your viewers, and your writing glows in front of you. The Lightboard can be used with the One Button Studio equipment to create short videos. Patrons must reserve the One Button Studio and request the Lighboard. Whisper Rooms 2 rooms within sound reduction spaces that significantly reduces ambient and acoustical noise and can be used for a variety of audio recording purposes including podcasts and class recordings. 27" iMac 2 Rode Podcaster Microphones Software: Audacity, GarageBand, Adobe Audition, Camtasia Media Lab Our digital Media Lab offers access to specialized software and equipment to help you develop multimedia presentations, projects and portfolios. There are additional single and small group editing spaces. 32GB RAM and 3TB of storage. Software: Adobe Creative Cloud Suites, Final Cut Pro, iMovie, Camtasia Contact Us Bob Perez IT Consultant for Media Technologies Email Bob Babette Perkins IT Consultant for Learning and Outreach Email Babette Stephanie Graves Director of Learning and Outreach Email Stephanie Support the Libraries AskUs anything at anytime. Chat with Us Call Us Text Us @ 979-256-1091 Email Us About the Libraries Quick Phone & Mailing List Directory | Find my Librarian Employment Diversity Matters Site Map | Site Search Follow Us Facebook Twitter You Tube Instagram