My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) About Our Collections About Our Collections As a foundation for supporting research and teaching, Columbia's collections are central to the University's intellectual distinction and highest ambitions. We build, shape, sustain, and make discoverable collections that transcend traditional boundaries of format and domain, offer enduring research value, and support the intellectual curiosity of Columbia faculty and students. General Collections Our general collections support Columbia’s curricular and research programs and include an impressive variety and wealth of material. Search our collections Distinctive Collections & Archives Our unique and rare holdings contain some of the world’s most remarkable and prominent collections of recorded knowledge, from cuneiform tablets to early printed books and born-digital archives. While critically and strategically important to Columbia’s teaching and research strengths, the constituency for our special collections extends beyond campus to a global community of scholars. Our distinctive collections and archives are primarily held by: Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Global Studies Division Rare Book & Manuscript Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Oral History Archive Columbia University Archives Center for Human Rights Documentation & Research Web Archives Digital Collections We work to preserve our collections in the face of format degradation and digital impermanence and are committed to the widest possible global access to our collections. For many of our special collections and archives, we offer public access to digital reproductions of photographs, posters, drawings, objects, ephemera, and manuscripts. In support of research and teaching, we also offer Digitization & Copying Services for select reproduction of items in our collection. View Digital Collections E-Resources A significant portion of our collection is made up of digital resources such as databases, e-books, geospatial data, digital images, e-journals, music, and more. Go to E-Resources Collection Development We are dedicated to building and stewarding collections that have the greatest impact on research, teaching, and learning at Columbia. Our collection choices and long-term stewardship plans are made with regard to the advancement of the mission and goals of Columbia University. Our collections are dynamic, responsive, and purposefully developed to realize the value of collections that have defined our strengths in the past as well as resources that have been traditionally overlooked. Collections are being shaped and continually enriched in ways that advance access to heritage materials representing varied contours of knowledge and diversity of content. Go to Collection Development Policies & Strategies Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Archival Collections Portal Digital Collections & Online Exhibitions Distinctive Collections E-Resources Oral History Portal Web Archives at Columbia Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian