Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box » Libraries Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Want to search for books, journals, and articles instead? Exit Search Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving My Account Make a Gift Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving MY ACCOUNT OSULP Leadership Delpha and Donald Campbell Dean of Libraries The Delpha and Donald Campbell Dean of Libraries serves as the senior leader and advocate for the OSU Libraries and Press (OSULP). They provide leadership and vision for the Valley and Guin Libraries, and for the OSU Press. Reporting to the Senior Vice Provost for Academic Affairs, and sitting on the Provost’s Council of Deans, the Dean of the Libraries builds relationships with OSU’s academic colleges, administrative units, and student organizations, building a culture of accountability and collaboration that keeps the libraries at the physical and intellectual heart of OSU. The Dean is responsible for all operational areas and functions, including management of faculty, staff, budgets and facilities; development and curation of collections, and coordination and delivery of services. They provide leadership and partnership to the Library Advisory Council, and work closely with the OSU Foundation to support fundraising efforts. Anne-Marie Deitering is currently serving as the Delpha and Donald Campbell Dean of Libraries. Associate Dean(s) Associate Deans at OSULP work closely and collaboratively with the Dean on all aspects of library management and administration. In particular, they work with the Dean and with the Library Administration, Management and Planning group (LAMP) to develop and manage the budget, coordinate cross-departmental initaitives, and advance strategic goals. They work within the Library Administration department to improve communication, transparency and efficiency across the libraries and Press. They also provide direct leadership, vision and supervision for multiple library units. They work to create a healthy and sustainable work environment for library workers, fostering communication between library units and engaging in reflective and transparent decision making. The Associate Deans use their particular expertise to serve as the libraries’ point person for key issues such as open access, sustainable scholarly communication, and student success. Kerri Goergen-Doll is currently serving as Interim Associate University Librarian. LAMP The Library Administration, Management and Planning group advances the mission, vision and values of OSULP. LAMP meets weekly, bringing together library department heads and directors, library administrators, and representatives from the Library Faculty Association (LFA) and Classified Staff Association (CSA) to discuss and act on broad organizational issues. This group is committed to building a culture of collaboration, accountability, stewardship and resourcefulness within OSULP. LAMP is a decision-making body, voting on matters related to organizational health, budget, projects, planning and services. LAMP also serves as an advisory group for the Dean of Libraries, and as a space for library administrators to engage in professional development and mentoring activities. LAMP members include elected representatives from the LFA and CSA, who serve as non-voting members. They are joined by department heads and directors from the Valley and Guin libraries, the Dean of Libraries and Assistant Dean(s). The Executive Assistant to the Dean provides administrative support, and contributes to discussions. Agendas and minutes are shared across the organization and archived on the library wiki. In instances where confidential matters are discussed, an executive session for voting members is called. Classified Staff Association (CSA) The CSA was formed in 2018 to create a space for classified staff members at OSULP to come together and discuss issues important to their professional growth and development. The CSA is also intended to create a structure for library classified staff workers to directly participate in LAMP discussions and influence LAMP decisions. The CSA administers the Staff Professional Development Fund, to provide support for travel and professional education for classified staff members beyond that which OSULP provides to all staff. Membership is open to all OSULP classified staff workers. Elected leaders include a Chair, Chair-elect, Secretary and Treasurer. Elected leaders serve one-year terms. The CSA Chair attends LAMP meetings as a non-voting member. The 2022 CSA chair is Ian Scofield. Library Faculty Association (LFA) The Library Faculty Association was formed in 1998 to provide a forum for library faculty to discuss issues in library and information science and higher education, to provide support for library faculty research and publishing, and to provide a structure for library faculty to advocate for and publish positions on library and campus issues. LFA also ensures that library faculty priorities on key aspects of library operations -- including policy creation, budgets and compensation, and planning -- are considered in library decision- and policy-making processes. Membership in LFA is open to all library faculty including: tenure-track faculty, professional faculty, part-time faculty, instructors and faculty research assistants. Elected leadership positions include the President and Past President. In addition, LFA is served by a variety of volunteer coordinators: Seminar Series Coordinator; Mentoring Program Coordinator; Research and Writing Group Coordinator; and Communications Coordinator. The 2021-2022 LFA President is Jane Nichols. The OSULP Promotion and Tenure Committee works closely with the LFA. Space is provided in every LFA meeting for the P&T committee chair to lead discussions on issues related to promotion and tenure. Membership on the OSULP P&T committee consists of all academic faculty in the library, including assistant/ associate/ full professors; faculty research assistants and instructors. Exceptions include: the Dean and Associate Deans, faculty under review, and the faculty serving on the Senior Review Panel. The Senior Review panel is chaired by the immediate past Chair of the P&T committee and is responsible for conducting a separate, process-focused review for each candidate. The 2021-2022 P&T Committee chair is Kelly McElroy. Contact Info 121 The Valley Library Corvallis OR 97331–4501 541-737-3331 Contact Us Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Flickr Twitter Instagram In The Valley Library Oregon State University Press Special Collections and Archives Research Center Undergrad Research & Writing Studio Graduate Student Commons Tutoring Services Student Multimedia Studio Northwest Art Collection Child Care Digital Projects Oregon Explorer Oregon Digital ScholarsArchive@OSU Digital Publishing Initiatives Atlas of the Pacific Northwest Branches Marilyn Potts Guin Library Cascades Campus Library McDowell Library of Vet Medicine Federal Depository Library Program Make a Gift