Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. McFarlin Home HOURS ASK US MY LIBRARY ACCOUNT Search the library website Go! ABOUT Events Fines & Fees History of McFarlin Library Hours Maps & Directions Message from the Dean Mission Staff Directory Welcome to the Library Video FIND MATERIALS ★ Search Summon ★ A-Z Database List Classic Catalog Course Reserves List Journal List Research Guides Textbook Reserves List GET HELP Ask a Librarian / Contact Us FAQ Quick Tips Videos Schedule a Virtual Appointment INFORMATION FOR Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate Students International Students Remote Learners Undergraduate Students Visitors LIBRARY SPACES Computer Lab & IT Help Desk Faculty Resource Center Group Study Rooms iClassrooms Writing Center SERVICES Book & Material Pickup Form Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Suggest a Purchase SPECIAL COLLECTIONS STUDENT JOBS COVID-19 GUIDE MORE LIBRARIES HCAR (Gilcrease Museum) MLIC (Law Library) McFarlin Library LibGuides Summon - TU's Discovery Tool Home Enter Search Words Search Summon - TU's Discovery Tool: Home Using Summon to find articles, books and more! Librarian Elizabeth Szkirpan She/Her Email Me What is Summon? Summon is an easy to use, fast library search engine that helps you discover information from scholarly journals, books and other items in the collections of the University of Tulsa Libraries, which includes McFarlin Library, McFarlin Special Collections, the Mabee Legal Information Center, the Helmerich Center for American Research at Gilcrease Museum, and University School. Search results link to online articles, books, the print holdings of the library, and more! University of Tulsa Databases Ask A Librarian! What Does Summon Search? Search results include but are not limited to: Online and print journals Magazine and newspaper articles Print and online books U.S. Government Documents Citations Institutional archive materials Special Collection and other collection materials Conference proceedings Reports Theses and Dissertations Content changes regularly through University collection development and refinement. Summon searches most of the University of Tulsa resources, but not all. Use our database list to perform specialized searches, or contact our Ask A Librarian service if you do not find what you are looking for in Summon. Those looking for the library's Classic Catalog can still search it here. Start Using Summon Use the "Search Summon" box on the University of Tulsa Libraries landing page to begin your search. Search TU Libraries…and Beyond! Go! Limit to: Books/e-Books Articles Only show items from the library catalog Advanced Search Learn More About Summon Here Type a query into the above box to begin your search. You can limit your search to Books/e-Books, Articles, or only show items from the library catalog to refine your initial search. Alternatively, you can proceed with your search without using a limiter. Once you hit the "Go!" button, you can then refine your search using the "Refine by" features on the left-hand side of the Summon search results page. Refine options include these options, among others: Full Text Online Scholarly and Peer-Review Content Type Subject Terms Location For a more specific search (by author or publication title for example), use the Advanced Search option near the search box on your results page. Need more help? TU Libraries has a Quick Tips Summon Video Tutorial. Summon Feedback Have feedback over Summon or are you encountering an error using Summon? Complete our Summon feedback form. Last Updated: Aug 16, 2021 2:24 PM URL: https://libraries.utulsa.edu/Summon Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. About Events Fines & Fees History of McFarlin Library Hours Maps & Directions Message from the Dean Mission Staff Directory Welcome to the Library Video Find Materials ★ Search Summon ★ A-Z Database List Classic Catalog Course Reserves List Journal List Research Guides Textbook Reserves List Get Help Ask a Librarian / Contact Us FAQ Quick Tips Videos Schedule a Virtual Appointment Information For: Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate Students International Students Remote Learners Undergraduate Students Visitors Library Spaces Computer Lab & IT Help Desk Faculty Resource Center Group Study Rooms iClassrooms Special Collections Writing Center More Libraries HCAR (Gilcrease Museum) MLIC (Law Library) Services Book & Material Pickup Form Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Suggest a Purchase Site Policies Digital Accessibility Policy The University of Tulsa · McFarlin Library · 2933 East 6th Street · Tulsa, OK 74104-3123 · (918) 631-2871 · Facebook Library Staff Login (Libguides) · Print this page