Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU HDS Home Email My.HDS HOLLIS ATLA Religion Database Search Google main search box code About Contact the Library Directions Hours Find Your Way Book a Group Study Room Library News Mission and History Research Tools Key Databases Essential Tools and Services M.Div. Senior Paper FAQ Citation Tools Research Guides How to Find Archives Help & Services Collections Religion Collections at Harvard Collection Strengths Special Collections Unitarian Universalist Resources Digital Collections Collections Beyond Harvard Ask Us HOME / Help & Services Use the Library Borrow, Renew, Request Borrow Renew Request Borrow Circulating items Regular loan items have semester loan periods for Harvard faculty, students and staff. All regular loan items are subject to recall. Regular loan items do not include reserve materials, multimedia items,or equipment. More info including fines Information specifically for faculty, BTI affiliates, alumni, and visitors Noncirculating items that must be used in the library Reference collection Bound periodicals Microform and microfiche Special Collections materials Faculty books on display Renew Regular loan items: renew online in HOLLIS by logging into My Account, or call the circulation desk at 617.495.5788. Request Articles or book chapters from Harvard Library collections, scanned and delivered electronically within 1-4 business days (Scan and Deliver) Request via HOLLIS record More info Books delivered from other Harvard libraries within 1-4 business days Request via HOLLIS record More info Books delivered from Borrow Direct libraries within 4 business days (Borrow Direct) Search the Borrow Direct catalog and request items More info Books and articles delivered from other libraries within approximately 2 weeks; note that articles delivered electronically may arrive sooner (Interlibrary Loan) Submit an Interlibrary Loan request More info You may also recommend a book or other resource for purchase. Course Reserves Course reserve readings are listed on the Canvas course website as “Library Reserves”. Online readings are linked. If there is no link, bring the call number to the circulation desk on the first floor to borrow a copy. Reserve materials circulate for two hours. Please contact reserves@hds.harvard.edu with questions about course reserves. Placing material on reserve. Book a Group Study Room There are three group study rooms on the ground floor of the library. Please click here to book a group study room. Print, Scan, & Copy Print Scan Copy Print Library computers Computers for access to online Harvard Library resources, email, Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, and Excel are located on floors 1 and 2. Wireless network For information about connecting and printing on the wireless network, see Wireless Networking and Printing on the Harvard Divinity School website. Printing See Wireless Networking and Printing on the Harvard Divinity School website for instructions. Printing fees are paid through Crimson Cash. Scan Scanners Located on first and second floors. Free of charge Digital scans may be saved on a USB flash drive or sent as a digital file to your email account. Digital reader/scanner for microfilm Located on the first floor. Digital scans may be saved on a USB flash drive or sent as a digital file to your email account or cloud storage drive. Access to the collections and readers is self-service and available whenever the library is open. Request assistance at the service desk on the first floor. Copy Printers can also be used for copying Color or black-and-white Located on floors 1 and 2 Fees payable through Crimson Cash. Color, single-sided: 15¢ per page Color, double-sided: 8¢ per side Black and white, single-sided: 5¢ per page Black and white, double-sided: 3¢ per side Accessibility The staff of Harvard Divinity School Library is committed to meeting the needs of disabled people who use our collections and services. Disabled students must first register with the Office of Student Life to receive accommodations at HDS. For more information, see Accessibility on the Harvard Divinity School website. We try to anticipate needs in the areas listed below, and will make reasonable accommodations for individual situations. If the information here does not address your specific situation, please contact Access Services to ensure that appropriate services can be arranged. Physical access Building access The library's entrance in Swartz Hall is accessible. Once inside the library, all floors are accessible by elevator. Stack access If you are unable to retrieve materials from a shelf, library staff at the Access Services desk will help. Before asking for books, please identify the call numbers of the items desired. Staff can verify for you whether any of these items are checked out. Parking Restrooms All restrooms in the library are accessible. Research assistance Photocopying and scanning Self-service photocopiers and scanners are available throughout the library. People who cannot operate them should take materials to the Access Services desk, and staff will make scans and copies at the self-service rate. Literature searches The library provides librarian-assisted searching of online resources that are not fully accessible to disabled people. Contact Research Services or call 617.496.2485 to make an appointment. Books and journals from other libraries Harvard Divinity School affiliates who cannot access materials at any library due to disability may contact Access Services for assistance. Before submitting requests, please identify the full bibliographic citation for each book or article. Assistive technology A closed-circuit television video magnifier (CCTV) is located on the first floor. This device magnifies printed text and other materials, as well as three-dimensional objects. A DVD/VHS viewer and earphones are available at the circulation desk on the first floor. A cassette and CD player is available through the research services or manuscript and archives staff (Monday-Thursday, 8:30 am-9 pm; Friday, 8:30 am-6 pm, except University holidays). Please call ahead for availability: 617.496.2485. For more general information, see Accessibility on the Harvard Divinity School website. Research Help Ask Us Search our FAQ, or submit a new question. Work with a librarian Connect with a subject expert at Harvard Divinity School Library to Locate information Develop a research strategy Find relevant sources on any topic Work on any research-related question, problem, or skill M.Div. Senior Papers Please visit our M.Div. Senior Paper FAQ. Dissertations At every stage of your project, research librarians are here to assist you. We will work with you to: Develop search strategies Build an exhaustive bibliography Manage and cite your sources Identify and learn to use relevant sources Obtain research materials worldwide Essential Tools and Services Read Essential Tools and Services for the top things every HDS student should know about the Harvard Library. Faculty Course reserves Curricular and research support Open access policy BTI Affiliates Visiting and borrowing privileges for faculty and students at Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium member schools. Alumni Access to online resources Research help Visiting and borrowing privileges Visitors Research help, access, and borrowing privileges for those without a Harvard affiliation, including local clergy. HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL LIBRARY 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 617.495.5788 my.hds | Harvard University | Harvard Library | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Trademark Notice | Reporting Copyright Infringements Copyright © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. HDS Library Styles Code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement