Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Lewis Science Library Lewis Science Library Skip to Main Content Section Menu Home Services Collections Research and Instruction Group Study Rooms Science Research Guides Makerspace Maps & GIS Fine Visualization Lab About the Library Staff Today's Hours 9:00am - 9:00pm For summer, holidays or recess hours, please consult the full schedule. Contact Us Lewis Library lewislib@princeton.edu (609) 258-6004 Lewis Library Access During COVID Lewis Library is open for use by Princeton University students, faculty, and staff with an activated PUID. For everyone's health and safety, we ask all patrons to present their PUID upon entering the Library. The Library remains closed to the public and other users. A very small number of visitor requests will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. To learn more about Princeton University Library’s visitor policy please visit this page. Research consultations with librarians are  available to students, faculty and staff in-person, or by e-mail, phone or Zoom. Book Pick-Up Service will continue this fall. Faculty, students, and staff with active PUIDs may request books online and pick them up at on-campus Library locations. PU faculty, students, and staff may request in-house digitization of articles or chapters in print book collections.  Wearing face coverings is required for all patrons at all times, including faculty, students, and staff during Library classroom use. Social distancing is no longer required in Library spaces. For questions about visiting Lewis, please send a message to lewislib@princeton.edu. Quick Links Catalog ArticleExpress Interlibrary Loan Library Events Reserve a Group Study Room Featured Resources Web of Science (ISI) Scopus APA PsycInfo® SciFinder Web (Chemical Abstracts) MathSciNet Amenities Computers Electronic Classroom Group Study Room iPads Photocopier Printers (B&W) Scanner Study Carrels Wi-Fi Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top