Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Collections Early Modern Science Collection Landmark works in the history of science from the 16th and 17th centuries. A continuation of new experiments physico-mechanical, 1682, Robert Boyle. View Details. Houghton Library In 1543, the appearance of two books marked the start of the scientific revolution: Vesalius’s De humani corporis fabrica and Copernicus’s De Revolutionibus. In the former, Vesalius’s many groundbreaking anatomical findings are displayed with extraordinarily detailed woodcut engravings. In the latter, simpler diagrams help to communicate the revolutionary theory of heliocentrism. Houghton Library holds first editions of both works. Dialogo dei massimi sistemi, 1641, Galileo Galilei. View Details. Houghton Library De Revolutionibus marked the beginning of a remarkable century for astronomy. Tycho Brahe, Johannes Kepler, and Galileo Galilei published landmark works on optics, the laws of planetary motion, and the nature of stars and comets. Houghton’s collection includes first editions of the works of all three astronomers. Among them is 1632 copy of Galileo’s Dialogo dei massimi sistemi — a book suppressed by the Inquisition the following year — and Kepler’s Somnium, a description of a trip to the moon that is often called the first work of science fiction. While astronomers looked to the stars, microscopists used novel optical technologies to investigate other unknown territories. The pioneering work of Antonie van Leeuwenhoek, the first observer of single-celled organisms, is recorded in numerous 17th-century volumes in the collection. Robert Hooke’s hugely influential Micrographia (1665), of which Houghton holds two first-edition copies, features beautifully illustrated examinations of insect and plant tissues. In the 17th century, scholars took up questions of scientific method in a more systemic way than ever before. René Descartes’ Discours de la Methode (1637) and Francis Bacon’s Novum Organum Scientiarum (1620) (books whose early editions feature in the Houghton collection) attempted to identify methods of reasoning and experimenting sure to solidly ground human knowledge. Robert Boyle, the founder of modern chemistry, may have consulted these works in designing the experiments described in his hugely influential The Sceptical Chymist (1661). Houghton’s collection of Boyle’s work is outstanding: virtually all of his published work is present in early editions, and the library's first-edition copy of the Sceptical Chymist once belonged to John Locke. Works in the collection from the late 17th through the end of the 18th century reflect dramatic changes in the cultural reception of scientific thinking. The first scientific journals appeared, including the Journal des sçavans and Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society, both founded in 1665. Original copies of these and other, contemporaneous journals are housed in Houghton, along with volumes designed to make the discoveries of scientific revolution accessible to the general public. An example of one such book is Francesco Algarotti’s best-selling 1737 work Il Newtonianismo per le dame (Newtonianism for women), which helped to popularize the central theories of Newton’s Philosophiae naturalis principia mathematica, of which Houghton holds two first-edition 1687 copies. Accessing These Materials Houghton's history of science collections are cataloged in HOLLIS. Please contact the library if we can offer any assistance in finding materials. Contact Houghton Reference email: Email Phone number 617-495-2441 Related Collections Collection Early Science Collections Collection Early Science Collections Houghton Library’s extensive holdings in the early history of science represent over 2,000 years of scientific thought. Collection Modern History of Science Collections Collection Modern History of Science Collections This Houghton Library collection offers insight into the working lives of modern scientists. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.