Clemson University A-Z Index Phonebook MENUMENU Find & Borrow Find Books, Articles & More Databases Journals Course Reserves Research & Course Guides WorldCat Borrow Technology Interlibrary Loan PASCAL Delivers Scan and Deliver Off-Campus Delivery Service Explore - State Park Passes Borrowing Privileges Unique collections Gunnin Architecture Library Digital Collections Education Media Center & Digital Media Learning Lab Special Collections and Archives TigerPrints Help Finding Library Materials Borrowing Help Offsite Shelving Circulation Policies Library Fines and Fees Proxy Card Service Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Research & Teaching Research Support Research & Course Guides Citation Management Subject Librarians Undergraduate Research Award Teaching Support Course Instruction Workshops Tutorials Course Reserves Open Educational Resources (OER) Digital Scholarship & Publishing Data Services Digital Projects Support Publishing & Copyright Clemson University Press Help Getting Started with Research Proxy Card Service Purchase Request Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Study & Create Study Spaces Library Locations Learning Commons Creative Spaces Adobe Digital Studio Brown Digital Lab Cooper Makerspace Digital Media Learning Lab Geospatial Center Scholars’ Lab Amenities Starbucks - Cooper Library POD - Cooper Library Reflection Room Help Find Printers & Scanners Academic Success Center CCIT Support Center Michelin Career Center Writing Lab Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions About Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Locations & Parking Floor Maps Our Organization Welcome from the Dean News Staff Directory Policies Accessibility Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Library Residents Program Strategic Plan Organizational Chart Libraries Reorganization Overview Cooper 2.0: A Vision for the Future Employment Opportunities Clemson Libraries Advisory Committee Library Depot Giving Giving Home Honor with Books Fund Friends of the Libraries Help Contact Us Records Management Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Make a Suggestion R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU My Account Giving Help Clemson Libraries to host best-selling author Steve Berry Posted on May 18, 2022 International best-selling author Steve Berry will give a reading of his new novel, “The Omega Factor,” on Tuesday, June 14, at 7 p.m. at the AT&T Auditorium on the Clemson University International Center for Automotive Research campus in Greenville. Hosted by Clemson Libraries in partnership with Greenville bookstore Fiction Addiction, tickets to the event are $45 for the general public and include a hard-cover copy of the book and admission to a book signing following Berry’s talk. Tickets are available here, and proceeds from ticket sales will benefit Clemson Libraries. Clemson students, faculty and staff can reserve tickets for free using the code CLEMSONFAM at checkout. The free tickets do not include a copy of the book, but books will be available at the event for purchase. “We are excited to host Steve Berry and hope to be able to host more nationally known authors for similar events in the future,” said Clemson Libraries Dean Chris Cox. “Thank you to Fiction Addiction for collaborating with us to bring Mr. Berry to the Upstate.” Berry is the author of 20 novels, including “The Omega Factor,” which will be released on June 7. Berry is best known for his Cotton Malone novels, a series of historical thrillers featuring an ex-U.S. Justice Department agent turned antiquarian book dealer. Berry’s books have been translated in 41 languages selling more than 25,000,000 copies in 52 countries. Berry has been recognized with numerous awards, including the Royden B. Davis Distinguished Author Award, the Barnes & Noble Writers for Writers Award given by Poets & Writers, the Anne Frank Human Writes Award, and the Silver Bullet, bestowed by International Thriller Writers for his philanthropic work. He has been chosen as both the Florida and Georgia Writer of the Year. He’s also an emeritus member of the Smithsonian Libraries Advisory Board. A native of Georgia, Berry graduated from the Walter F. George School of Law at Mercer University and was a trial lawyer for 30 years. In 2009, he and his wife Elizabeth Berry founded History Matters, a foundation dedicated to historic preservation. Clemson University Libraries 116 Sigma Drive, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3027 Directory Employment Contact Us