Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Woodberry Poetry Room Creative Fellowship Inviting poets, writers, translators, artists, composers, and scholars to propose creative projects that would benefit from the resources of the Poetry Room. About The Fellowship guidelines Past Recipients About The Fellowship Each year, the Creative Fellowship program invites poets, writers, translators, artists, filmmakers, composers, and scholars of contemporary poetry to propose creative projects that would benefit from the resources available in the Woodberry Poetry Room. The Creative Fellow receives a stipend of $4,500, access to a range of Harvard Library special collections (including the Poetry Room), and in-depth research support from the WPR curatorial staff. Thanks to the generosity of the T. S. Eliot Foundation, we are pleased to announce that this year's Fellowship recipient(s) will also be offered the opportunity to work on their project at the T. S. Eliot House in Gloucester, Massachusetts. The one-week artistic residency may be scheduled with the Eliot House director within the calendar year of the Creative Fellowship: it does not need to coincide with your research visit to Harvard. The house is open for residencies from May 1st-October 31st, pending availability. WPR Creative Fellow Eileen Myles Stipend A single stipend of $4,500 is the comprehensive amount provided to both individuals and collaborative teams. It is hoped that this funding will help to support travel and lodging during the fellowship. There is no minimum stay requirement: a typical fellowship visit is between 4 days and two weeks. Return visits are also an option: each Fellow's Harvard ID is active for one year. Deadline The next deadline for application is February 15, 2022. Scheduling We ask that you consult with the WPR curatorial staff prior to your visit to learn about any Covid-related closures or constraints on access. When scheduling your research visit, we also encourage you to bear in mind that the Poetry Room is closed on weekends. We are happy to share a list of local bed-and-breakfasts and nearby lodging options with recipients. Lodging at the Eliot House can be coordinated separately with the Eliot House residency director: the house is typically open from May--late October. You may wish to time your stay to precede or follow your research at Harvard; some recent Fellows have also opted to commute from Gloucester to Cambridge during their research period (traveling time is 1 to 1.5 hours). Guidelines Tracie Morris premieres "The Impossible Man" Applicants for the WPR Creative Fellowship will be asked to provide: a project description a curriculum vitae a work sample one letter of reference no application fee is required The Creative Fellowship is open to US-based and international applicants. Applications to conduct a collaborative project with one or more artists are permitted. Collaborative teams should apply using a single form and by designating a single person as the primary contact for the application. Letters of reference for collaborative partnerships should address the collaboration as a whole. Applications are accepted via Submittable. The application period begins on December 1st. The next deadline is February 15, 2022. All applicants and recipients will be notified by May 15, 2022. The Creative Fellowship program at the Woodberry Poetry Room is generously funded by the Dr. Michael & Teresa Anagnostopoulos Fund. We also wish to express our profound thanks to the T. S. Eliot Foundation. Please contact us with any questions Christina Davis email: davis2@fas.harvard.edu Phone number (617) 495-2454 Past Recipients 2021-2022 WPR Creative Fellowship: Diana Khoi Nguyen & Jane Wong, "Radical Altars to Alter" WPR Creative Grant: Jonathan C. Creasy, "The Library of Voices" 2020-2021 WPR Creative Fellowship: Jared Stanley & Sameer Farooq, "A Lip Smack, Laughter, Rustles" WPR Creative Grant: Harmony Holiday, "Griot: Ghost" 2019-2020 WPR Creative Fellowship: Sawako Nakayasu, “Sounds of War and Not-War, 1941-1945” WPR Creative Grants: Tongo Eisen-Martin, Brian Teare, and Jasmine Dreame Wagner 2018-2019 WPR Creative Fellowship: Tracie Morris, “The Impossible Man” (a performance project based on the work of the 19th century Shakespearean actor Ira Aldridge) WPR Creative Grants: Tess Taylor, “Roads Not Taken: Pilgrimages with Poets & Poems” 2017-2018 WPR Creative Fellowship: Kate Colby, “Mist on the Mirror: Writing in Olson’s Breath”   WPR Creative Grants: Lillian Yvonne-Bertram, “No One Living Knows How Long,” and Christine Finn, “Time Tell: An Excavation into Seamus Heaney’s Sound Recordings” WPR Creative Grant recipient Christine Finn.  2016-2017 WPR Creative Fellowship: Erin Moure, “Resonance: A Modernism” WPR Creative Grant: Lindsay Turner, “Essays on Waiting”  2015-2016  WPR Creative Fellowship: Eileen Myles, “About Boston” WPR Creative Grant: Dan Beachy-Quick, “A Quiet Book” 2014-2015  WPR Creative Fellowship: Fanny Howe, “Be Again: Three Short Films” Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.