CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee General Information Introduction & Mission | Articles about The Burke Library Introduction & Mission The Burke Library Main Reading Room The Burke Library is one of the largest theological libraries in North America, with holdings of over 700,000 items, including extensive special collections. Throughout its long history, the Library has maintained its commitment to the needs of both teaching and research, serving not only the faculty, staff, and students of Union Theological Seminary and Columbia University, but also a wide spectrum of national and international scholars and researchers. The Library is named in honor of Walter Burke, a generous benefactor to the Library who served as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Seminary from 1976 to 1982. The mission of the Burke Library is to identify, acquire, organize, provide access to, interpret, and preserve for the future information in the field of theology and contextually related areas of study. Furthermore, the Library supports the specific instructional and research needs of Union Theological Seminary and Columbia University and provides resources for the scholarly community in theology and related areas of the humanities and social sciences. The Library reflects in its collections the pluralistic and ecumenical concerns of the Seminary while maintaining its role as a comprehensive resource within the limits of its collecting policies. In carrying out its mission, the Library cooperates with other institutions both regionally and nationwide. Articles About The Burke Library from the Union News Research in the McAlpin Collection on Letters from Prison University of Chicago scholar W. Clark Gilpin's research on the Burke Library's McAlpin Collection of British History and Theology A Great Awakening $9.8 million grant in 2001 for the renewal of the Burke Library Missionary Research Library Collection 1998 article,"From Idea to Special Library to Special Collection," by former Burke librarian. Back to top Sidebar The Burke Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact Union Theological Seminary 3041 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 851-5606 E-mail: burke@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Burke Library Links About Staff Directions Access & Circulation Related Links Health Advisory Regarding COVID-19 Burke Library Blog Burke Library Friends Union Theological Seminary CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.