My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) Libraries & Affiliates Lehman Social Sciences Library Directions to Lehman Social Sciences Library Directions to Lehman Social Sciences Library The Lehman Social Sciences Library is located in the School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA) Building, at the corner of Amsterdam Avenue and W. 118th St. From College Walk (the pedestrian boulevard corresponding to W. 116th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam Ave.), walk East along College Walk to Amsterdam. The building across Amsterdam on the NE corner is the Law School. Cross Amsterdam and turn North, walking up to W. 118th Street. At the corner of Amsterdam and W. 118th Street is the location of the SIPA building. Turn East again, and the entrance to the SIPA building is on the right, in the middle of the block. Note: The entrance to this building is secured on evenings, weekends, intersessions, and holidays. You will need a Columbia I.D. to show a guard or to use in a swipecard to enter the building at these times. Entry to the libraries is secured at all times. Those without a Columbia I.D. should first visit the Library Information Office (LIO) 201 Butler Library for information on library privileges for non-affiliates. You enter the SIPA building on the fourth floor. Pass through the elevator lobby, and you will see stairs on either side going down. The entrance to Lehman is there, on the 3rd floor. Lehman Social Sciences Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » 300 International Affairs 420 W. 118th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-3794 E-mail: lehman@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » | Directions » Research Guides Anthropology Research Guide Bloomberg Help Guide International Affairs Research Guide Political Science Research Guide Reference & Citation Management Sociology Research Guide Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian