Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Firestone Library Firestone Library Today's Hours 9:00am - 9:00pm For summer, holidays or recess hours, please consult the full schedule. Contact Us Firestone Library refdesk@princeton.edu (609) 258-4820 Since its founding, the library at Princeton has grown from a collection of 474 volumes in one room of Nassau Hall to more than 11 million holdings in approximately 12 buildings throughout the campus. Considered one of the largest open-stack libraries in existence, the Harvey S. Firestone Memorial Library functions as the main library on campus and assumes primary responsibility for the humanities and social sciences. Home to Special Collections, it also houses treasures such as the autographed manuscript of F. Scott Fitzgerald's "The Great Gatsby" and the papers of Nobel laureates Toni Morrison and Mario Vargas Llosa. In the Firestone Library lobby and open to the public, the Ellen and Leonard Milberg Gallery highlights the library's collections while also drawing upon complementary collections from campus partners and institutions. Please note: at this time, the Ellen and Leonard Milberg Gallery is closed. For digital exhibitions, visit the Digital Princeton University Library website. Access to most areas of Firestone requires a valid Princeton University campus identification card with photograph. Researchers and scholars not affiliated with the University are welcome to use many Firestone collections under certain conditions, although non-affiliated researchers may be subject to a fee for access or borrowing privileges. All visitors are advised to consult with the Access Office at (609) 258-5737 for details prior to arrival. Please note: at this time, access to Firestone Library is limited only to University students, faculty, and staff. Specialized services within Firestone include: Scholarly Collections and Research Services Circulation Services Course Reserve Services Borrow Direct and Interlibrary Loan Services Data and Statistical Services Government Documents (Depository Access) Microforms Service Reading and Graduate Study Rooms Video Services Please note: at this time, Special Collections is not available. Check back for updates. Use of collections in Special Collections by visiting researchers requires registration, including the presentation of photo identification (e.g., a driver's license). Appointments are not necessary, with the exception of the Scheide and Cotsen Children's Libraries. Special Collections Cotsen Children's Library Scheide Library Consult Firestone Floor Plans and Call Number Information to locate collections and services in Firestone Library. Firestone History The Harvey S. Firestone Memorial Library opened in 1948 as the first large American university library constructed after World War II. Roughly 1.5 million volumes were moved during the summer of 1948 from Pyne and Chancellor Green Halls, which until then had served as the University's main library. The library building was expanded in 1971 and again in 1988 and currently has more than 70 miles (110 km) of bookshelves, making Firestone one of the largest open-stack libraries in existence. Though not the largest university library in the world, the library has more books per enrolled student than that of any other university in the United States. Firestone Floor Plans 3 Floor 2 Floor 1 Floor A Floor B Floor C Floor Call number information Group Study Rooms Book a group study room. If you have questions, please email refdesk@princeton.edu. Tiger Tea Room The Tiger Tea Room at Firestone Library is open M–F, 11:30a–6:30p. For more information, visit the Campus Dining website. Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top