Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Harvard Library Bulletin Highlighting the research potential of Harvard Library's collections through peer-reviewed scholarly articles. Overview Harvard Library Bulletin publishes peer-reviewed scholarly articles that reflect the research potential of Harvard Library collections, shorter features that showcase wide-ranging activities from across the library, and announcements of new collections and Library milestones. Established in 1947, HLB has been fully online and open access since 2020. Visit HLB Online Publication of HLB is made possible by a bequest from George L. Lincoln, Class of 1895, and by a fund established in memory of William A. Jackson, the first librarian of Houghton Library. All our new content is available on our website. Subscriptions HLB is online and open access. Production of print issues and the associated subscription program have ceased. Former subscribers may direct questions to: Managing Editor, Harvard Library Bulletin Houghton Library Harvard University Cambridge, MA 02138 Email HLB Submissions Submissions should be sent electronically through HLB’s submission page. Editorial correspondence may be directed to harvardlibrarybulletin@harvard.edu. Accessing the Print Archive Contents of the entire print archive (Volume 1, no. 1 – Volume 28, no. 3, 1947–2017) can be accessed as individual articles through DASH, Harvard’s online digital repository. Volume 1, no. 1 – Volume 24, no. 3 (1947–2013) are also available online as full issues. Table of Contents: 1990 through 2017 Fall 2017, Volume 28, Number 3 A Survey of the Poetry Collection in Manuscript of the Noble Family of Huntingdon by Mary Ann O’Donnell. Summer 2017, Volume 28, Number 2 The Medingen Manuscripts at Harvard: Houghton Library’s MS Lat 395 and MS Lat 440 by Henrike Lähnemann, Laura Godfrey, Joseph Leake, Gennifer Dorgan, and Micah James Goodrich John Opie’s Portraits of Dr. Johnson by Greg Clingham Miscellaneous Minor Manuscripts: Reconstructing a Broken Volume of Jean de Vignay’s Miroir historial by Hannah Weaver Spring 2017, Volume 28, Number 1 The Qianlong Emperor's Copperplate Engravings by Marcia Reed Henry David Thoreau at 200: A Bicentenary Exhibition at Houghton Library curated by Ronald A. Bosco Timothy Leary’s Legacy and the Rebirth of Psychedelic Research by Don Lattin Fall 2016, Volume 27, Number 3 Don Quixote, A Comedy by James Wadham Whitchurch, with edition, introduction and notes by Emilio Martínez Mata and Clark Colahan The Ward Dance Manuscript: A New Source for Seventeenth-Century English Country Dance by Aaron Macks 'If it were in my power to help you’: Victorian Literary Patronage in Four Unpublished Thomas Carlyle Letters by Tim Sommer Spring-Summer 2016, Volume 27, Numbers 1-2 Picturing Emerson: An Iconography by Joel Myerson and Leslie Perrin Wilson Fall 2015, Volume 26, Number 3 Preserving Collective Memory: Nineteenth-Century Harvard Class Books and Albums Introduction by Megan Sniffin-Marinoff “We Carry With Us Precious Memorials”: Early Harvard Class Photograph Albums by Melissa Banta A New Analytical Technique in the Service of an Early Photographic Process by Elena Bula A Documentary History of Fellow Feeling: Tracing Connection at Harvard by Caroline Tanski Harvard’s Early Social Media by Kate Bowers Spring-Summer 2015, Volume 26, Numbers 1-2 The Caroline Miller Parker Collection of the Work of Walter Crane at Houghton Library: A Celebration of Its Riches and Research Potential on the Centenary Anniversary of the Artist’s Death The World of Walter Crane by Hope Mayo The Caroline Miller Parker Collection of the Work of Walter Crane: A History and Survey of the Collection by Francesca Tancini The House That Crane Built: Walter Crane, The House That Jack Built, and the Artist’s Early Book Production by Francesca Tancini Fall 2014, Volume 25, Number 3 The José María Castañé Collection of Twentieth-Century Historical Documents: Its Origins and Development by José María Castañé Membra Disjecta Sinaitica II: Three Syriac Fragments in the Harvard University Library by Grigory Kessel Translating Benjamin Franklin’s “Way to Wealth” into German… And Then Back into English by Kenneth E. Carpenter From French Nobility to American Farmer: The d’Autremont Family Papers in the Schlesinger Library by Catherine T.C. Spaeth Watermarks and Watersheds: The Dating of MS Riant 80 and the Overlapping Production of Manuscripts and Printed Books by Racha Kirakosian Summer 2014, Volume 25, Number 2 Henry James’s Fiction: A Comparison of Some Publishing Practices of Macmillan and Houghton, Mifflin by David J. Supino How I Found the Poets and How I Left Them: A Librarian’s Apology for Bibliography by Roger E. Stoddard Literary Works of Harry Levin’s Youth: The Making of a Major-Minor Modernist by Stephanie Spong and David King Dunaway Margaret Fuller and That Vineyard: A Note by Mario Bannoni Spring 2014, Volume 25, Number 1 The George Parker Winship Lecture Series at Houghton Library: A Bibliographer’s Creed by G. Thomas Tanselle Fall 2013, Volume 24, Number 3 Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach, 1714-1788: Exhibitions and Essays Celebrating the 300th Anniversary of the Composer’s Birth Summer 2013, Volume 24, Number 2 “Yours for freedom”: John P. Jewett Writes to Charles Sumner by Michael Winship Literary Fetishes: The Bronte Miniature Books by Liz Maynes-Aminzade Conceptual Constructions: Preservation of Harvard’s Bronte Juvenilia by Melissa Banta Spring 2013, Volume 24, Number 1 Catalog of Israeli Russian-Language Publications in the Harvard Library, Edited by Charles Berlin and Elizabeth Vernon with an Introduction by Evgeny Soshkin Making Sense of Miscellanies: Houghton Library MS Turk 11, an Ottoman Mecmua, Meredith M. Quinn “Containers of Ideas”: The Collection of Printmaking Artifacts of Philip Hofer, Caroline Duroselle-Melish Fall 2012, Volume 23, Number 3 The Fine Arts Library at 50, Edited by Amanda Bowen and Robert Sennett Spring-Summer 2012, Volume 23, Numbers 1-2 From Rhubarb to Rubies: European Travels to Safavid Iran (1550-1700) The Lands of the Sophi: Iran in Early Modern European Maps (1550-1700) Visiting Curators: Elio Brancaforte (Tulane University); Sonja Brentjes (Max Planck Institute for the History of Science) Summer-Fall 2011, Volume 22, Numbers 2-3 The Edward Lear Collection at Harvard University: Essays, a Checklist of the Incomparable Collection, and an Exhibition Catalog on the Occasion of the 200th Anniversary of Lear’s Birth The Natural History of Edward Lear, Robert McCracken Peck The Edward Lear Collection at Harvard University, Hope Mayo Exhibition Catalog: The Natural History of Edward Lear Spring 2011, Volume 22, Number 1 Reading and Collecting Dante in America: Harvard College Library and the Dante Society, Christian Y. Dupont "Temporary Spiritual Sustenance": The Print Culture of Russian Displaced Persons in Post-War Germany (1945-1951), Philipp S. Penka Winter 2010, Volume 21, Number 4 William Makepeace Thackeray: Essays and an Exhibition Catalog on the Occasion of the 200th Anniversary of the Birth of a Major Victorian Novelist Thackeray and his American Admirers-“Pleasant folks to fall among”, John Aplin Thackeray’s Drawings at Houghton Library, Sue Lonoff de Cuevas “There is no author so appealing to the collector”: Building a Thackeray Research Collection at Harvard, Heather G. Cole Exhibition Catalog, The Adventures of Thackeray in His Way Through the World: His Fortunes and Misfortunes, His Friends and His Family Fall 2010, Volume 21, Number 3 Melville’s Copy of Thomas Beale’s The Natural History of the Sperm Whale and the Composition of Moby-Dick, Steven Olsen-Smith The President Meets the Prophet: Charles W. Eliot’s 1910 Encounter with Kahlil Gibran, Paul M. Wright Spring-Summer 2010, Volume 21, Numbers 1-2 Piecing Together the Picture: Fragments of German and Netherlandish Manuscripts in Houghton Library, Jeffrey F. Hamburger Eucharist and Holy Spirit: Hidden Mass-Theology in an Early Thirteenth-Century Office Book Fragment, Felix Heinzer Rules to Live By: A Late Thirteenth-Century De Regimine mensium, Jeffrey F. Hamburger A Leaf of the Baptism of Christ and its Place in Thirteenth-Century Bavarian Psalter Illumination, Gude Suckale-Redlefsen The “Sweet Style” in Regensburg: An Addition to the Leaves from the early Fourteenth-Century Antiphonary from the Dominican Convent of the Holy Cross, Robert Suckale The Houghton Library Lanzelet Fragment, Nigel F. Palmer Typology Refigured: Marian Devotions derived from the Speculum humanae salvationis, Jeffrey F. Hamburger New Fragments of an Alsatian Copy of Jordan of Quedlinburg’s Sixty-Five Articles on the Passion, Jeffrey F. Hamburger Unpublished Leaves from the Missal of Johannes von Giltlingen, James H. Marrow An Unnoticed Photograph at Houghton Library; or, Unknown Leaves from the Library of Raphael de Marcatellis, Peter Kidd Fall-Winter 2009, Volume 20, Number 3-4 Preface, Thomas A. Horrocks Introduction, Howard D. Weinbrot Johnson and Revolution, Nicholas Hudson Johnson and Slavery, James G. Basker Johnson on Blackmore, Pope, Shakespeare—and Johnson, James Engell Vindicating Milton: Poetic Misprision in Johnson’s Dictionary of the English Language, Allen Reddick Modes of Definition in Johnson and His Contemporaries, Jack Lynch Studies of Johnson’s Dictionary, 1955-2009: A Bibliography, Jack Lynch Summer 2009, Volume 20, Number 2 The Model of a Modern Impresario; Diaghilev’s Russian Background, Laurence Senelick William James in his Times and Ours: Essays on the Occasion of the Centennial Exhibition at Houghton Library, “Life is in the transitions”: William James, 1842-1910 Jane Porter’s Later Works, 1825-1846, Thomas McLean Spring 2009, Volume 20, Number 1 The First and Second Recensions of the Chronique Anonyme Universelle: Houghton MS Typ 41 and MS Fr 495, Lisa Fagin Davis Four Transcendental Soldiers: Did Combat Experience Kill Emersonian Idealism in W.B. Greene, C.A. Dana, T.W. Higginson, and J.K. Hosmer?, Michael West Jake’s Black Box, Roger Stoddard Fall-Winter 2008, Volume 19, Numbers 3-4 Harvard's Lincoln, Thomas A. Horrocks, Foreword by Harold Holzer Spring-Summer 2008, Volume 19, Numbers 1-2 "From the Great Desire of Promoting Learning": Thomas Hollis's Gifts to the Harvard College Library, William H. Bond. Introduction by Allen Reddick; Preface by William P. Stoneman Fall-Winter 2007, Volume 18, Numbers 3-4 A Guide to Ukrainian Special Collections at Harvard University, Edited by Ksenya Kiebuzinski Spring-Summer 2007, Volume 18, Numbers 1-2 Golden Muse: The Loeb Music Library at 50, Edited by Sarah Adams, Virginia Danielson, and Robert J. Dennis Fall-Winter 2006, Volume 17, Numbers 3-4 Public Poet, Private Man: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow at 200, Christoph Irmscher Spring-Summer 2006, Volume 17, Numbers 1-2 Benjamin Franklin: A How-to Guide, Catalog of an Exhibition at Houghton Library June 5 – September 23, 2006 and the Collection of Historical Scientific Instruments June 5 – December 19, 2006, Edited by Joyce E. Chaplin Winter 2005, Volume 16, Number 4 Angus McBean, Theatrical Photographer, 1904-1990: An Exhibition in the Harvard Theatre Collection Angus McBean and Photography in the Harvard Theatre Collection, Fredric Woodbridge Wilson Angus McBean and the Theatre, Richard Traubner The “Head Quarters of Balladry”: Harvard, Child, Kittredge, and The English and Scottish Popular Ballads, Mary Ellen Brown An “Uncommonly Good” Design: H. Langford Warren’s 1906 Drawings for a Harvard Press Building, Maureen Meister Fall 2005, Volume 16, Number 3 Among Harvard’s Libraries, The Bateman Hornbook, J.F. Coakley Search for the Ten Privately Printed Copies of Longfellow’s translation of the Divine Comedy “In Commemorazione del secentesimo Anniversario della Nascita di Dante Alighieri”, Joan Nordell The “Dry-Lighted Soul” Ignites: Emerson and His Soul-Mate Caroline Sturgis As Seen in Her Houghton Manuscripts, Kathleen Lawrence Spring-Summer 2005, Volume 16, Numbers 1-2 First Supplement to James E. Walsh’s Catalogue of the Fifteenth-Century Printed Books in the Harvard University Library, David R. Whitesell New Series Fall-Winter 2004, Volume 15, Numbers 3-4 A Discography of the Harvard Vocarium, Josephine Packard Spring-Summer 2004, Volume 15, Numbers 1-2 RES Gestae, Libri Manent: An Exhibition and Symposium Celebrating the Career of Roger E. Stoddard Spring 2003, Volume 14, Number 4 Title-Labels in British Books, Brian J. McMullin Spring 2003, Volume 14, Number 3 Among Harvard’s Libraries “A Beginning is Made”: The New Card Catalogue of the Harvard College Library and the Female Labor Force, 1856-1877, Barbara A. Mitchell Building “Wisdom and Stability”: Mary Lowell Putnam’s Library and Women’s Book Culture in the Nineteenth Century, Helena Toth Librarians in loco parentis, Matthew Battles Spring 2003, Volume 14, Number 2 Among Harvard’s Libraries Familiar Quotations, Michael Hancher Bartlett’s Familiar Quotations: “A Glancing Bird’s Eye View” by a “Morbid Scholiast”, Michael David Cohen Spring 2003, Volume 14, Number 1 Among Harvard’s Libraries Recent Acquisitions: Harvard Law School Library, David Ferris Recent Acquisitions: Baker Library of the Harvard Business School, Tom Michalak, Jeff Cronin and Tim Driscoll The 2002 Philip Hofer Prize for Book and Art Collecting, Katharine Olson Robert Southey and The Flagellant, W.A. Speck Philip Chetwind and the Shakespeare Third Folio, Don-John Dugas Disjunction, Disunion, Daguerreotype, John R. Stilgoe Fall-Winter 2002, Volume 13, Numbers 3-4 Ralph Waldo Emerson: A Bicentennial Exhibition at Houghton Library, Ronald A. Bosco and Joel Myerson Summer 2002, Volume 13, Number 2 Among Harvard’s Libraries Recent Acquisitions: Loeb Music Library, Sarah Adams and Virginia Danielson Recent Acquisitions: Harvard Theatre Collection, Fredric Woodbridge Wilson Thomas Hollis of London and his Gifts: Two Hundred Seventy-Five Years of Piety and Philanthropy at Harvard, Peter J. Gomes The Library of the Hollis Professor of Divinity to 1778: A Checklist, Peter X. Accardo Spring 2002, Volume 13, Number 1 Hollis Redux, Matthew Battles Everyone’s Wild About Harry, Denison Beach The Measure of Ruins: Dilettanti in the Levant, 1750-1770, Bruce Redford Reading Nature Writing: Houghton Mifflin Company, the Ohio Teachers’ Reading Circle, and In American Fields and Forests (1909), Eric Lupfer EP, 1964, Ira Nadel Fall-Winter 2001, Volume 12, Number 4 A New Bibliography of John Crowne, B.J. McMullin Summer 2001, Volume 12, Number 3 Four Gems, Valerie Lester Filling in the Blanks: The Significance of Space in Emily Dickinson's Manuscript Books, Domhnall Mitchell William Jennings Bryan on a Gasoline Yacht: The Great Commoner Meets John Reed, Daniel W. Lehman Winter-Spring 2001, Volume 12, Numbers 1-2 The Lost Continent: Neo-Latin Literature and the Rise of Modern European Literatures. Catalog of an Exhibition at the Houghton Library 5 March - 5 May 2001, Edited by James Hankins Fall 2000, Volume 11, Numbers 3-4 Intention and Acumen: Recent Acquisitions in Harvard's Libraries, A Special Issue, Edited by Kenneth E. Carpenter Summer 2000, Volume 11, Number 2 Letter to the Editor, Jan Ziolkowski Melville's Prints: The Melville Chapin Collection, Robert K. Wallace A Blue and Gold Mystique: Reading the Material Text in Louisa May Alcott's "Pansies" and Ticknor & Field's Blue and Gold Series, Sarah Wadsworth The First Black Index: Albert P. Marshall and A Guide to Negro Periodical Literature, Richard Newman Spring 2000 Volume 11, Number 1 The Catalecta Petrulliana and the Burman Affair: Sex, Religion, and Feuding in Eighteenth-Century Netherlands, Blanche T. Ebeling-Koning Memorial Hall Windows Designed by Sarah Wyman Whitman, Virginia Raguin Malays Toying with Americans: the Rare Voices of Malay Scribes in Two Houghton Library Manuscripts, Ian Proudfoot Winter 1999, Volume 10, Number 4 "retracting nothing, & reaffirming all": F.B. Sanborn, the Emersons, and a Courtship Gone Wrong, Joel Myerson Talking Stones: Anthologies of Epitaphs from Humanism to Popular Culture, Karl S. Guthke Summer-Fall 1999, Volume 10, Numbers 2-3 Playwrights' Remuneration in Eighteenth-Century London, Judith Milhous and Robert D. Hume Spring 1999, Volume 10, Number 1 In Memoriam: Carolyn Fawcett (1945-1999) "Si vis archetypas habere nugas": Authorial Subscriptions in the Houghton Library and Huntington Library Copies of Politian, Miscelleanea (Florence: Miscomini 1489), Joseph A. Dane What is a Fascicle? Reading Emily Dickinson's Manuscript Books, Mary Loeffelholz The Influence of English Radical Satire on Nineteenth-Century American Print Satire: David Claypool Johnston's The House That Jeff Built, Marcus Wood Winter 1998, Volume 9, Number 4 An American Tribute to Otto Harrassowitz, Antiquariat und Verlagsbuchhandlung Foreword: Germanic Studies at Harvard: A Symposium and a Celebration, Michael P. Olson Otto Harrassowitz and His Firm, James Henry Spohrer The German Resources and Projects at the Library of Congress, Margrit Krewson Arnhem, February 23, 1395: Reconstructing the First Carnival Play Performance in the Germanic Collections, Eckehard Simon "Well said Mr. Northcote": Hester Thrale Piozzi's Annotated Copy of James Northcote's Biography of Sir Joshua Reynolds, Richard Wendorf "Always Affectionately William James": Letters to a Young Lady, Bernice Grohskopf Flora V. Livingston: Curator of the Harry Elkins Widener Collection, Bibliographer, and Lewis Carroll Enthusiast, August A. Imholtz, Jr. Fall 1998, Volume 9, Number 3 Richard Woodhouse's Cause Book: The Opium-Eater, the Magazine Wars, and the London Literary Scene in 1821, Robert Morrison Summer 1998, Volume 9, Number 2 Byron in America to 1830, Peter X. Accardo Spring 1998, Volume 9, Number 1 Printing in the Mission Field, Edited by J.F. Coakley Winter 1997, Volume 8, Number 4 Melville's Prints: David Metcalf's Prints and Tile, Robert K. Wallace Melville's Prints: The Gipsies, Robert K. Wallace The Melville House at 104 East 26th Street, Hershel Parker The Story Behind a Stray Medieval Manuscript Leaf, Jerome S. Arkenberg Fall 1997, Volume 8, Number 3 Forming Harvard's Collection of Incunabula, James E. Walsh Summer 1997, Volume 8, Number 2 His Lectures Were Poetry, His Teaching the Music of the Spheres: Annie Adams Fields and Francis Greenwood Peabody on Emerson's "Natural History of the Intellect" University Lectures at Harvard in 1870, Ronald A. Bosco Spring 1997, Volume 8, Number 1 Teaching Fascism: Schoolbooks of Mussolini's Italy, Clive Foss Virgil, Theodore Roosevelt, and John Davis Long, Neighbors in the Widener Stacks, Richard F. Thomas Victorian Scholarship and the Addison Manuscript, J.D. Alsop G.W. Cottrell, Jr.: A Memoir, William H. Bond Winter 1996, Volume 7, Number 4 Among Harvard's Libraries About This Issue The Area Studies Collections in the Context of the Holdings and Circulation of Widener Library Monographs in Academic Year 1996/1997, Elizabeth Vernon A New Software Interface for Cataloging in Widener Library, William Hays Gaito Gazdanov: Russian Émigré Literature at Harvard, Laszlo Dienes Chronological Table of Gazdanov's Life and Work Catalog of the Paper of Gaito Gazdanov The Giaour and "The Greek Boy", Peter X. Accardo Fall 1996, Volume 7, Number 3 Among Harvard's Libraries Dr. Morse at Houghton Library, William Bond End of the War Between Print and Electronics, Kenneth E. Carpenter A Question of "Character": Visual Images and the Nineteenth-Century Construction of Edgar Allan Poe, William A. Pannapacker Nietzsche's Collapse, Karl S. Guthke An Early Catalonian Charter, Nathaniel L. Taylor Charles Darwin, Henry James, Sr., and "Evolution", James Duban Summer 1996, Volume 7, Number 2 The Author's Image: Italian Sixteenth-Century Printed Portraits, Ruth Mortimer, with an Introduction by G. Thomas Tanselle Spring 1996, Volume 7, Number 1 On the Occasion of Hugh Amory's Retirement In the Houghton Library Exhibition Hall, 7 December 1995, for the record…, Roger Stoddard 1695-1995: Some Tercentenary Thoughts on the Freedoms of the Press, Michael Treadwell Fielding's Tragedy of Tragedies: Papal Fallibility and Scriblerian Satire, Howard D. Weinbrot Refining Rochester: Private Texts and Public Readers, Harold Love The Trout and The Milk: An Ethnobibliographical Talk, Hugh Amory Winter 1995, Volume 6, Number 4 Among Harvard's Libraries Harvard's Eighteenth-Century Library Catalogues Republished On the Previous Issue of the HLB - "Widener Library: Voices from the Stacks" Exhibitions in Widener Library · About This Issue, Kenneth E. Carpenter Harry Elkins Widener and A.S.W. Rosenbach: Of Books and Friendship, Leslie A. Morris The Picture, the Poem, the Book: Henri Michaux's Three-Dimensional Creation, Elizabeth R. Jackson Edward Breath and the Typography of Syriac, J.F. Coakley Fall 1995, Volume 6, Number 3 Widener Library: Voices from the Stacks, A special issue edited by Kenneth E. Carpenter and Richard F. Thomas Summer 1995, Volume 6, Number 2 Among Harvard's Libraries The Riant Collection in the Harvard College Library, James E. Walsh Guides to the Perplexed in the Wilderness of Hebraica: From Historical to Contemporary Bibliographies and Catalogs of Hebraica, Menahem Schmelzer Archibald Cary Coolidge and Carinthia, Kenneth E. Carpenter Technological Advances in Publishing and the Media: The News in the Future Program, Jerome S. Rubin A Librarian's Challenge, Kenneth E. Carpenter "Dreaded Eloquence": The Origins and Rise of African American Literary Societies and Libraries, Elizabeth McHenry Harvard Library Bibliography: Supplement Spring 1995, Volume 6, Number 1 Among Harvard's Libraries Cataloging Books in Widener, Kenneth E. Carpenter From Worksheet to Workstation: Technical Services Workstations in Harvard College Library's Cataloging Services Department, Michael Kaplan Melville's Prints: The Ambrose Group, Robert K. Wallace A Sinister Macbeth: The Macklin Production of 1773, Matthew J. Kinservik Winter 1994-1995, Volume 5, Number 4 Among Harvard's Libraries Digital Imaging at the Harvard Library, Charles Berlin Cataloging Harvard's Incunabula Alice Speaks Russian: The Russian Translations of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the Looking-Glass, Nina M. Demurova Vestris-Mania and the Construction of Celebrity: Auguste Vestris in London, 1780-81, Judith Milhous Fall 1994, Volume 5, Number 3 Among Harvard's Libraries Douglas W. Bryant (1913-1994), Sidney Verba A Note on the Origins of the Houghton Library An Acquisitions Trip to Ukraine, Jaryna Turko Bodrock Harvard's Germanic Collections: Their History, Their Future, Michael P. Olson Graffiti and the Imagination: Paul Goodman in His Short Stories, Taylor Stoehr Two Leaves of the Gottschalk Antiphonary, Lisa Fagin Davis Charles Eliot Norton's "Medicean Dante", Rachel Jacoff Contracts for Two Drury Lane Actresses in 1822, Cheryl Wanko Summer 1994, Volume 5, Number 2 Literature and the Visual Arts from the Pre-Raphaelites to Warhol, Edited by Richard Wendorf Spring 1994, Volume 5, Number 1 Among Harvard's Libraries The Great Catalog-Card To-Do Producing the Harvard Library Bulletin Mildred Howells as the Father's Daughter: Living within His Lines, Polly H. Howells Slouching towards Altruria: Evolution, Ecology, and William Dean Howells, Glen A. Love "The Dream of Duty Tormenting Us All": The World of Chance and the Decline of Realism", Sarah B. Daugherty Giving a Character: Howellsian Realism in The Landlord at Lion's Head, John W. Crowley Emily Dickinson's Ambrosian Nights with Christopher North, Michael West Winter 1993-1994, Volume 4, Number 4 The Houghton Library, 1991-1993 The Librarian and the Curators of the Houghton Library The Uses of Manuscripts: Late Medieval English, Derek Pearsall Seven Bad Reasons Not to Study Manuscripts, Robert Darnton Columbus in Chains: Tennyson and the Conquests of Monologue, Herbert F. Tucker The Two Lives of the Poem, Helen Vendler Fall 1993, Volume 4, Number 3 Among Harvard's Libraries Updating the Library David P. Wheatland (1893-1993), Roger E. Stoddard Melville's Prints: The Reese Collection, Robert K. Wallace Letters Home, Meredith M. Brown The Waterhouse Clock, Oglesby Paul and Richard J. Wolfe Reading in Revolutionary Times: Book Borrowing from the Harvard College Library, 1773-1782, Mark Olsen and Louis-Georges Harvey Summer 1993, Volume 4, Number 2 Rare Book and Manuscript Libraries in the Twenty-First Century: An International Symposium, Part Two, Edited by Richard Wendorf Spring 1993, Volume 4, Number 1 Rare Book and Manuscript Libraries in the Twenty-First Century: An International Symposium, Part One, Edited by Richard Wendorf Winter 1992-1993, Volume 3, Number 4 Among Harvard's Libraries William Bentinck-Smith (1914-1993) Centering Somewhere in Time, Clark A. Elliott How Harvard Didn't Get its Rare Books & Manuscripts, Roger E. Stoddard Canterbury Pilgrims and Their Horses in the Eighteenth Century, Betsy Bowden Condorcet's Vie de Monsieur Turgot, Anton Gerits The Provenance of the Trevet Chronicle (fMS Eng 938), Christine M. Rose Thomas Jefferson's Library and the Skipwith List, Douglas L. Wilson Harvard Library Bibliography: Supplement Fall 1992, Volume 3, Number 3 Among Harvard's Libraries Use of the Harvard Libraries The Woodberry Poetry Room at Harvard University, 1931-1991, Stratis Haviaras The 1850 Harvard Medical School Dispute and the Admission of African American Students, Doris Y. Wilkinson The Iconographic History of Hans Holbein and the Younger's Icones and Their Reception in the Later Sixteenth Century, Erika Michael Modernism and the American Catholic Church: Two Unpublished Essays by William Laurence Sullivan, Robert J. Penella Summer 1992, Volume 3, Number 2 Material Poetry of the Renaissance/The Renaissance of Material Poetry, Edited by Roland Greene Spring 1992, Volume 3, Number 1 Among Harvard's Libraries The Coming Revolution in Knowledge, Michael Crichton Retrospective Conversion of the Harvard Library's Card Catalogs Justin Winsor on Libraries in 1885 Science and the Poet: Emily Dickinson's Herbarium and "The Clue Divine", Richard B. Sewall Commitment to Renewal: A Strategic Plan for the Harvard College Library Alice Milligan and Irish Nationalism, Carl Racine William Dean Howells and the Seductress: From Femme Fatale to Femme Vitale, Elizabeth S. Prioleau Winter 1991, Volume 2, Number 4 Bits and Pieces: Music for Theatre, Edited by Lowell Lindgren Fall 1991, Volume 2, Number 3 Among Harvard's Libraries About This Issue Looking at Books, Learning From It, Passing It Along, Roger E. Stoddard Librarian on the Road (To Morocco and Beyond), Fawzi Abdulrazak The Authorship and Purpose of the Histoire naturelle et morale des iles Antilles, an Early Huguenot Emigration Guide, Everett C. Wilkie, Jr. Summer 1991, Volume 2, Number 2 Preserving Harvard's Retrospective Collections: Report of the Harvard University Library, Task Group on Collection Preservation Priorities Spring 1991, Volume 2, Number 1 Music Librarianship in America, Edited by Michael Ochs Winter 1990-1991, Volume 1, Number 4 Among Harvard's Libraries The Revolution in the College Library, Kenneth E. Carpenter The Stage Art of Theodore Komisarjevsky: An Exhibition in the Harvard Theatre Collection, Catherine J. Johnson Shakespeare's Italians, Harry Levin American Library Resources for Latin American Studies, William Vernon Jackson Harvard Library Bibliography: Supplement Fall 1990, Volume 1, Number 3 Among Harvard's Libraries About This Issue, R.J. Tarrant The Vocabulary of Wax Tablets, R.H. Rouse and M.A. Rouse A Bouquet of Wisdom and Invective: Houghton MS. Lat 300, Jan Ziolkowski A Living Past: The Historical Environment of the Middle Ages, Giles Constable Summer 1990, Volume 1, Number 2 Among Harvard's Libraries About This Issue Conference on Research Trends and Library Resources, Lawrence Dowler Say the Secret Word: An Odyssey Through Harvard's Libraries and Musuems, Barbara Haber, Joyce Toomre, and Barbara Wheaton Latin Verse of the Renaissance: The Collection and Exhibition at the Houghton Library, Roger E. Stoddard The Failed American Dream: Cousin Robert Temple and James's "Jolly Corner", Charles and Tess Hoffman The Graphic Art of Thomas Buford Meteyard, Nancy Finlay Spring 1990, Volume 1, Number 1 Among Harvard's Libraries Ralph Waldo Emerson's Report on the Harvard College Library, Edited by Kenneth E. Carpenter William G. Medlicott (1816-1883): An American Book Collector and His Collection, J.R. Hall The Sales of Louisa May Alcott's Books, Joel Myerson and Daniel Shealy Show LessShow More Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.