Columbia University Libraries Columbia University » Home Libraries » Home Digital Library Collections » Home Columbia Libraries Locations Columbia Archival Collections Portal CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog Log In Help About Ask a Librarian Suggestions & Feedback Library Hours Maps and Locations Terms of Use Lehman Special Correspondence Files from the Herbert H. Lehman Collections Search in All Fields Full Text Document ID for Q About The Project Related Resources Lehman Collections at Columbia Archival Finding Aid FAQ Permanent URL BROWSE THE COLLECTION ABOUT THE COLLECTION About the Project The Special Correspondence Files of the Herbert Lehman Papers contain correspondence with nearly 1,000 individuals from 1864 through 1982. Beginning with letters from Lehman's family in the late nineteenth century, the series documents the range and scope of Lehman's long career in public service. In addition to family letters, the Special Correspondence Files contain letters from every President of the U. S. from Franklin Roosevelt to Lyndon Johnson, as well as from notables such as Dean Acheson, Benjamin Cardozo, Paul Douglas, Felix Frankfurter, W. Averill Harriman, Harold Ickes, Robert F. Kennedy, Fiorello LaGuardia, Henry Morgenthau, Alfred E. Smith, Adlai Stevenson, and Robert Wagner, among many others. Read more » About the Collections Established in 1971, the Herbert H. Lehman Collections serve the Columbia academic community and scholars from around the world. The Collections include the personal and official papers of Governor Lehman, as well as those of his wife, Edith Altschul Lehman; Frank Altschul; Charles Poletti; Paul Baerwald; Julius Edelstein; James G. McDonald; the Senate Research Papers of William B. Welsh; and the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration (UNRRA) papers of Hugh R. Jackson, Robert G.A. Jackson, Marshal McDuffie, and Richard B. Scandrett. In addition, the Non-Sectarian Anti-Nazi League Collection of Pamphlets and Periodicals and UNRRA microfilm records from 1943 to 1949 are part of the Collections. Read more » 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 • Telephone (212) 854-7309 Order a Reproduction | Copyright and Permissions | Suggestions & Feedback