Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions PUL honors Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month Representative Patsy Mink announces the formation of the Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus at a press conference with (left to right) Representatives Don Edwards and Norman Mineta, Guam Delegate Robert Underwood, and Representatives Nancy Pelosi and Neil Abercrombie. (May 1994) In celebration of Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) Heritage Month, Princeton University Library (PUL) highlights a selection of collection items and resources that illustrate the history, culture, and political and social efforts of AAPI communities. Asian American Drama Asian American Drama contains more than 200 plays by 42 playwrights, and is home to detailed, fielded information on related productions, theaters, production companies, and more. Some 50 percent of these plays have never been published before. The collection begins with the works of Sadakichi Hartmann in the late 19th century and progresses to the writings of contemporary playwrights, such as Philip Kan Gotanda, Elizabeth Wong, and Jeannie Barroga. Migration to New Worlds Japanese in the United States: A Critical Study of the Problems of the Japanese Immigrants and their Children by Yamato Ichihashi. This database showcases unique primary source material recounting the many and varied personal experiences of 350 years of migration. Includes Colonial Office files on emigration, diaries and travel journals, ship logs and plans, printed literature, objects, watercolors, and oral histories supplemented by carefully selected secondary research aids. The Rafu Shimpo The Rafu Shimpo (羅府新報, L.A. Japanese Daily News) is the longest-running Japanese American newspaper in the United States. The paper began in 1903 supporting the small but growing Japanese community in the Little Tokyo area of Los Angeles, California. By the 1940s it was the most widely circulated paper in the region and included a weekly English section for second generation Japanese Americans. Ethnic NewsWatch Interdisciplinary, bilingual (English and Spanish), full-text database of the newspapers, magazines and journals of the ethnic, minority, and native press dating back to 1960. Hikoichi Orita Diary, 1872-1876 Mr. Hikoichi Orita, Vice President of the Education Association of Kyoto Prefecture. This photocopied two-volume diary was written by Hikoichi Orita (1849-1920), a Japanese student, while he attended Princeton University between 1872 and 1876. Upon his graduation from Princeton, Orita returned to Japan and became a leading educational reformer. Orita made entries in English for each day of his time at Princeton, including accounts and bills paid, as well as memoranda written in Japanese. For the most part, the entries are brief, listing classes and recitations, visits to the chapel, letters from friends, the weather, and some personal notes such as visits with faculty and friends, illnesses and his loneliness. He also writes of travels to New York City, New Brunswick, and New England. Pipa: the magazine for Chinese speaking kids in North America. Cotsen Children’s Library holds Volumes 1-8 (2013-2020). Some Chinese characters are accompanied with a pronunciation guide in Pinyin. The first issue of Volumes 2-4 is inserted with a red paper-cut of a horse, sheep, and monkey respectively, zodiac animals of the upcoming Chinese New Year. Asian American Studies Libguide This guide to print and electronic resources provides links to e-books, articles, data sets, organizations, primary sources and more. Published on May 10, 2022 Compiled by Office of Library Communications and Steve Knowlton, Librarian for History and African American Studies Media contact: Barbara Valenza, Director of Library Communication Newsletter Subscribe to Princeton University Library’s e-newsletter for the latest updates on teaching and research support, collections, resources, and services. News Categories Acquisition Highlights (29) Announcements (50) Annual updates from the University Librarian (2) Anti-Racism & Social Justice (40) Buildings & Facilities (3) Collections (57) Databases (59) Digital Library (4) Events & Workshops (138) Exhibitions (72) Featured E-Resource (16) Featured on Social Media (10) General news (190) Grants (6) Instruction (1) ld4p (42) Library Staff Events (1) Meet Our Specialists (33) Newspapers and Other Leisure (5) Recent Acquisitions (27) Resources (44) Series: Inside PUL (2) Series: Inside the Chronicle (5) Series: Inside the Hellenic Collections (6) Series: Inside the Milberg Gallery (32) Series: Spotlights (12) Series: Teaching with Collections (11) Services (3) Special Collections (68) Spotlight Remote (6) Talks (2) Library Blogs Cotsen Children's Library East Asian Library Environmental Sciences Information Graphic Arts Collections Mendel Music Library Mudd Manuscript Library Notabilia RBSC Manuscripts Division News RBSC News and Events Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top