CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee About Undergraduate Library Services Welcome to Columbia and especially to the Libraries! Columbia University Libraries (CUL) is one of the top five academic research library systems in North America. The collections include over 13 million volumes, over 160,000 journals and serials, as well as extensive electronic resources, manuscripts, rare books, microforms, maps, and graphic and audio-visual materials.The services and collections are organized into 17 libraries and various academic technology centers, including affiliates. The libraries support the instructional and research information needs of the University. Butler Library is the largest of the 17 libraries at Columbia and its affiliated institutions, and the one most heavily used by first-year students, especially those in Columbia College and SEAS. Undergraduates may use any library on campus and also the libraries of Columbia's affiliated institutions, Barnard College and Teachers College. Butler Reserves Collection Located at the Circulation Desk on the third level, Butler Reserves is a collection of books and articles selected by faculty to support their current course teaching. Butler Reserves covers most undergraduate classes, as well as graduate classes in history and humanities. For example, reserve readings for courses in the Core Curriculum (e.g., Contemporary Civilization, Literature Humanities) are available in Butler Reserves. Reserve materials usually circulate for two hours (or overnight after 6 p.m.) Use the Course Reserves link in the CLIO Catalog sidebar or the Library Reserves tab in CourseWorks to find reserves readings for your classes. The Philip L. Milstein Family College Library The interdisciplinary undergraduate collection is housed in the Philip L. Milstein Family College Library in Butler Library. The collection is shelved in the 24/7 reading rooms on the second, third, and fourth floors. With approximately 50,000 volumes, the collection is especially strong in history, literature, and the social sciences supporting the undergrduate curricula in Columbia College, General Studies, and to a limited extent, SEAS. Undergraduate students may check out Milstein books for semester loan. Books may be checked out from the Circulation Desk (3rd floor). 24-Hour Reading Rooms The Milstein Library within Butler Library provides 24-hour study areas during the fall and spring semesters. These reading rooms also provide power/data connections for laptop users and wireless access. A valid CUID is required to enter the library. Butler Library Research Services The Butler Reference Desk in room 307 is the place to go for face-to-face assistance in finding answers to course-related research or general questions and for help in using print and electronic resources in CLIO and Library databases. The Reference Rooms, Butler 301 and 310, have biographies, bibliographies, indexes, encyclopedias, dictionaries, atlases, gazetteers and other reference works in hundreds of languages. Other Library Services Other library services and collections will become familiar as you go through the academic year, including: Periodicals & Microforms Reading Room Digital Social Science Center Digital Science Center U.S. Government Information Services & Tools Library Information Office We invite you to explore the library resources available to you. There are staff members at service desks throughout the libraries to assist you and provide you with more information. Orientation & Library Instruction Orientation help desks and tours are offered by many of the libraries in the beginning of the fall semester to help new students learn their way around. The new student orientation program (NSOP) includes a library welcome event. Later in the school year, undergraduates enrolled in University Writing complete a library assignment that includes instruction in library research skills. The Libraries offer a variety of instructional workshops throughout the year on using specialized software and other resources for research. We look forward to supporting your scholarship, and helping you to make the most of the libraries' services and collections. Sidebar Undergraduate Library Services Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact Butler Library 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-0520 E-mail: undergrad@library.columbia.edu Undergraduate Library Services Links About Staff Services Milstein Call Number Guide FLI Partnership Library Related Links Butler Library Butler Library Research Services Butler Floorplans & Call Number Guide Ask a Librarian CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.