Skip to primary content We Cannot Remain Silent Search Main menu We Cannot Remain Silent Chapters Introduction: Imagining Brazil in the United States Chapter 1: Revolution and Counterrevolution in Brazil Chapter 2: The Birth of a Movement Chapter 3: The World Turned Upside Down Chapter 4: Academic and Artistic Freedom Chapter 5: The Campaign Against Torture Chapter 6: Latin Americanists Take a Stand Chapter 7: Human Rights and the Organization of American States Chapter 8: Congressional Questioning Chapter 9: Denouncing the Dictatorship Chapter 10: Performing Opposition Chapter 11: The Slow-Motion Return to Democracy Conclusions: Making a Difference Capítulos Prólogo: Era um país subdesenvolvido Capítulo I: A gente quer ter voz ativa Capítulo II: “Caminanho e cantando e seguindo a canção,” Capítulo III: Agora Falando Sério Capítulo IV: “Acorda amor” Capítulo V: “Vai meu irmão” Capítulo VI: “Pode me prender, pode me bater” Capítulo VII: “Fado Tropical” Capítulo VIII: “While my eyes go looking for flying saucers in the sky” Capítulo IX: “Navegar é preciso” Capítulo X: “Quem é essa mulher?” Capítulo XI: “Amanhã hã de ser outro dia” Biographies We Cannot Remain Silent In 1964, Brazil’s democratically elected, left-wing government was ousted in a coup and replaced by a military junta. The Johnson administration quickly recognized the new government. The U.S. press and members of Congress were nearly unanimous in their support of the “revolution” and the coup leaders’ anti-communist agenda. Few Americans were aware of the human rights abuses perpetrated by Brazil’s new regime. By 1969, a small group of academics, clergy, Brazilian exiles, and political activists had begun to educate the American public about the violent repression in Brazil and mobilize opposition to the dictatorship. By 1974, most informed political activists in the United States associated the Brazilian government with its torture chambers. In We Cannot Remain Silent, James N. Green analyzes the U.S. grassroots activities against torture in Brazil, and the ways those efforts helped to create a new discourse about human rights violations in Latin America. He explains how the campaign against Brazil’s dictatorship laid the groundwork for subsequent U.S. movements against human rights abuses in Chile, Uruguay, Argentina, and Central America. Green interviewed many of the activists who educated journalists, government officials, and the public about the abuses taking place under the Brazilian dictatorship. Drawing on those interviews and archival research from Brazil and the United States, he describes the creation of a network of activists with international connections, the documentation of systematic torture and repression, and the cultivation of congressional allies and the press. Those efforts helped to expose the terror of the dictatorship and undermine U.S. support for the regime. Against the background of the political and social changes of the 1960s and 1970s, Green tells the story of a decentralized, international grassroots movement that effectively challenged U.S. foreign policy. About The Author James N. Green is Carlos Manuel de Céspedes Professor of Latin American History at Brown University and past president of the Brazilian Studies Association. He is the editor of Lina Penna Sattamini’s book, A Mother’s Cry: A Memoir of Politics, Prison, and Torture under the Brazilian Military Dictatorship (Duke University Press, 2010), Herbert Daniel: Gay Brazilian Revolutionary (Duke University Press, 2018), and Beyond Carnival: Male Homosexuality in Twentieth-Century Brazil, (University of Chicago Press, 1999), and numerous edited collections. Website Content and Design Daniel McDonald received his Ph.D. in Modern Latin American History from Brown University in 2020. Julia Terra-Salomão Class of 2024 Lanna Leite is a graduating senior with a double concentration in international relations and Portuguese and Brazilian Studies. Megan Hauptman is a senior at Brown University, originally from Arlington, Virginia. Erika Manouselis is a junior at Brown University born in New York City to a Brazilian mother. She is concentrating in classics, political science, and Portuguese and Brazilian Studies. Elizabeth Woodward is a junior concentrating in history and comparative literature at Brown University.