CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Donating Materials The University Archives welcomes donations of university records of enduring historical value and Columbia-related materials - including university publications and ephemera – regardless of format. If you are a current or former student who has personal or student group materials you would like considered for the University Archives collections, please see our guidelines for donating Student Life materials and then contact uarchives@columbia.edu with specific details about your possible donation. If you work in a University office or department and want those office/department files to come to the University Archives for permanent retention, please contact uarchives@columbia.edu to arrange for a site visit to survey your records and make decisions about what should be transferred to the Archives. Please consult our guidelines for Managing University Records for more information on records retention and disposition. If you are a non-Columbia affiliated individual with Columbia-related materials for possible donation, please email uarchives@columbia.edu and provide specific details about your materials so our staff can fully consider your offer. For all internal transfers of Columbia University records or materials, the donor should complete and return the Records Transmittal Form prior to physically transferring any files to the University Archives. Arrangements for transfers of records must be made with University Archives staff before anything moves from your space to ours. The University Archives also has some guidance on how to prepare your materials for donation. Please read our recommendations on how to pack boxes and how to transfer digital records. The University Archives reserves the right to de-accession files if they are obsolete, superseded, duplicated elsewhere, or otherwise irrelevant to the collection. For more information, see our Collection Policy. De-accessioned material will be discarded or redistributed to a more appropriate repository by University Archives staff unless the donor specifically requests the return of any unwanted material at the time of transfer/donation. Student Life | Donation Wish Lists | Faculty Papers Student Life The University Archives welcomes donations of Columbia-related materials from students, student organizations, alumni and friends of Columbia University. We are interested in materials, both paper-based and digital, which document campus and student life such as: Course materials, including notes, syllabi and assignments Event posters, flyers, programs, tickets, scripts and scores Journals, diaries, scrapbooks, letters Photographs (preferably labeled) Student group charters, by-laws, annual reports, minutes, membership lists, organizational histories Publications, newsletters, brochures, booklets, websites Other ephemera such medals, pins, banners, and commemorative items If you have Columbia-related materials you wish to give to the University Archives, please contact uarchives@columbia.edu and provide us with as much detail as possible about the material you wish to donate. Donation Wish Lists The Columbia Spectator Digital Archive includes a mostly complete run of the student newspaper from 1877 to 2015. There are a few issues missing from our holdings. If you have any of these past issues, please contact uarchives@columbia.edu. The University Archives has an almost complete run of The Columbia Jester, the humor magazine. We are currently missing the issues in volume 14: October 1913, Jnauary 1914 and March 1914. We have incomplete sets of volumes 46, 47 and 48 (1947-1950); and are missing volume 49 (1948?) and 57 (1957). Volume numbering for this publication is inconsistent and the number of issues per year also varies. If you have any of these past issues, please contact uarchives@columbia.edu. The University Archives also has a complete run of Columbia College yearbooks and a mostly complete run of the School of Engineering yearbooks. Some of our copies may not be in the best condition so we are seeking second copies for a select number of years. If you have one of these yearbooks you would like to donate, please contact uarchives@columbia.edu. Columbia traditions, such as the Varsity Show, are well represented in our holdings and related items are always welcome. We are also interested in materials related to Orientation, Homecoming, Commencement and Reunion. Finally, we are interested in materials related to student protests and activism, which are an integral part of campus life, from the occupation of five buildings in April 1968 to the present. The Columbia Jester cover, 1945 Sidebar Columbia University Archives Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor Butler Library 535 West 114th St. M.C. 1127 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-3786 E-mail: uarchives@columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Create or Access Your Special Collections Research Account Columbia University Archives About the University Archives Research & Access Use Policies & Services Collection Overview Columbia History Resources University Archives Research Guides Donating Materials Managing University Records Rare Book & Manuscript Library RBML News CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.