Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Houghton Library Visiting Fellowships Scholars at all stages of their careers are invited to apply to pursue projects that require in-depth research on Houghton Library’s holdings, draw on staff expertise, and participate in intellectual life at Harvard. Fellowship Opportunities Funding Eligibility Apply 2020-2021 Visiting Fellows Accepting applications for 2022-23 Houghton Library is accepting fellowship applications for the 2022-2023 season. The deadline is Friday, January 14, 2022. Apply now Houghton Library supports research opening new perspectives on its collections. 2017-2018 Visiting Fellow Dr. Ermine Algaier and his research assistant Diana J. Rhubi in Houghton Library's reading room. The Visiting Fellowship program offers scholars at all stages of their careers funding to pursue projects that require in-depth research on the library’s holdings, as well as opportunities to draw on staff expertise and participate in intellectual life at Harvard. Houghton provides fellows with access to other libraries at the University, and opportunities to exchange knowledge and promote their research through its publications, and scholarly and public programs. Recent fellows' research topics speak to the breadth and depth of Houghton’s holdings—ranging from colonial-era Native American music to the collecting of Sanskrit manuscripts, and Iberian chivalric romances to celebrity pregnancy on the London stage. Houghton Library has historically focused on collecting the written record of European and Eurocentric North American culture, yet it holds a large and diverse amount of primary sources valuable for research on the languages, culture and history of indigenous peoples of the Americas, Africa, Asia and Oceania. The library particularly welcomes proposals that reexamine its collections through a global lens and/or demonstrate how the holdings of a rare book and manuscript library can contribute to discourse around contemporary social, political, and cultural issues. New fellowships on gender and sexuality studies in the performing arts, and early modern black lives underscore Houghton's commitment to diversifying perspectives on our collections. Responsibilities Fellows receive a $3,600 stipend and are expected to be in residence at Houghton for at least four weeks within their fellowship year (July through June), though these do not have to be consecutive weeks. Fellows are also required to produce a written summary of their experience working with the collections. For an insight into the Visiting Fellowship experience at Houghton, visit our blog. Fellowship Opportunities Thanks to the generosity of the library's benefactors, seventeen endowed fellowships support research in the following fields of study: Beatrice, Benjamin, and Richard Bader Fellowship in the Visual Arts of the Theatre W. Jackson Bate/ Douglas W. Bryant, American Society for Eighteenth‑Century Studies Fellowship; Successful applicants must either be an ASECS member in good standing or be willing to become a member in order to receive this fellowship. José María Castañé Fellowship in 20th-century History Maryette Charlton Fellowship for the Performing Arts; This fellowship is available to assist scholarly research on gender and sexuality in the performing arts. William Dearborn Fellowship in American History Rodney G. Dennis Fellowship in the Study of Manuscripts The Ralph Waldo Emerson Fellowship Eleanor M. Garvey Fellowship in Printing and Graphic Arts Houghton Mifflin Fellowship in Publishing History Donald and Mary Hyde Fellowship for Research in Early Modern Black Lives, including Africa and the African Diaspora, 1500-1800 Donald and Mary Hyde Fellowship for the Study of Dr. Samuel Johnson and his Circle Joan Nordell Fellowship Katharine F. Pantzer Jr. Fellowship in Descriptive Bibliography; This fellowship carries a stipend of $3,600 per month, up to twelve months (maximum $43,200). Fellows are expected to be in residence at Houghton Library for the duration of the fellowship. The Theodore Roosevelt Association Fellowship for the Study of the Life and Times of Theodore Roosevelt Howard D. Rothschild Fellowship in Dance Robert Gould Shaw Fellowship for the Harvard Theatre Collection John M. Ward Fellowship in Dance and Music for the Theatre Funding Fellowship stipends of $3,600 are awarded to help support visiting fellows during the tenure of their appointment. Eligibility Open to candidates of all nationalities. Non-U.S. citizens awarded a fellowship are required to obtain a J-1 visa. Harvard University can sponsor the visa, but fellows are responsible for paying associated fees and will receive their stipend 2-3 weeks after arriving at Houghton Library. Doctoral students, post-doctoral, academics and independent scholars, as well as curators, and other library, archive and museum professionals, are welcome to apply. Fellowships normally are not granted to scholars who live within commuting distance of the library. Scholars are welcome to apply each year. If awarded a fellowship, however, a period of 5 years must elapse before another fellowship may be awarded. We particularly welcome applications from students and scholars from underrepresented groups in academia, including women, Black, Indigenous, and other people of color, first generation scholars, and persons with disabilities. Apply Applicants are asked to submit: a project proposal a preliminary list of Houghton collection materials a curriculum vitae two letters of reference Please note: Other than the Pantzer Fellowship, applicants need not apply for specific fellowships, as the Selection Committee determines which fellowship is best suited to your research, if awarded a fellowship. Applicants are strongly encouraged to save applications in progress; do not submit your application until it is complete. Apply now Have questions? Peter X. Accardo email: accardo@fas.harvard.edu Phone number 617-496-4027 2020-2021 Visiting Fellows Patty Argyrides Ph.D. Candidate in English Language and Literature, Queen’s University (Kingston, Ontario) “Embodied Language in Modernist Literature and Dance” Howard D. Rothschild Fellowship in Dance  Samuel Backer Ph.D. Candidate in History, Johns Hopkins University “The Parlor and the Public: The Political Economy of American Culture, 1870-1920” Robert Gould Shaw Fellowship for the Harvard Theatre Collection  Dr. Liza Blake Assistant Professor, Graduate Department of English, University of Toronto “Choose Your Own Poems and Fancies: A Digital Rearrangeable Edition and Study of Margaret Cavendish’s Atom Poems” Katharine F. Pantzer Jr. Fellowship in Descriptive Bibliography  Dr. Alvan Bregman Associate Professor Emeritus of Library Administration, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign “Unrecorded Narcissus Luttrell pamphlets” Katharine F. Pantzer Jr. Fellowship in Descriptive Bibliography  Catherine Clay Associate Professor in Feminist and Literary Studies, Nottingham Trent University “Theodora Bosanquet and Transnational Feminist Networks in Europe, 1919-1948” Rodney G. Dennis Fellowship in the Study of Manuscripts  Dr. Daniela D'Eugenio Vanderbilt University “Didactic Visualization of Gnomic Expressions in Early Modern Italian Calligraphy” Eleanor M. Garvey Fellowship in Printing and Graphic Arts Patrick Dooling PhD. Candidate, Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität Bonn “The Fiore di Virtù - Studies on the illustration and reception of a book of virtues from the early Trecento” Katharine F. Pantzer Jr. Fellowship in Descriptive Bibliography  Ashley Garcia PhD. Candidate in History, University of Texas - Austin. “An American Socialism: The Fourierist Movement and Nineteenth Century American Culture” William Dearborn Fellowship in American History  Daphne Grieco PhD. Candidate in Textes, Traditions and Book Cultures, Italian and Romance Studies, University of Naples Federico II, Scuola Superiore Meridionale “Rerum vulgarium fragmenta: a catalogue of incunabula and early printed books now at Houghton Library” Katharine F. Pantzer Jr. Fellowship in Descriptive Bibliography  Dr. Monica Hahn Adjunct Professor, Temple University, and Assistant Professor of Art History, Community College of Philadelphia “Harlequins of Empire: Staging Native Identity in British Imperial Art circa 1776” W. Jackson Bate/Douglas W. Bryant/American Society for Eighteenth Century Studies (ASECS)  Dr. Jacek Hajduk Institute of Classical Philology, Jagiellonian University “Józef Wittlin Collection” Joan Nordell Fellowship  Dr. Michael Holland Emeritus Fellow, St Hugh's College, University of Oxford “Examination of the Maurice Blanchot Papers” Houghton Library Fellowship Dr. Jasmine Jagger Lecturer in English Literature, University of Oxford “Edward Lear and the Tennysons” Eleanor M. Garvey Fellowship in Printing and Graphic Arts  Chacko Kuruvilla PhD. Candidate in Creative Writing and Critical Studies, University of California, Santa Cruz “Emersonianism” Ralph Waldo Emerson Fellowship  Dr. Caitlyn Lehmann University of Melbourne “Airy Turns: Ballet and Romantic Transformation on the London Stage” John M. Ward Fellowship in Dance and Music for the Theatre Alexander Leslie PhD. Candidate in American History, Rutgers University “Reading Regions: Cultural Geography and American Literature, 1865-1925” Houghton Mifflin Fellowship in Publishing History  Dr. Sarah McCleave Senior Lecturer in Musicology, Queen’s University Belfast “Fame and the female dancer, 1720-1860: a study of a gender's prospects in a developing profession” Howard D. Rothschild Fellowship in Dance  Alicia Meyer PhD. Candidate in English, University of Pennsylvania “Popular Portraiture in Early Modern Printed Ephemera: Race and Material Culture” Donald and Mary Hyde Fellowship for Research in Early Modern Black Lives, including Africa and the African Diaspora, 1500-1800  Dr. Katherine Newey Professor of Theatre History, Department of Drama, University of Exeter “Theatre and Visual Culture in Britain, 1850-1900” Beatrice, Benjamin, and Richard Bader Fellowship in the Visual Arts of the Theatre  Dr. Kim Nielsen Disability Studies, History and Women’s & Gender Studies, University of Toledo “Dorothea Dix, Psychiatric Asylums, and the Complexities of Benevolence” William Dearborn Fellowship in American History  Jeff Noh PhD. Candidate in English, McGill University “Harold Brodkey’s Paper Ecologies: ‘A Party of Animals’ from 1954 to 1991” Houghton Library Fellowship Dr. Kate Ozment Assistant Professor of English, California State Polytechnic University, Pomona “Collecting Women’s History: A Case Study of Mary Hyde, Rosamond B. Loring, and Mildred Bliss” Donald and Mary Hyde Fellowship for the Study of Dr. Samuel Johnson and his Circle  Andre Penafiel British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow, University of Oxford “From manuscript to print: the publication of Camões's Os Lusíadas in the sixteenth century” Katharine F. Pantzer Jr. Fellowship in Descriptive Bibliography  R. Lakshmi Poorna CSIR-Structural Engineering Research Centre, Chennai, India "Exploring the document collection at the Houghton Library for information on Indian traditional building architecture" Joan Nordell Fellowship    Karin Roffman Associate Director, Public Humanities and Senior Lecturer in Humanities, Yale University “Biography of John Ashbery” Rodney G. Dennis Fellowship in the Study of Manuscripts  Keidrick Roy PhD. Candidate, Harvard University “Blood, Nation, and Politics: Creating the Other in Hitler’s Germany” José María Castañé Fellowship in 20th-century History  Dr. Anna Senkiw Oxford Brookes University “Sociability and Celebrity: The Friendship between Elizabeth Montagu and David Garrick” Maryette Charlton Fellowship for the Performing Arts  Dr. Mary Shannon Senior Lecturer, Department of English and Creative Writing, University of Roehampton “The Celebrated Billy Waters and the Circulation of Popular Culture: race, celebrity, and popular culture in nineteenth-century Britain” Robert Gould Shaw Fellowship for the Harvard Theatre Collection  Natale Vacalebre PhD. Candidate in Italian Studies, University of Pennsylvania “A Book for All Seasons: Reading Habits and Material Reception of Dante’s Divina Commedia in Early Modern Italy” Katharine F. Pantzer Jr. Fellowship in Descriptive Bibliography  Show LessShow More Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.