Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box » Libraries Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Want to search for books, journals, and articles instead? Exit Search Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving My Account Make a Gift Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving MY ACCOUNT Computers Computers are located on the second (main) floor of the Valley Library. No available computers? Check out a laptop at the Circulation Desk. List of available software Types of computers ONID-only computers provide internet access, library resources, and have pre-installed programs. These workstations are available to OSU students, faculty and staff with a valid ONID account. These computers permit saving of files to the desktop, the network, cloud storage (e.g. Google, Box), or a USB flash drive. Computer use guidelines Computers for Valley Library patrons are available to library card or computer-use cardholders. The computers offer access to the library catalog, databases and electronic journals. Programs Firefox Chrome Internet Explorer Open Office Daily time limit of three hours There are five computers that provide up to one hour of continuous use. There are three computers that provide up to three hours of continuous use. Computer users must be 16 years-old or have a valid library or computer use card. Library and computer-use cards require a parent/guardian signature for patrons under 16 years of age. Have your own computer? Wifi is available to OSU students, faculty, staff and visitors. The Information Services Service Desk has instructions on how to connect and register a device. Need support for your computer? Visit the Information Services Service Desk in Milne 201. Other Campus Resources Other Campus Computer Labs Engineering Computer Labs Contact Info 121 The Valley Library Corvallis OR 97331–4501 541-737-3331 Contact Us Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Flickr Twitter Instagram In The Valley Library Oregon State University Press Special Collections and Archives Research Center Undergrad Research & Writing Studio Graduate Student Commons Tutoring Services Student Multimedia Studio Northwest Art Collection Child Care Digital Projects Oregon Explorer Oregon Digital ScholarsArchive@OSU Digital Publishing Initiatives Atlas of the Pacific Northwest Branches Marilyn Potts Guin Library Cascades Campus Library McDowell Library of Vet Medicine Federal Depository Library Program Make a Gift