My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) Libraries & Affiliates Business & Economics Library in Uris Directions to the Business & Economics Library Directions to the Business & Economics Library From College Walk (the pedestrian boulevard corresponding to W. 116th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue), go up the left (west) side steps of Low Plaza. Continue on the walkway that runs along the west side of the domed Low Library Building. Uris Hall is the building directly behind Low Library. Enter Uris Hall through the front doors. The entrance to the Business & Economics Library is to the left of the elevators. Floorplans for the Business and Economics Library Note: The library is open to Columbia affiliates only. Those without a valid Columbia I.D. should first visit the Library Information Office, first floor of Butler Library, for information on library access and privileges. Business & Economics Library in Uris Today's Hours: Full Schedule » 130 Uris Hall 3022 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7804 E-mail: business@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » | Directions » Related Links Business & Economics Research FAQ Business & Economics Research Guides Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian