Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Printing and Technology Printing and Technology Page featured image content How to print at SU Libraries Page main body content For additional help, visit the Technology Desk on the 1st floor of Bird Library. How to Print at SU Libraries Toggle How to Print from a Libraries Workstation Content Log into a workstation with your NetID and password. Open your document and choose a printer. Choose paper size: 8.5 x 11 (letter) or 11 x 17 (tabloid). Click Print. The printing charge is automatically deducted from your print quota. For a list of Libraries' printer locations, visit the Answers page. Toggle How to Print from your Mac Laptop Content Make sure you’re connected to AirOrangeX, the University's wi-fi network Go to System Preferences > Printers and Scanners. Click the + icon under the Printers List. Once the Add dialog is displayed, select a printer from the network. Check that Use is set to Secure AirPrint. Click Add, then Print your document. When prompted, enter your NetID and password. Toggle How to Print from your PC Laptop Content Make sure you’re connected to AirOrangeX, the University's wi-fi network Download and run the Mobility Print Printer Setup from Papercut On the License Agreement screen, click Next. Select a printer, then click Next. Enter your NetID and password, then click Next. Click Finish to Print your document. Toggle Poster Printing at Bird Library Content For specific directions on using the plotter printer for large format printing at Bird Library, visit the Answers page for step by step instructions. Toggle Software Available Content The Libraries' public workstations and loaner laptops come available with a variety of software, including Adobe, Microsoft, and assistive software, like Read and Write. For a list of software, visit the Answers page. Toggle Account Funds Content Syracuse University and SUNY-ESF students receive a $40 credit at the beginning of each academic year, which you can use for printing at the Libraries. Use Papercut (Syracuse University’s Print Management Software) to check your balance and add funds. Instructions on using this print account, can be found on the University's Print Management Answers page. Library ITS Refunds Policy If a library printer creates poor quality printouts, bring the output to the Technology desk located on the 1st floor of Bird Library, or fill out the refund form online to request a credit on your printing account. Poor quality printouts must be surrendered whenever possible to receive a refund. Refund requests typically take a few business days to process. No Refunds Except as noted above, no refunds are provided from the University's Print Management System. Printouts should be retrieved from the printer immediately. No refund will be given if a printout is left on the printer and reported missing. Incorrectly formatted print jobs (layout, orientation, single v. double sided, copies etc.) will not receive a refund. Students who do not use all of their initial $40 credit will not receive a refund for any balance left on the account at the end of the school year. Students who add money to their printing quota will not receive a refund for any balances left on the account at the end of the school year. All student printing quotas are reset to $40 between the end of the second Summer Session and the beginning of the new academic year. For troubleshooting purposes, all refund requests must be submitted as soon as possible or before the Technology desk closes on the same day your printing issue takes place. Toggle Scanning Content Flatbed Scanning Up to 8.5x11 inches: Available on the first (east side), second and third floor of Bird library and Carnegie library, connected via USB to the public workstations. Instructions on how to use them can be found attached to the scanners or below. Up to 11x17 inches: A single flatbed tabloid scanner, connected via USB to a public workstation, is located on the 4th floor of Bird library by the media viewing/listening area. Copy Machines Scanning Function (up to 11x17 inches) All Xerox copy machines available throughout the libraries have a scanning function with the ability to send directly to any email address or save to a USB flash drive (must be FAT formatted). The scanning function is free but requires a NetID and password (or guest printing account login and password) to login. Microfilm Scanning/Viewing Machines are available on the 3rd floor of Bird library by the stairwell. How to Scan: Visit the Answers page for step by step instructions on how to scan. Toggle Copying Content Self-service copiers are located in Bird library (1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th floor) and Carnegie library (2nd and 3rd floor). The copy machines are able to scan directly to an email address or a USB flash drive free of charge. All copiers currently use Syracuse University’s PaperCut print management system to pay for copies. Syracuse University guests and visitors are able to use their guest printing accounts to login and use the copiers. Cost Black and white 8 1/2" x 11" (letter) - $.04/sheet Black and white 11" x 17" (tabloid) - $.08/sheet Color 8 1/2" x 11" - $.25 single-sided Color 8 1/2" x 11" - $.30 double-sided Color 11" x 17" - $.50 single-sided Color 11" x 17" - $.60 double-sided Toggle Wireless Networking Content For directions on how to connect to AirOrangeX, the University's wireless network, visit the Answers page. Toggle Media Viewing Content Bird Library, 3rd Floor Microfilm, microfiche and microcard viewers/scanners with printing capabilities (Indus SL-Touch, 2 available). Bird Library, 4th Floor Listening stations for LP's (vinyl records). Viewing stations for Blu-ray, DVD and VHS media . Toggle Workstations Content Library Information Technology manages over 130 PC and several Mac workstations in various library locations on campus. Libraries computer workstations require a NetID and password log in and are reserved at all times for those with an SU/ESF ID card or alumni card (SU students, faculty, staff, alumni and spouses/partners/dependents). Any library patron may access the library catalog through quick look-up stations located on floors 1-5 of Bird Library or request access to the government documents. If you have a problem logging into a workstation, please check that your password is correct by visiting SU NetID Services. Bird Library 1st Floor - Center of Bird library 1st floor and across from the Check Out desk 2nd Floor - Next to the circular stairs and east of the current periodicals and newspapers 3rd Floor - Past the service desk, by the stairwell 4th Floor - Near the circular stairs and in the media listening/viewing area (west side, towards Schine) Carnegie Library 2nd Floor - Room 208 3rd Floor - Directly above the 2nd Floor Check Out desk Architecture Reading Room 3rd Floor - In the study room past the service desk Toggle Frequently Asked Questions, Troubleshooting Content If you are still having trouble with printing or technology, or if you have additional questions, visit our Answers page for frequently asked questions and troubleshooting tips. Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.