Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Government Document Depository Collection Users Skip to Main Content Section Menu Library Access Home Faculty/Professional Staff Students University Staff University Affiliates Alumni Visitors Princeton Theological Seminary Institute for Advanced Study Friends of the Princeton University Library Visiting Faculty, Students, and Academic/Professional Staff Princeton Public Library Members Government Document Depository Collection Users Independent Researchers Non-profit Organizations Corporate Borrowers Circulation Policies Course Reserves Limited Access Note PUL is allowing a limited number of visitors with urgent research needs and a connection to the Princeton research community. To submit a request for consideration, please visit the EHS visitor page and complete the form linked on the right. Your sponsor must be a Princeton University faculty member, staff member, or graduate student. Please note that the Library will need to approve this form, not the sponsor's department head. Send completed forms to refdesk@princeton.edu and include the collections that are required to complete on-site research. Allow three business days for review of requests. Special Collections is accepting appointments for non-Princeton researchers on a very limited basis. Visitors interested in researching within Special Collections must first contact the department through their Ask Us! form. Requests to visit Special Collections will only be considered through this form. Princeton University Library houses collections of publications from four governmental entities: the European Union (1964- ), the State of New Jersey (1950- ), the United Nations (1945- ), and the United States Federal Government (1884- ). The collections are the product of signatory agreements by which these four governmental entities deposit their publications at Princeton University free of charge, with the understanding that the general public will be granted reasonable access to them. Access to the Depository Collections by the general public is a major exception to the Library's overall Access Policy, by which free use of library materials is generally restricted to members of the Princeton University Community. Access to Depository Collections entitles a visitor who is unaffiliated with the University to use those publications received through depository agreements only; it does not entitle use of the Library's general collections of books, journals, microforms, datafiles, and other purchased materials. The Depository Collections are available for public use only during specified hours. Libraries other than Firestone with separate subject collections, such as the Lewis Library, may have different hours. Procedures for Use of Depository Collections A visitor interested in using the depository documents collections must first check in with the Access Office in Firestone Library or, when the Access Office is closed, with Library Security. Access Office staff will contact a reference librarian, who will discuss the visitor's research needs and determine whether the question requires depository materials or a different referral. The visitor may be asked to wait in the Access Office if it is necessary for the librarian to confer with others in this process. If requested depository materials are available, the visitor will be provided with a Depository Access Pass and directed to the Information Desk to meet a depository specialist. The Depository Access Pass can be used to leave the Library and return during the day; however, the pass is valid only on and for the day issued, and remains at the Information Desk until the end of the depository visit. Printed matter pertaining to each Depository Collection is available, and assistance in locating and using information will be provided by the reference librarian. Upon completion of the visit, the visitor is asked to notify the depository specialist. Please see the important information provided here to ensure that your visit to the library is productive and successful. Please contact a depository specialist to access the depository collection outside of regular depository hours. Get Help Ask a Librarian Email a Librarian Find Your Subject Librarian Phone Research Guides Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top