Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Harvard Library Visitor Access Harvard’s libraries offer events, exhibits, and programming for the public. Researchers from beyond Harvard may apply for Borrowing and Access cards, as well as use special collections. COVID-19 Updates Open to the Public Special Collections Library Access Cards COVID-19 Guidance Updated May 2, 2022 All libraries and special collections are open to visiting researchers. All visitors must show proof of vaccination and booster. Access Policies for Visiting Researchers Registration Visiting researchers and special borrowers, including those with existing accounts, must schedule an appointment and bring their proof of vaccination and booster to the Access and Borrowing Office, located inside the front entrance of Widener Library, to reactivate access. See Request Library Access. Visiting Houghton Library: Those who are only visiting Houghton Library, may present their ID and proof of vaccination and booster at Houghton Library. Visiting Botany Libraries: Those who are only visiting the Botany Libraries must make an appointment ahead of time by emailing Botany Libraries and present their ID and proof of vaccination to gain entry. Harvard's professional school libraries: Consult their website for access information. In-Person Library Use Guidelines Masks optional: Although it is not required, please consider wearing a face covering while inside a library. Proof of vaccination: All eligible visitors to Harvard's libraries age 12 or older will be required to present proof of vaccination and booster, along with a photo ID for those age 17 and older. See the Harvard Library Vaccination Requirement Policy. University COVID-19 safety training: All visitors must understand and abide by current University policies found in the COVID-19 Safety Awareness Training: Protection/Prevention Practices. If you are ill or have been exposed to an infected person: Visitors must not come to campus if they are ill or if they are exhibiting symptoms. For those that have no COVID symptoms and no known exposure to an infected person, it is okay to participate in in-person activities on campus. Welcome! Visiting a library Interested in using our libraries, but are not a Harvard student, faculty, alums, or staff? You’re in the right place. While our libraries primarily serve the Harvard community, we strive to make our world-class research resources available to as many researchers as we can. There are plenty of opportunities for visitors to experience our collections. Events & Exhibits Many of our events and exhibits are open to the public, and many are virtual. Public Events Many library events are open to the public online. Check the event details for admittance information. Browse Events Exhibits Library exhibits tell the unique stories of our diverse and deep collections. Many are open to the public. Browse Exhibits Tours Browse upcoming library tours. Some tours are open to the public; others are open to Harvard ID holders and their guests. Browse Tours Special Collections and Archives Many of our libraries are home to rare and unique materials that can’t be found elsewhere. Those special collections are available to all researchers, regardless of academic affiliation. Our special collections and archives are open to all without a fee, by appointment. Please contact the holding library to learn more about accessing their special collection items in person. Due to current COVID-19 visitor guidelines (see above), be sure to contact the library, special collection, or archive directly before planning a visit. Lamont Library’s collection of government documents is available to the public. See more about how to use our special collections. Students looking at a rare book in Houghton Library Library Access Cards Library Access Types If you would like to use Harvard’s library materials, including special collections and archives, and you are not a current Harvard student, faculty, or staff, we offer different types of access. Special Collections Harvard Library's special collections and archives are open to all without a fee, by appointment. Please contact the holding library to learn more about accessing their items in person. Library Access Card Access a library’s physical space. You can access reading rooms for consulting general-use in-library materials. Book borrowing and access to restricted stack areas are not included. Use computers in the library space, which gives you access to the full range of our electronic resources. Charges may apply for some. See Request Library Access, below, for details. Library Borrowing Card In addition to the access outlined for Access Card holders, Borrowing Card holders can also borrow materials from our libraries. Loan periods vary depending on your affiliation. Charges apply for some. How to Request Library Access Whether you’re renewing an account or requesting access for the first time, please submit an application in advance. Select your affiliation, below, and fill out the associated application. Once your application has been approved, we’ll contact you to set up an appointment to complete the application process. If you do not see yourself in any of the descriptions, contact the Harvard Library Access and Borrowing Office and we’ll discuss available access options. Harvard Alumni All Harvard alumni are eligible to apply for a Library Borrowing Card, which comes with on-site library access at no charge. Free | Alumni application Research Assistants and Library Proxies If you are working with a Harvard University faculty member, they can sponsor a Library Borrowing Card and submit a request form. Free, expires after 1 year or with end of role | Library Proxy Access Request form Domestic Partners of Harvard Faculty, Staff, and Students Domestic partners and spouses of Harvard faculty, staff and students are eligible for borrowing and access to Harvard’s libraries. You will be asked to show a government-issued ID and a copy or picture of your partner’s HUID. If you and your partner’s last names are different, we ask that you also bring a copy of a lease, utility bill, marriage certificate, or other piece of official mail with both names listed as residing at the same address. Free, expires after 1 year or with end of role | Spouse/Domestic Partner Harvard Library Account Application Harvard-Affiliated Programs and Centers If you are part of a program or center affiliated with Harvard University, you can request a Library Borrowing Card, which comes with full library access at no charge. Free, expires after 1 year or with end of role | Institutions with Agreements Harvard Library Account Application Ivy Plus and BorrowDirect Our partnership with BorrowDirect allows physical access to our libraries to affiliates of fellow Ivy Plus institutions: Brown University, Columbia University, Cornell University, Dartmouth College, Duke University, Johns Hopkins University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Princeton University, Stanford University, University of Chicago, University of Pennsylvania, and Yale University. You will be asked to show a government-issued ID and sign into BorrowDirect with your school credentials. Free, expires May 31 each year | Ivy Plus Harvard Library Account Application Nonprofit Institutions with Harvard Library Agreements Several institutions have direct agreements with Harvard Library to allow library use by their members. If you are not sure whether your institution has an agreement, please contact your benefits office. Library Access Card: Free, expires after 1 year or with end of role Library Borrowing Card: $250 for six months; $450 for 12 months Institutions with Agreements Harvard Library Account Application Non-Harvard Faculty, Doctoral Students, and Librarians/Curators Researchers from other institutions can apply for library access and borrowing. You may qualify if you are faculty, a doctoral student, or a librarian/curator from another university or academic institution. Library Access Card: Free, expires after 1 year or with end of role Library Borrowing Card: $450 for six months; $850 for 12 months Independent Researcher Harvard Library Account Application Independent Researchers If you would like to research using Harvard Library and you do not have a Harvard University affiliation or belong to another organization with an existing library access agreement, you can apply for either a Library Access Card or a Library Borrowing Card. Library Access Card: $50 for 1 month; $100 for 3 months Library Borrowing Card: $450 for six months; $850 for 12 months Senior Citizen rate, Library Borrowing Card: $250 for six months; $450 for 12 months Special Collections access: A card is not required, please contact the individual library to make an appointment. Independent Researcher Harvard Library Account Application Once you have submitted your application, you can schedule an appointment to complete your registration. Harvard Library Access and Borrowing Staff in the Harvard Library Access and Borrowing Office are here to answer your questions about library access and borrowing. See our hours with Widener Library's hours. We are located on the left when you enter Widener Library via Harvard Yard. An accessible entrance is available on the Mass. Ave. side of the building. Tell security you're here to register with Access and Borrowing and they will direct you. Harvard Library Access and Borrowing Widener Library Room 130 Harvard Yard Cambridge, MA 02138 United States Directions email: hl_accessborrowing@harvard.edu Phone number 617-495-4166 Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.