My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) Libraries & Affiliates Butler Library Research Reading Rooms Research Reading Rooms The Research Reading Rooms on the 5th and 6th floors of Butler Library provide access to quiet study space and thematic or regionally focused collections for advanced research. The collections in these spaces are non-circulating. African Studies (Room 607) This non-circulating collection on African history and the humanities is located on the 6th floor of Butler Library, opposite the elevators on the east side of the building. The collection contains an array of selected African studies reference titles standing alongside hundreds of great works of African literature, collected historical documents from Africa, classic ethnographies and travellers' accounts, written transcriptions of Africa's oral heritage—history, epic poetry, folktales, songs, and proverbs—and major contributions in the interpretation of Africa's past and present and of the African diasporas' engagement with the continent. Read more about this collection here. Yuusuf Caruso African Studies Librarian Global Studies caruso@columbia.edu (212) 854-8045 Global Studies - 309 International Affairs American History & Literature (Room 502) The American History and Literature Reading Room, located on the 5th floor of Butler Library, provides researchers with a core collection of primary and secondary source materials for the region now known as the United States. These range in coverage from pre-colonial times up to the recent past. Materials were chosen for their relevance to advanced study. Books from the library of noted scholar and teacher of American History Alan Edward Heimert (MA, Columbia 1950) constitute an important component of the collection. John L. Tofanelli Research Collections & Services Librarian Humanities & History jt628@columbia.edu (212) 854-4356 Butler Library - 309 Butler Library Ancient & Medieval Studies (Room 603) The Ancient and Medieval Studies Reading Room, located on the 6th floor of Butler Library, provides researchers with an extensive selection of primary texts as well as commentaries, concordances and reference works useful in study of these texts. The collection is not comprehensive. The research collections supporting these fields remain primarily in the Butler Stacks, but every effort is made to provide a reading room environment that is conducive to work in these fields. Jeffrey Wayno Collection Services Librarian The Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary jmw2202@columbia.edu (212) 851-5608 The Burke Library - Union Theological Seminary Comparative Literature & Society (Room 615) The Comparative Literature & Society Reading Room, located on the 6th floor of Butler Library, features more than 2,000 volumes that support the study of literature and cultural expression across national, linguistic, and disciplinary boundaries. From canonical texts in critical theory and literary analysis to reference works like encyclopedias, dictionaries, and handbooks, this non-circulating collection enables scholars to instantly consult the textual output of the world's major thinkers and theorists. This reading room is a quiet space for contemplation and writing, a distillation of the exhaustive collection available in the Butler Stacks. Meredith J. Levin Western European Humanities Librarian Humanities & History mjl2209@columbia.edu (212) 854-5802 Butler Library - 309 l Butler Library Early Modern/Modern Europe (Room 504) The Early Modern/Modern Europe Reading Room can be found on the 5th floor of Butler Library. The collection comprises primary source anthologies, general reference works, specialized dictionaries and encyclopedias, and handbooks for historians. The 1,500 volumes in this reading room enable scholars to explore the history, culture, and politics of Western Europe from the Renaissance to the 20th century. The collection does not circulate and is intended to facilitate on-site reading, writing, and reflection on the European story, along with the collections in other reading rooms and in the Butler Stacks. Meredith J. Levin Western European Humanities Librarian Humanities & History mjl2209@columbia.edu (212) 854-5802 Butler Library - 309 l Butler Library Edward Said (Room 616) Named in memory of Edward W. Said (1935-2003), an internationally renowned Palestinian-American academic, author, educator, public intellectual, and a member of Columbia’s faculty from 1963-2003, the Edward Said Reading Room houses a collection of around 2,000 volumes from Said’s personal library. The collection reflects Said’s wide-ranging and eclectic interests, and spans classical literature, music, fine arts, politics, religion, and history. Edward Said’s papers are housed at RBML. Kaoukab A. Chebaro Head, Global Studies Global Studies kc3287@columbia.edu (212) 854-8767 Lehman Social Sciences Library - 309 International Affairs Islamic Studies (Room 602) The Islamic Studies Reading Room contains some 4,500 non-circulating items on various facets of Islam and Islamic Studies. This core non-circulating collection features sourcebooks and introductions to Islam, in addition to reference texts on Islam and Islamic societies and cultures. Canonical classical and secondary works on topics related to Islam are also available here, e.g. Qur’anic exegesis and commentary (Tafsir), Hadith and Sunna, Islamic Historiography, Islamic Law, Islamic science and philosophy, and Sufism. The materials are mostly in Arabic, Persian, Turkish, and Urdu as well as in English: there are also some works in German and French. Read more about this collection here. Peter Magierski Middle East & Islamic Studies Librarian Global Studies pm2650@columbia.edu (212) 854-3995 Global Studies - 309 International Affairs Latin American Studies (Room 503) The Latin American Studies Room is a non-circulating collection on the 5th floor located in front of the east elevators. The collection includes reference works (including dictionaries and encyclopedias), published anthologies of historical documents and canonical texts frequently used in reading lists. Sócrates Silva Latin American & Iberian Studies Librarian Global Studies ss5000@columbia.edu (212) 854-1679 Global Studies - 309 International Affairs Moral & Political Theory (Room 504) The Moral and Political Theory Reading Room, located on the 5th floor of Butler Library, provides researchers with a core collection of primary and secondary source materials in the history of Western philosophy, with a particular emphasis on the study of moral and political philosophy, ethics, religion, law, and related fields of theory. The collection ranges in coverage from the ancient period up to the recent past, though the main emphasis is on thinkers and movements from the Enlightenment to the present. Most materials are in English, but some are in other European languages. Ian Beilin Research Collections & Services Librarian Humanities & History igb4@columbia.edu (212) 853-0627 Butler Library - 309 Butler Library Papyrology & Epigraphy (Room 604) The Papyrology and Epigraphy Reading Room, on the 6th floor of Butler Library, offers primary source collections, journals, and important secondary resources of use to papyrologists and epigraphists in the University's Classics and Ancient History Departments. Jeffrey Wayno Collection Services Librarian The Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary jmw2202@columbia.edu (212) 851-5608 The Burke Library - Union Theological Seminary South Asian Studies (Room 601) The South Asian Studies reading room is a non-circulating collection that includes more than 1500 items, with emphasis on major reference works (including dictionaries and encyclopedias), primary source publications, collected works of important authors, and key texts on South Asian history, literature, culture, and society. The primary focus of the collection is on the arts, humanities, history, literature, linguistics and religion. Gary Hausman South Asian Studies Librarian Global Studies gjh2119@columbia.edu (212) 854-8401 Global Studies - 309 International Affairs Butler Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Butler Library 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 E-mail: butler@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » | Directions » Spaces in Butler Library Research Reading Rooms Rare Book & Manuscript Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Studio@Butler Periodicals & Microforms Reading Room First-Generation, Low-Income Partnership Library Related Links Research & Topic Guides Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian