Off-Campus Access | Library A–Z | Hours & Locations Search: Search BruKnow Library Website WorldCat Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Brown University Library Collections Brown University Archives & History Collections Select a different subject group Africana Alcohol and Addiction Studies American Culture and Society Art and Architecture Asian Studies Author Collections Book Arts Brown University Archives & History Business Children's Literature Disability Studies Early Printed Books Economics Education European Studies Fine and Decorative Arts Gender and Sexuality Studies Graphic Arts History (Non-United States) History (United States) History of Medicine History of Science, Mathematics, Technology Iberia, Latin America, and Latino Indigenous Studies Language & Literature, Non-Western LGBTQ Literature (Non-United States) Literature (United States) Magic and Occult Manuscript Collections Middle Eastern Studies Military History and Iconography Museum Objects Collections Performing Arts Political Science Printing and Publishing History Race and Ethnicity Religion Rhode Island/Local Interest Russia and Eastern Europe Science Fiction and Fantasy South Asia Women Return to Collections A to Z Index 1793 Library The Library of Brown University, as represented in the Catalog published in 1793. 2,173 titles are listed. List and published catalog available. ...more information Africana Studies / Rites and Reason Theatre The dates for the Africana Studies / Rites and Reason Theatre collection ranges from 1970 to 2006. This collection consists of nine series which focus on the growth and development of not only the Department of Africana Studies, but on the growth of the Rites and Reason Theatre. ...more information Annmary Brown Memorial In 1948, Brown University assumed ownership of the Annmary Brown Memorial. The Memorial, built by Civil War General Rush C. Hawkins and named in honor of his wife, contained an internationally know incunabula collection as well as old master paintings and drawings, Revolutionary and Civil War manuscripts and documents, plus the personal correspondence of its founder. These incunabula along with others in Special Collections make up one of the largest collections of 15th-century printed books owned by an American university. In addition to incunables, the collection contains sizeable manuscript holdings relating to the American Revolutionary and Civil Wars, and to the 17th-century New England witchcraft phenomenon. There are also some medieval manuscript books and documents, including papal letters. The books and manuscripts are now kept in the John Hay Library. ...more information Annmary Brown Memorial Library The Annmary Brown Memorial, at 21 Brown Street in Providence, RI, was built in 1907 by Rush C. Hawkins (1831-1920) as a memorial to his deceased wife Annmary Brown Hawkins (1837-1903). The Memorial was designed as a tomb for the couple (both are interred there), and as a private library to house the Hawkins' collection of incunabula, paintings, manuscripts, books authored by or written about individuals with the surname of Hawkins, travel books, bibliographies, biographies, standard histories, books on printing wood engravings, and volumes on the early history of printing. This collection contains the records about the construction and maintenance of the building, documentation about the books and paintings collected by Hawkins, and records about the operation of the Memorial. It also includes a volume of minutes for the New York Dispensary for the Diseases of the Throat and Chest for which Rush Hawkins was a Trustee. Researchers can also find documentation about the Civil War swords presented to Rush Hawkins which were stolen from the Memorial and later recovered ...more information Anthony (Richard H.) Richard H. Anthony was a Providence, Rhode Island native and Brown University graduate, class of 1925. His distinguished career included working as a journalist in Paris for the European edition of the New York Herald Tribune, where he covered the landings of Charles E. Lindburgh and Richard E. Byrd on their respective transatlantic flights in 1927. These papers include letters, family memorabilia, and a collection of autographs of Richard E. Byrd, and co-pilots Bernt Balchen, Bertand B. Acosta and George O. Noville, who accompanied him on his historic flight from New York to the coast of Normandy on July 1, 1927. ...more information Archibald (Raymond Clare) The Raymond C. Archibald papers, covering the years 1911 to 1955, contain about 1800 items of correspondence, notes on research, and some manuscripts of articles and reviews. Reflected are Professor Archibald's concerns for the development of a comprehensive mathematical library at Brown University, his efforts on behalf of the Mary Mellish Archibald memorial Library at Mount Allison College, and his work as editor of Mathematical Tables and other Aids to Computations. The collection also contains some professional correspondence and material which touches upon Archibald's historical research. Because Professor Archibald stated in his will that his personal papers be destroyed upon his death, little of his professional correspondence is extant. ...more information Bailey (William Whitman) These papers of William Whitman Bailey (1843-1914), Brown University professor of botany, consist of correspondence, diaries (20 vols), manuscripts, addresses, poems, drawings, paintings, sketches, notebooks, and scrapbooks dating from 1856 to 1914, that document the professional activities and family life of botanist William Whitman Bailey. In his letters, Bailey wrote about his reading and other literary pursuits; his publications; plants and botany; professional activities at Brown University; West Point; and excursions in New England, including Mt. Wachusett; Conway; and Cumberland, R.I. Botanical specimens that Bailey found are described in some letters. Some early letters were written while he was a schoolboy at the University Grammar School in Providence. Botany is documented in the Manuscripts series through lecture notes, essays on flowers, sketches of specimens, and plant analysis. Other topics covered in the Manuscripts series include Bailey's private library, reading, and reminiscences of West Point. The Manuscripts series includes addresses, essays, notebooks, and scrapbooks. Poems written by Bailey are in the Letters by William Whitman Bailey series and in the Manuscripts series. The Botanical Sketches series (ca. 5 linear ft.) includes botanical sketches, drawings, and paintings that appear to have been created in various combinations of pen and colored ink, pen and watercolor, and pencil and colored pencil. ...more information Bakst (M. Charles) These papers date from 1927-2009 and include the personal papers and materials of Merrill Charles Bakst, Brown '66 and journalist for the Providence Journal. Includes manuscripts, correspondence, notebooks, ephemera, photographs, audiocassettes and videotapes related to his student days at Brown and his career as a reporter and columnist. ...more information Baptist Holdings in the area of religious history that reflect the University's Baptist origins. Included are the papers of many clergymen, among them Roger Williams, Isaac Backus, Samuel Jones, Thomas Ustick, Jones Very, missionaries (Adoniram Judson and Josiah Nelson Cushing) and several presidents of Brown. The records for the following churches are also available: First Baptist Church in Swansea, MA*; the Baptist Church in Warren, RI*; Shawomet Baptist Church in Warwick, RI; Meshanticut Baptist Church in Cranston, RI; Roger Williams Baptist Church in Providence, RI; Niantic Baptist Church in Westerly, RI, and the Arkwright and Fiskeville Baptist Church in Scituate, RI. There is also a sizeable collection of Baptist periodicals. *PLEASE NOTE: Records of the First Baptist Church of Swansea and the First Baptist Church of Warren are deposit collections, and each church retains ownership and control over its own records. Accordingly, permission is required from the appropriate church before either collection can be made available for research. Please email manuscripts@brown.edu or hay@brown.edu for further details and contact information. ...more information Barbour (Clarence A.) The Clarence A. Barbour papers contain many letters relating to Barbour's nomination as President of Brown University and his nine-month trip to Asia in 1931 and 1932. Also included are letters and poems written by Florence Newell Barbour about her experiences in Asia with her husband. ...more information Berube (Kenneth) (Class of 1966) Vietnam oral history Kenneth Allen Berube (1943-1967), Class of 1966, is honored on Panel 24E, Row 99 of the Vietnam Veterans Memorial, in Washington, D.C. and on Brown University’s War Memorial, installed on the Ruth J. Simmons Quadrangle, near Soldier's Arch. This collection contains photocopies of official papers and low-quality images documenting Berube’s military career, and personal recollections of two Marines who served with him in Vietnam. ...more information Books at Brown Books at Brown was, from 1951 through 1998, the scholarly publication of the Friends of the Brown University Library. Published occasionally, issues of BOOKS AT BROWN included both informational overviews on the Library's specialized collections and original scholarship utilizing those collections. In the 1980s, it became the practice to produce issues organized around a particular collection or marking seminal events. Books at Brown is no longer published. The entire run has been digitized, a full print run is available for consultation at the John Hay Library and selected back issues are available at the cost of 10 dollars per issue. Contact: hay@brown.edu for further information. ...more information Brown (Ben W.) These papers consist of notebooks, manuscripts, speeches and addresses, and correspondence documenting the teaching career of Ben W. Brown at Brown University. He was professor of English, theatre and public speaking, as well as Director of the Sock and Buskin, from 1921 to 1955. ...more information Brown (Charles Wilson) collection of Brown and Wilson family The Charles Wilson Brown collection of Brown and Wilson family papers contain correspondence, manuscripts, and photographs related to Lanta Wilson Smith (Charles Brown's aunt), Rev. Henry Wheaton Brown (Charles Brown's father) and Rev. William Jones Wilson (Charles Brown's grandfather). The correspondence is largely written to or by Lanta Wilson Smith's and includes some of her poetry; the remaining correspondence is written by or related to Rev. William Jones Wilson. Autobiographies of both Rev. Brown and Rev. Wilson can be found in the collection as can parish programs and related clippings. The photographs are of Maine churches and Rev. Wilson and his wife. ...more information Brown (Harcourt) Papers of Harcourt Brown (1900-1990), professor of French at Brown University from 1937-1969. Includes materials from his years at Brown, correspondence, french play materials, and Annals of Science materials ...more information Brown (John Nicholas), (1900-1979) Personal and professional papers of John Nicholas Brown, son of John Nicholas Brown (1867-1900) and Natalie Bayard Brown, Nephew of Harold Brown (1869-1900) and husband of Anne Seddon Kinsolving Brown. The papers comprise a wealth of material on the visual arts, art collections and collecting activities, and public service at the state, national and international levels, as well as the history of Brown University and the State of Rhode Island during the twentieth century. ...more information Brown ACLU Collection includes two 3-ring notebooks containing information regarding the Committee to Review Non-Academic Discipline, Fall 2001 and one accordion binder. One 3-ring notebook contains discipline information from other universities. The other 3-ring notebook contains list of committee members, copies of previous Brown policies and reports, a copy of the Report on Sexual Misconduct (April 1997), memos, Brown ACLU proposal for disciplinary system reform, report drafts, and minutes and notes of meetings. The accordion binder contains Brown ACLU minutes (1998-2000), files regarding non-academic discipline at Brown, and files concerning the David Horowitz controversy. Brown ACLU Minutes, 1998-2000 are restricted. Permission to review these minutes must be granted from the Brown ACLU president. ...more information Brown Alumnae Club of Kent County This collection contains administrative and historical records of the Brown Alumnae Club of Kent County. Materials date from 1987-2018 and include bylaws, Presidents' binders, secretary's books, photographs from events, and a scrapbook. ...more information Brown University Archives The Archives collection contains copies of the official records and publications of the University, dating from 1763, along with the papers of many of its faculty, departments, and officers. A vital part of the collection are the records student groups and organizations. The Archives also encompass papers of Brown and Pembroke alumni/ae. The collections include Brown theses and dissertations, as well as printed, manuscript, graphic, and audiovisual material about the history of Brown University. ...more information Brown University Archives - Biographical Files Contains over 50,000 biographical files on alumni, faculty and administration members, and some staff members. These files contain vital statistics forms from the Alumni Records office, and in most cases include newspaper clippings, curricula vitae, bibliographies, and correspondence. ...more information Brown University Archives - Photograph This collection contains views of Brown University, including buildings, events and activities, student organizations, group shots of department members, reunion classes and fraternities, and faculty members, alumni and visitors. ...more information Brown University Archives - Prints This collection contains prints and etchings, mainly of Brown University buildings, but also includes portraits of faculty members and alumni, broadsides, athletic cartoons and postcards of Brown University buildings and events. This collections includes the Helen Grose drawings and Tilden Thurber prints of the Brown University campus. ...more information Brown University Archives - Scrapbooks Scrapbooks kept by students, faculty members and alumni, containing photographs, prints, drawings and newspaper clippings of university events, birth and death announcements, and ephemera such as invitations, announcements, brochures, and programs. Most of these scrapbooks include memorabilia such as matchbooks, greeting cards, travel itineraries, postcards, tickets to events and dance cards. Includes a collection of scrapbooks of newspaper clippings kept by University Librarian Reuben Guild, which chronicles events at Brown from 1851 to 1938. ...more information Brown University Archives - Theatre This collection contains theatre programs, photographs, posters, museum objects, announcements and newspaper clippings of productions mounted by various theatrical groups at Brown University, including Hammer and Tongs, Sock and Buskin, Komians, Brownbrokers, Rites and Reason, and Production Workshop. 1872 to the present. ...more information Brown University Archives - World War I Correspondence Letters from Brown University alumni and students in the armed services, written to persons at the University including President William H. P. Faunce, Assistant to the President, Thomas B. Appleget, Professor James Quayle Dealey, and Dean Otis E. Randall. ...more information Brown University Corporation Committee Brown University Corporation records related to various standing and ad hoc committees. Materials include statutes of the Corporation, papers and reports, meeting notes, and memoranda. Materials date from circa 1948-1992. ...more information Brown University Dept. of Mathematics Meeting Minutes This collection consists of minutes of meetings held by the Brown University Department of Mathematics during the years 1915-1922 and 1930-1939. The minutes include discussions regarding the department's policies and rules as well as information related to student affairs, curriculum development, faculty appointments, fellowships, examinations, the Mathematics Club and the honor list. ...more information Brown University Graduate School registration The Brown University Graduate School registration records contain registration records dated from circa 1900 to 1926. They are arranged alphabetically by the student's surname. ...more information Brown University Herbarium Collection of pamphlets, some annotated by Herbarium staff, compiled over the course of nine decades by the now defunct Brown University Herbarium, founded in 1877 by William Whitman Bailey, Prof. of Botany. ...more information Brown University women's athletics ephemera The Brown University women's athletics ephemera dates from 1970-1979 and contains calendars, booklets, pamphlets, a poster, and a t-shirt, for women's intercollegiate basketball, field hockey, ice hockey, softball, swimming, and tennis. ...more information Brown University. President's Office. Survey of alumni. A collection of responses to an alumni survey sent out by the Office of the President in July 1987. ...more information Brown-Tougaloo Exchange The Brown-Tougaloo Exchange records contain correspondence, reports, financial data, grant proposals, teaching materials, tape recordings and press clippings produced by or about Tougaloo College and its exchange program with Brown University. The collection also includes financial and documentary material about the U.S. Higher Education Act of 1965, especially its Title III, Institutional Aid. ...more information Buc (Nancy L.) This collection consists of the papers of Nancy L. Buc, a 1965 graduate of Brown University, an attorney and the first woman Chief Counsel for the Food the Drug Administration. The collection documents Buc's personal and professional life with a particular focus on her career in government in Washington, DC, and her service on the Corporation of Brown University. Materials include biographical information, correspondence, conference material, speeches, writings, subject files, print material, photographs, and electronic records dating from 1950-2015. ...more information Canner (Carol) This collection contains 18 black and white photographs of Pembroke College students on campus and a copy of "Pembroke Magazine" which belonged to Carol Canner, Brown University class of 1959. Materials date from 1956-1959. ...more information Carley (Michael J.) (Class of 1962) Vietnam Oral History This collection contains biographical information about Michael John Carley (Brown University Class of 1962), who was killed in action (KIA 670227) while copiloting a helicopter mission in the Vietnam War. Carley had flown 320 missions, entitling him to 16 Air Medals. A large part of the collection is in the form of an oral history and other recollections by his widow, Connie Worthington (Brown University/Pembroke Class of 1968). Worthington talks about their days as students at Brown University, Carley’s pilot training, his experiences in Vietnam and his memorial services, as part of the Vietnam Oral History Collections. There are also recollections about Mike Carley from his U.S.M.C. comrades from military-related sources and from a reunion with Connie, son Michael Carley, Jr. and the surviving members of Mike Carley's [Sr.] squadron. Includes a published book by Mike's brother, Richard Carley, titled "Growing up on the farm: a Sharon Mountain story" which includes historical recollections of the town of Sharon, Connecticut, and a remembrance of Mike. ...more information Chinn (Susan) Documents collected and used by Susan Chinn during her time as an employee of Massachusetts Fair Share whose function is grass-roots community organizing for low and moderate income people for the state of Massachusetts. The collection includes training manuals, Fair Share publications, an essay on the history of the organization, and documentation about the internal workings of the organization. Of particular note is a letter written by Susan Chinn in 1979 describing her experience being hired for Fair Share and her first weeks of work in the community of Springfield, MA. ...more information Civil War Manuscripts Comprises more than 26 collections (more than 2,000 letters in all) covering the period from 1858 through 1879. Includes correspondence, diaries, photographs, prints and graphics and other related materials pertaining to all aspects of the Civil War, from the lives of enlisted Union soldiers and their families back home, to camp life and battlefield medicine, and the political issues that gripped the nation. ...more information Cohen (Robert F., Jr.) The Robert F. Cohen, Jr. papers relate to his activist work as a student at Brown from 1964-1968, and as a community organizer in Providence and other Rhode Island communities, and New York City around welfare rights, housing discrimination and education between 1968-1972. The collection contains original materials created in the context of this work, including press releases, research notes, minutes of meetings, leaflets, and other organizing materials, as well as news clippings covering the actual events. There is also an extensive collection of publications from progressive organizations. ...more information Committee on Diversity The Visiting Committee on Diversity files contain reports on the committee's findings at Brown, demographic statistics of Brown, and correspondence. The files date from 1983 to 2000, with the bulk of the material dating from 1997 to 2000. ...more information Community Organizer Genealogy Project oral history interview The Community Organizer Genealogy Project was a special project of Center for Community Change to document the development of community organizing, the development of individual organizers and the connections among organizers, organizations and networks. They conducted oral history interviews with 100 individuals and collected biographical data on community organizers throughout the United States from 2008-2010. ...more information Community Organizing Organized in 2006 by Brown alumni Bob Cohen (1968), Jim Dickson (1968), and Ken Galdston (1968), and co-founded with the Swearer Center for Public Service, the COA comprises collection of archival and manuscript papers of Brown alumni and students engaged in public service for the betterment of communal life in the United States through NGOs. ...more information Cserr (Helen F.) This collection contains the personal and professional papers of Helen F. Cserr, Brown University Professor of Physiology from 1970 to 1993 and scholar of the anatomy and mechanism of the human brain. A notable woman in science, Cserr also made history in 1975 when she joined Lamphere v. Brown University - a class action sex discrimination suit - when she was unjustly denied tenure. In a landmark settlement, Cserr and fellow plaintiffs prevailed and Cserr was awarded retroactive tenure in 1978. The collection includes biographical information, personal and professional correspondence, teaching materials, writings, laboratory research, and legal files stemming from the case and dating from 1965 to 1994. ...more information Curtis (Minerva G.) diaries A collection of 34 leather-bound diaries, ranging from 1900 to 1941, recording the daily activities of Minerva Greenwood Curtis, a grade-school teacher in Providence, Rhode Island. The collection also includes an address book, a notebook, a loose, hand-written recipe and a newspaper clipping. ...more information Damon (S. Foster) Festival The S. Foster Damon Festival papers consists of approximately 50 items from 1967-1968 relating to the 75th birthday party of S. Foster Damon and the S. Foster Damon Festival at Brown University. S. Foster Damon was an American poet, William Blake scholar, Brown University professor of English (1927-1963), and curator of the Harris Collection, Brown University Library (1930-1963). ...more information Dealey (James Quayle) photographs of China trip This collection consists of 110 photographs taken on Professor James Quayle Dealey's trip to China and Shanghai College in 1920-1921 as part of the "Brown-in-China" program. Also includes an index to the photographs and some background information on the trip. Dealey graduated from Brown University in 1890 and served as professor of social and political science from 1895-1928. ...more information Dean of the College Files The Dean of the College files contains office files dated from 1939 to 1986. The series are arranged chronologically, with some overlapping. Within each series the materials are arranged alphabetically by topic. The topics include student activities and rules, fraternities, athletics and other issues that were the responsibility of the Dean of the College ...more information Denison (Frederic) Baptist Biograpies The Denison Collection consist of letters, manuscripts, and printed matter that contain biographical information about individual Baptists in Connecticut, Rhode Island and Massachusetts. ...more information Dexter (Robert C. and Elisabeth A.) Records and personal papers of sociologist and Unitarian minister Robert Cloutman Dexter (Class of 1912) and his wife, the noted historian Elisabeth Anthony Dexter. An important focus within the collection is the significant role played by the Dexters -- co-founders of the Unitarian Service Committee with Rev. Waitstill and Martha Sharp in 1937 -- in working to expedite the release of war refugees from Nazi-occupied Europe between 1938 and 1944. The collection also includes personal writings by the Dexters, as well as much information on the history of the Anthony family. ...more information Dickson (James C.) These papers document the career of James C. Dickson (Class of 1968) as an activist and organizer for disabled individuals, primarily with the VOTE! 2000 Campaign, an effort to increase the number of voters with disabilities. Includes materials Dickson used in his efforts to increase the voting rights of disabled persons and their access to polling places. The materials contain information on poll accessibility, black voters, gay and lesbian voters, voting statistics, the motor voter law, election reforms, methods of voting, and the registration of potential voters when they apply for food stamps, Medicaid or a driver's license. Also consists of material documenting other organizing efforts involving the rights of children, especially children with disabilities, and the medical care of the elderly and people with disabilities. ...more information Dixon (Nathan Fellows) Family The Nathan Fellows Dixon family papers consist of letters, legal documents, personal and political memorabilia and photographs relating to a Westerly, Rhode Island, family of great prominence in state and federal politics during the 19th century. The majority of the collection represents the domestic and political lives of three generations of men named Nathan Fellows Dixon, all of whom graduated from Brown University and went on to serve in the United States Congress. ...more information Drowne Family In 1940, the personal library of botanist and physician Dr. Solomon Drowne, Class of 1773, plus over 1,000 documents and letters relating to members of the Drowne family (1770 through 1940) were moved from Mt. Hygeia, Dr. Drowne's home in Foster, Rhode Island, to Brown. This fine example of an 18th century American private library is preserved intact within Special Collections. ...more information Ekstrom (Ruth B.) This collection consists of the papers of Ruth B. Ekstrom, education testing researcher and early woman member of the Brown Corporation. The collection documents Ekstrom's student life, career, and participation in establishing the Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women at Brown University. Materials include correspondence, clippings, Pembroke College ephemera, subject files, and published works by Ekstrom, dating from 1924-1988. ...more information Elliott (Maud Howe) Correspondence (mostly dating between 1890 and 1940), manuscripts, lectures and scrapbooks of a Newport-based literary figure who was the daughter of the poet Julia Ward Howe and activist Samuel Gridley Howe, and wife of the artist John Elliott. The collection includes unpublished manuscripts for Elliott's memoirs "Afternoon Tea" and "Memories of Eighty Years." ...more information Farnham The Farnham Archive constitutes a system for describing and accessing collections with materials pertaining to women within the special collections housed at the John Hay Library. Accessed through the printed Research Guide, the Farnham Archive pulls together substantial holdings of all varieties in the Hay Library that document women's history. ...more information Faunce (William Herbert Perry) The William Herbert Perry Faunce papers contain outgoing and incoming correspondence, writings, diaries, and reprints of publications. The writings include poems, sermons, speeches, and essays. The material is dated from 1845 to 1968. ...more information Fisher (Rudolph) Rudolph Fisher (Class of 1919) was a Providence native, a medical doctor specializing in radiology and a leading figure in the Harlem Renaissance of the 1920s and 1930s. His papers primarily contain various drafts and published copies of twenty-six of his short stories and novels, as well as book reviews and essays. The collection also contains correspondence, publicity materials, personal papers, family papers and newsclippings. Materials cover Fisher's life from 1919 to his death in 1934, as well as the work on behalf of Fisher done by his sister, Pearl, until 1983. ...more information Frost (Edwin Collins) and William Henry Frost This collection, dating from 1890 to 1941, consists of letters addressed to both Edwin Collins Frost (1867-1956) and William Henry Frost (1863-1902) and a small autograph collection. Edwin Collins Frost was an assistant and instructor of rhetoric at Brown University from 1895 to 1898 and the cataloguer of Marsden J. Perry's Shakespeare Collection from 1901 to 1907. William Henry Frost joined the New York Tribune in 1887 as a reporter and drama critic and was the author of four books for children. ...more information Gleeson (Alice Collins) The Alice Collins Gleason papers consist of scripts and preparation sheets for radio plays about early Rhode Island history written for elementary and junior high schools in Rhode Island. The plays date from 1935-1937. ...more information Gorton (Arlene E.) The Arlene E. Gorton Files include memos, publications, and personal notes dated from 1938 to 1995, with many dated from 1992-1995. It contains materials pertaining to women's athletics and Title IX hearings at Brown. ...more information Green (Eleanor Burges) These papers contain correspondence relating to Eleanor Burges Green's support of Pembroke College, her role in organizing a memorial service to Dean Lida Shaw King who died in 1932, and the publication and distribution of two books paying tribute to Dean King. Additional materials include a draft of a Rhode Island Society for the Collegiate Education of Women resolution and correspondence with the Association of Collegiate Alumnae. ...more information Green (T.F.) T.F. Green (class of 1887) was at different times a lawyer with Green, Hinckley and Allen and with Green, Curran, and Hart. He was an instructor in law at Brown University and served as Governor of Rhode Island. The collection consists of personal and professional correspondence; legal case files; financial files; family history; political files ...more information Hawkins (Rush) The Rush Hawkins collection (1750-1951(bulk 1830-1917)) contains personal, family, financial, and military correspondence and documents; photographs; and a variety of museum objects ranging from dinnerware and household items to clothing and personal accessories belonging to the Hawkins and Brown families. Most of the collection reflects the life and interests of Hawkins himself, with some items related to his wife Annmary Brown Hawkins and her family. Included in the papers are two significant sub-collections of correspondence: a collection of antebellum historical letters and documents from earlier generations of the Brown family, as well as individual letters from Thomas Jefferson, Nathaniel Greene, Edgar Allan Poe, and Napoleon I; and a collection of Civil War-related correspondence and documents that contains records of Hawkins' Zouaves and much Confederate material, including a subseries of Jefferson Davis's communications to the Senate of the Confederate States. ...more information Heffner (Ray L.) Papers Consists of correspondence, memoranda, minutes, financial papers, reports, and other materials dating from 1966 to 1969. The materials document the history of Brown University and Ray Lorenzo Heffner's term as president. ...more information Herlihy (David) These papers represent the intellectual and professional corpus of medieval historian, and Brown University professor, David Herlihy. Herlihy is considered a pioneer in the use of computers to analyze historical data to extrapolate socioeconomic trends and their impact on life during the middle ages. The collection includes Herlihy's research notebooks, notes, computer code books, pre-published and un-published drafts of articles and monographs, his Ph.D. dissertation, reviews of his publications, lecture notes and teaching materials, professional correspondence, papers documenting professional activities, speeches and addresses, photographs, and miscellaneous personal ephemera and papers. ...more information Hornig (Donald F.) Papers Consists of subject files, dating from 1970 to 1976, that document the period during which Donald F. Hornig was president of Brown University. ...more information Howard (Jean E.) Papers of Jean E. Howard, Columbia University scholar of early modern literature, the history of drama, and former chair of the Pembroke Center Associates Council. Papers include correspondence, drafts, notes, and research material relating to Howard's education, scholarly writings, and publications. ...more information Howe, William D. The William D. Howe Collection contains the financial-related documents received and written by William D. Howe. The collection contains financial memorandums, reports, and budgeting plans for the years 1976-1990. ...more information Hunt (E. Howard) The collection comprises correspondence between E. Howard Hunt (Brown University, Class of 1940), W. Chesley Worthington (Brown University, Class of 1923), Bruce M. Bigelow (Brown University, Class of 1924), and Elmer M. Blistein (Brown University, Class of 1942). The correspondence with Worthington and Bigelow chiefly dates from Hunt's military service during and immediately following World War II. The bulk of the collection comprises correspondence between Hunt and Blistein, commencing in 1969 when Blistein asked Hunt to speak at a retirement dinner honoring I.J. Kapstein, and continuing through 1993, the year of Blistein's death. The two wrote frequently, if irregularly, on wide-ranging topics including personal and professional news, reminiscences, and their mutual affiliation with Brown University. Materials include typescript and autograph correspondence, postcards, and clippings. ...more information Jenckes (Thomas Allen) One box, chiefly correspondence to Thomas Allen Jenckes, Congressional Representative from Rhode Island, about legal matters and legislative affairs for the period of 1837 to 1870. ...more information Jones (Samuel) These papers consist primarily of correspondence from James Manning, first president of Brown University, discussing issues relating to the founding of the college, such as fundraising, the charter, and the use of University Hall as barracks by the United States government during the American Revolutionary War. ...more information Kahn (Coppelia) Papers of Coppelia Kahn, Professor Emerita of English at Brown University and scholar of Shakespeare, Early Modern English literature, and feminist literary theory. Papers consist of administrative files, conference materials, teaching materials, and draft writings dating from 1971 to 2019. ...more information Keely (George Washington) These papers primarily consist of correspondence concerning events leading to the resignation of President Asa Messer and the educational developments in Providence between 1829 and 1833. ...more information Keeney (Barnaby C.) Papers Consists of correspondence; manuscripts; speeches; notes; lecture notes and sylabuses; minutes; printed materials including clippings, programs, and serials; and a few photographs, dating from 1936 to 1980 although the bulk dates from the 1940s to 1966. The collection documents the career of Barnaby C. Keeney, especially his tenure as president of Brown University ...more information Kowalski (Barry F.) (Class of 1966) Vietnam oral history This collection contains the oral history interview of Barry Kowalski, Class of 1966, by Professor Beth Taylor of Brown University for the Vietnam Veterans Archive collection and related documents and objects. The interview was by telephone, on February 21, 2011. The interview draws on Barry Kowalski’s recollections of his years at Brown (1962 to 1966, graduating with a B.A. in Political Science), and his military training and experiences in Vietnam. He enlisted in the United States Marine Corps in the fall of 1966, and attended the Officer Candidate School in Quantico, Virginia before receiving his commission. He wanted a non-combat position as a transport, communications, or supply officer—Military Operations Specialists (MOS), but he and his whole class were given commissions as infantry officers. He was in Vietnam from November 1967 - Summer 1968. Barry was stationed at Camp Lejeune, N.C. for his second and final year of service. There are some recollections about his return to the United States during the war era. In 1973, Barry earned his JD from Catholic University Law School. Since 1980, he has been a lawyer for the Criminal Section of the Civil Rights Division of the Department of Justice. He has helped prosecute cases including the Rodney King beating and the last Department of Justice investigation of the Martin Luther King Assassination. ...more information Ladd Observatory Correspondences, articles, scrapbooks, course material, photographs, offprints, newspaper clippings, etc. Includes correspondence, professional papers and photographs of and relating to the research and teaching of Brown University astronomers Winslow Upton (founding director of Ladd Observatory), Charles Hugh Smiley, and Clinton Harvey Currier. The collection includes a number of historic astronomical instruments, including sextants, octants, and an azimuth. The Papers of Charles H. Smiley, located in the Brown University Archives, form a closely related collection. ...more information Lamphere (Louise) In 1975, after being denied tenure at Brown University and unsuccessfully pursuing an appeals process, Louise Lamphere sued the college in a landmark class-action case that charged Brown with sex discrimination. Following settlement, Lamphere would earn tenure at Brown before accepting another tenured position in New Mexico. Today Lamphere is a Distinguished Professor of Anthropology Emerita at the University of New Mexico and Past President of the American Anthropological Association. The papers of Louise Lamphere document Lamphere's career as an anthropologist and feminist scholar. Materials include biographical information, correspondence, drafts of publications, teaching and research files, and files related to academic conferences. ...more information Laviolette (Marie Louise) This collection consists of the personal papers of Maria Louise Laviolette, Pembroke College alumna from the class of 1905. Papers document events at Pembroke and include Class Day, commencement, and Ivy Day programs, as well as a formal graduation photo of Laviolette and a photo book of Brown University. The collection spans from 1905-1906 with the exception of one piece of correspondence from 2018. ...more information Lewis (David C.) The David C. Lewis papers contain information on his efforts to collect historical collections concerning alcoholism and his work at the local, state and federal level concerning alcoholism and addiction, as well as administrative materials on the founding of the Center for Alcohol and Addiction Studies at Brown. The collection contains correspondence, legal papers, memoranda, writings, printed materials, meeting minutes, audiovisual materials and financial papers including appraisals of collections which David Lewis had acquired or was exploring acquiring for the Brown University library. ...more information Littlefield (Katherine Frances) The Katherine Frances Littlefield papers chronicles the early professional life of a 1902 graduate of Pembroke College at Brown University through letters to her mother from 1905-1909. The letters focus on the establishment of her professional career and family matters. ...more information Lord (Augustus Mendon) The Augustus Mendon Lord collection includes correspondence, documents, and autographs of prominent figures from the period 1778 through 1908. The bulk of the correspondence pertains to American politicians, particularly members of Congress, and dates from 1876 through 1908. However, the collection also contains autographs and documents from American and European military, scientific, literary, and artistic figures. ...more information Louttit (William Easton) Papers consist of records of book purchases, papers relating to Brown University, and correspondence with Alice Hay Wadsworth and numerous booksellers. Materials date from 1930 to 1973. ...more information Lovell family The Lovell family papers were compiled by Malcolm R. Lovell, Jr. They range in date from 1790 to 1911, with the primary focus being the period between 1800 and 1860. The range of subjects covered is equally broad, including religion and spirituality, slavery, family life, and student life at Brown University. Religion is at the core of this collection. The story depicted in the collection of nearly 850 letters, journals, clippings, sermons and other materials is that of a family struggling with its convictions about religion. These convictions are apparent in nearly all portions of the collection, from the sermons of Shubael Lovell to the letters and journals of his children. ...more information Mann (Horace) family These papers consist primarily of correspondence dating from 1829 to 1856. Letters discuss topics of teacher institutes, women�s issues, and Mann�s work in the House of Representatives. The majority of the letters were written by Horace Mann, Charlotte Messer Mann, Mary Tyler Peabody Mann, and James Stuart Holmes. ...more information Manning (James) The James Manning Papers consist primarily of correspondence dating from 1765-1791 with prominent British and American Baptist ministers. Much of the correspondence involves the early history of Brown University or various issues regarding the Baptist religion and the growing tide of religion in Providence, Rhode Island. ...more information Massey, Walter E. Walter E. Massey was an associate professor of physics at Brown from 1970-1975. From 1975-1979, he served as a Professor of Physics and College Dean at Brown. The files include office files, committee meeting reports, and research proposals from 1969-1979. Most files are from 1975-1978, in the later period of Massey's career at Brown. ...more information McLoughlin (William Gerald) Professor William Gerald McLoughlin taught history at Brown University from 1954-1992 and was an active and vocal participant professionally and personally in all of the issues and events during those years: freedom of speech, civil rights, racial equality, gender equality (Louis Lamphere sex discrimination case), nuclear energy, improving the Providence education system, the Vietnam War, divestment from South Africa, and US intervention in Nicaragua during the 1980s. His papers are particularly useful for studying the changes in America and their effect s at Brown University during his tenure. His major areas of scholarship were religion in America (particularly Baptists and Evangelicals), the Cherokee Indian Nation, antislavery movement, African Americans, and Rhode Island history. This collection contains research notes and subject files for his many research topics, drafts for some of his published books, correspondence with colleagues and friends, minutes for meetings of the various committees at Brown and in the community on which he served, and newspaper clippings for topics of importance to him. ...more information Morrill Act Papers Papers regarding the acquisition by the University of land in Kansas as a result of the Morrill Act passed by Congress in 1862, the agreement to provide agricultural and mechanical arts instruction, and the sale of the land to support scholarships. ...more information Newman (Karen) This collection contains the personal and professional papers of Karen Newman, scholar of Shakespeare, the Renaissance, and early modern culture,and Professor of Humanities and Professor of Comparative Literature and English at Brown University. Materials date from 1966 to 2018, and documents Newman's academic career and writings through correspondence, writing drafts, syllabi and lecture notes, and administrative files. ...more information Ogden (Peggy) This collection consists of the personal papers of Peggy Ogden, Pembroke College class of 1953, and primarily document the Stephen A. Ogden Jr. '60 Memorial Lecture Series at Brown University named posthumously after her brother. Materials include Peggy Ogden's diplomas and family photos as well as correspondence and DVDs related to the lecture series. The collection dates from 1949-2018. ...more information Paterson (William) The William Paterson Papers, dating from 1919-2003, includes photographs, plays in manuscript, an autobiography in manuscript, a pen and ink drawing, clippings, military decorations, acting awards, pamphlets, and other documents. Paterson, a Brown University graduate (Class of 1941) and a World War II veteran, was an actor by profession. He joined the Cleveland Playhouse in 1947 and worked there for the next 20 years. In 1967 he joined the American Conservatory Theatre where he remained for over 30 years. He also occasionally performed in television and film productions. ...more information Pembroke Center This collection contains the records of the Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women at Brown University, an interdisciplinary research center that fosters critical scholarship on questions of gender and difference, broadly defined, in national and transnational contexts. The collection includes administrative files, correspondence, conference materials, subject files, printed materials, and photographs, relating to the creation and operation of the Pembroke Center, from 1961 to 2019. ...more information Pembroke Center Oral History The Pembroke Center Oral History collection captures the experiences of women, transgender, and gender non-binary members of Pembroke College and Brown University from 1911 to the present. Collection contains administrative records, audiotapes of interviews, transcripts, and related material. To listen to interviews and read transcripts online see https://www.brown.edu/initiatives/pembroke-oral-histories/. ...more information Pembroke College Clothing The Pembroke College Clothing collection includes dresses, tops, skirts, and jumpsuits, likely produced by Pembroke College students for sewing lessons or theatrical productions. The clothing was made approximately between the 1920s through 1970 though these dates are only estimated based on garment style. ...more information Pembroke College records from Alumnae Hall The Pembroke College records from Alumnae Hall document daily life on campus and include change of address slips, freshman student directories, room guest tickets and receipts, and memos. The collection spans from 1917-1970 with the bulk of the materials dating from 1962-1970. ...more information Poland (William Carey) William Carey Poland (1846-1929) was a member of the Class of 1868, and subsequently professor of Classics at Brown from 1870 to 1892. After his return from a sabbatical year in Greece in 1892, he was named the first Professor in the History of Art at Brown. He later served as President of the Rhode Island School of Design (1896-1907), but continued to teach the history of art at Brown until his retirement in 1915. Poland House, a residence hall on the Brown campus, is named for him. The William Carey Poland Papers consist of 9 diaries and 24 photographs dating from around 1860 to 1910. Two of the diaries are in the hand of Clara (Harkness) Poland and one is in the hand of William Poland Jr. The photographs in the collection include various images of the Poland family as well of Prof. Poland at an archaeological dig, probably in Greece. ...more information Powel (Harford W.H.) T.S. Eliot This material was collected by Powel for his master's thesis, Notes on the life of T. S. Eliot 1888-1910, Brown University, 1954. Autograph and typed letters to and from Eliot's classmates; miscellaneous manuscripts relating to T. S. Eliot and Harvard College ca. 1909; photostats of selected contributions by Eliot to Smith Academy Record and Harvard Advocate. ...more information Redding (J. Saunders) Born in Wilmington, Delaware, Saunders Redding graduated from Brown in 1928. After two years of teaching he returned to Brown to earn an A.M. in 1932. A writer and specialist in African-American Literature, Redding spent the majority of his teaching career at the Hampton Institute in Hampton, Virginia, where he was Professor of English from 1943 to 1966. He subsequently taught at taught Duke, George Washington and Cornell Universities. In 1949, he returned to Brown for a brief stint as a visiting Professor, thus becoming the first African American to teach at an Ivy League school. He later served as Director of the National Endowment for the Humanities Division of Research and Publications from 1966 to 1969. The Redding papers cover his long career as a writer, academic and administrator, and document his involvement with numerous African American organizations and causes. ...more information Reichley, Robert Robert A. Reichley (1927-2018) was the Executive Vice President for Alumni, Public Affairs and External Relations at Brown University. The files include personal documents, commencement notes, correspondences with Howard Swearer, copies of speeches, files relating to student strikes and referendums, Alumni relation letters, reports of Brown's public reputation, and budget plans. They are dated from 1968-1997. ...more information Review Club The Review Club records include papers and materials of the Review Club at Brown University, an informal organization aimed at the study and discussion of literature and culture. The collection includes booklets, manuscripts, correspondence, and ephemera related to the organization and its members. ...more information Rhode Island College Miscellaneous A collection of early historical documents of Brown University from the petition for a charter in 1763 to the change of name from Rhode Island College to Brown University in 1804. Titles of the papers and folder numbers are taken from the two volumes in which the papers had previously been mounted. ...more information Rhode Island Society for the Collegiate Education of Women The records of the Rhode Island Society for the Collegiate Education of Women (RISCEW) consist of the organization's meeting minute records, correspondence, news clippings, organizational histories, membership lists and financial ledgers from 1895-1971. Additional materials within the collection are reports by various committees, such as the Building Committee, Evaluation Committee, and the War Service Committee of 1918-1919. ...more information Robinson (Edward North) Sports The Edward North Robinson Collection of Brown University Athletics contains more than 30,000 photographs, over 900 reels of motion pictures, manuscripts, cartoons, scrapbooks, museum objects, office files, media guides and programs. This collection is part of the Brown University Archives. ...more information Robinson (Ezekial Gilman) The Ezekiel Gilman Robinson papers primarily contain the business correspondence of Robinson during his presidency at Brown University between 1872 and 1889. Also included are three typewritten drafts of an article entitled, "The Professor of Philosophy," by Alfred Gideon Langley about Robinson. This article was meant to be a supplement to Robinson�s autobiography but it was never published. ...more information Rohr, Donald G. Associate Dean of the Faculty The Donald G. Rohr Associate Dean of the Faculty Files contain memos, corporate correspondence, and grant analyses relating to Brown University. The files date from 1976 to 1981. ...more information Russian Exchange The Russian Exchange records contain correspondence related to the publication exchange program between Brown University and several libraries located in the U.S.S.R. The collection also contains correspondence documenting the exchange of materials with UNESCO and Latin American libraries. ...more information Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender This collection contains the records of the Sarah Doyle Center for Women and Gender at Brown University. Materials include staff logs; administrative and event files for student groups including the Greenlight Network, Third World Women’s Affairs, the Women’s Escort Service, and the Women’s Political Task Force; subject files regarding abortion, LGBTQ sexual health, and South African Divestiture; student papers; and print material such as handbooks, journals, and newsletters. Materials date from 1970 to 1992. ...more information Schulze, Robert O. Robert O. Schulze was dean of the College at Brown University from 1964 to 1969. He joined the Brown faculty in 1955 as an instructor of sociology, specializing in historical and political sociology. The files contain speeches and correspondence relating to Brown and sociology. The files date from 1959 to 1967. ...more information Sears (Barnas) Barnas Sears graduated from Brown University in 1825 and served as the fifth president of Brown from 1855-1867. This collection primarily consists of correspondence from Sears' service as president of Brown University. ...more information Sharpe (Mary Elizabeth) Mary Elizabeth Sharpe (1884-1985) was a successful businesswoman (owner of a successful tea shop and candy room in New York City) when she married her husband Henry Sharpe in 1920. Mrs. Sharpe was a philanthropist with many interests but was best known for her efforts to beautify Brown University and the city of Providence, RI. A self-taught landscape architect, Sharpe established an annual tree fund and lead the fundraising efforts to create India Point Park, a Providence waterfront recreation area. This collection contains her personal files, blueprints, correspondence, day books, calendars, clippings, recipes, scrapbooks, records relating to landscaping and other community projects, gardening information, blueprints, and photographs. ...more information Skidmore (Thomas E.) This collection documents the career of Thomas E. Skidmore who was a professor in the Latin American Studies department at the University of Wisconsin (1967-1987) and then at Brown University (1988-1999). His area of focus was Brazil and he was the pre-eminent expert in the United States on the topic of its history and politics. The collection relates primarily to his professional life as a student, professor and scholar wit materials related to his personal life interspersed throughout. See also the Thomas E. Skidmore Collection for information about the books he donated from his personal library. ...more information Spicer (William Arnold III) This collection offers a glimpse into the social and intellectual life of William A. Spicer, III, (1919-2008) a Brown University alumnus and administrator, world traveler, and expert in the care and restoration of clocks. The materials date from 1901 to 2004, with the bulk from the 1960s to 2004. It contains scattered correspondence; travel brochures, maps, and postcards; memorabilia; printed materials; photographs and photographic slides; ephemera; and various artifacts, including an antique stereoscope with accompanying glass slides. ...more information Stewart-Steinberg (Suzanne) Suzanne Stewart-Steinberg is Professor of Italian Studies and Comparative Literature at Brown University and Director of the Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women. She has published three books: Sublime Surrender: Male Masochism at the Fin-de-Siècle (1998), The Pinocchio Effect: On Making Italians (1860-1920) published in 2007 and translated into Italian in 2011, and Impious Fidelity: Anna Freud, Psychoanalysis, and Politics (2012). Stewart-Steinberg received a Guggenheim fellowship in 2017 to support her next book project, Grounds for Reclamation: Italian Fascism, Post-Fascism and the Making of Consent. The collection documents Stewart-Steinberg's professional life, research in poststructuralist Marxism, politics and culture in post-unification Italy, psychoanalytic theory, as well as correspondence, conference material, research journals, and a significant number of her writings. ...more information Stillwell (Margaret Bingham) The papers of Margaret Bingham Stillwell, librarian of the Annmary Brown Memorial, 1917 - 1953, and professor of bibliography, 1948 - 1953. Includes personal correspondence, incunabula census correspondence, Annmary Brown Memorial correspondence, manuscripts, notes, poetry, talks, subject files, personal papers, Hroswitha Club Papers, specimen pages and galley proofs of Gesamtkatalog der Wiegendrucke. ...more information Stoltz, Merton P. files as provost of Brown University Merton Philip Stoltz (1913-1989) held many positions during his tenure at Brown University: Professor of Economics, associate dean of the Graduate School, dean of the University, provost, and acting president. The materials in this collection primarily relate to his work as provost. It include office files, correspondence, and committee files dated from 1959 to 1978. It includes materials from various campus offices, speeches, projects, and committees regarding the comprehensive involvement of a Provost at the University. It includes significant materials related to the student exchange program and relationship between Tougaloo College, an historically black college in Tougaloo, Mississippi, and Brown University. ...more information Swearer, Howard Robert Consists of subject files dating from 1976 to 1990, most of which were created while Howard Robert Swearer was President of Brown University. Subjects documented in the collection include alumni and alumnae; athletics; admissions; the Bio-Med program; the Corporation; commencements; physical planning; faculty; libraries; students; the cooperative program between Brown University and Tougaloo College; and gifts to the University. Civil rights and minority affairs on the Brown University campus, including issues about status of women; Afro-American studies; Asian-American students; Hispanic American students; the American Civil Liberties Union; sexual harassment; and discrimination are documented. Student topics documented include the university radio station, WBRU; issues pertaining to Iranian students (ca.1978-1980); campus organizations; and protests about Central Intelligence Agency recruiting on campus. There are files on Richard Salomon, Thomas J. Watson, and Baruch Korff. ...more information Tefft (Thomas Alexander) Architectural Drawings Architectural drawings by Thomas Alexander Tefft, Brown University Class of 1851. ...more information Turner (William Mason) Contains personal correspondence, legal documents, poetry, photographs, and sketches of William Mason Turner, a graduate of Brown University (1855), physician, Confederate surgeon, traveler and author. ...more information Van Nostrand (A. D.) Papers, 1945-1997, of Professor A. D. Van Nostrand, professor emeritus of English at Brown University, including information on the Center for Research in Writing, scripts from educational television shows, textbooks regarding the functional writing model, and personal papers. ...more information Venture Consortium Records, 1970-2007, of the Venture Consortium, a consortium of Brown University, Holy Cross, Franklin and Marshall College, Sarah Lawrence College, Vassar College, and Wesleyan University providing undergraduates with programs in community service. Includes records of board meetings, board correspondence, correspondence relating to campus visits, records of fundraising activities, communications and publicity materials, historical materials, surveys, program files, photographs, DVD's and audiocassettes. ...more information Watson (John Brown) John Brown Watson (Class of 1904) was among the earliest African American alumni of Brown University and had a distinguished career in the historically Black colleges of the South. After a teaching stint at Morehouse College, Watson moved into a career as an administrator. He became founding President of Leland College in Baker, Louisiana, in 1923, and later ascended to the presidency of Arkansas Agricultural, Mechanical and Normal School, later known as Arkansas A&M University (now: University of Arkansas at Pine Bluff). The Watson papers cover, among other topics, African American education; the role of the African American woman as Christian homemaker and as community leader in education; land reform (creation of farms and rental of property to poor African Americans); African American business; African American leadership of the early 20th century; and African American missions in Africa. ...more information Watson (Thomas J. Jr.) Thomas J. Watson, Jr., (Brown University class of 1937) was the President and CEO of International Business Machines (1952-1971). After his retirement from IBM, Watson began a career in government service, serving as chairman of the General Advisor Committee on Arms Control and Disarmament and as Ambassador to the Soviet Union (1978-1981). Watson's papers consist of correspondence, speeches, diaries, daybooks, manuscripts, ships' logs, military records, reports, printed material, photographs, and clippings dating from 1905 to 1994 that document the life of Thomas J. Watson, Jr. About twenty-five percent of the collection documents the period in which he was the Ambassador to the Soviet Union and fifteen percent of the collection consists of speeches. There is a dearth of material about the International Business Machines Corporation. The bulk of the IBM series consists of letters written to Watson in 1971 after he announced his retirement from the company. ...more information Weed (Elizabeth) Elizabeth Weed served as the Founding Director of the Sarah Doyle Women's Center (1977-1981) and Director of the Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women (2000-2010), both at Brown University. The Elizabeth Weed papers comprise a small set of materials including essays, lectures, and articles from various professors and visiting academics, as well as correspondence. Researchers should also view the Pembroke Center Records collection for other papers created by Elizabeth Weed. ...more information Williams Table The reassembled colonial library of Brown University. The "Distresses of our oppressed Country," as the American Revolution was described in a class petition, interrupted the College's course of instruction between December, 1776 and June, 1782. The College Edifice was used as a barracks and hospital for the American and French troops. The library, fortunately, was removed and stored in rural Wrentham, Massachusetts at the home of William Williams, of Williams Table fame. Upon the reorganization of the College in the fall of 1782, the Corporation resolved that the "Library, which, owing to the public confusions, has for several years been in the country, after being compared and examined by the catalogue, be immediately brought with care into town." The catalog in question, undated and in President Manning's hand, probably was compiled in 1782 and listed some 6oo volumes. Most of those volumes survive today as the Williams Table Collection and they constitute one of Brown's most institutionally significant special collections. ...more information Women in Rhode Island Oral History The Women in Rhode Island Oral History Collection, 1983-2006, contains administrative files and audio taped interviews with Rhode Island women and pertaining to issues affecting women in Rhode Island. Topics discussed include the Women's Movement, abortion advocacy and the Catholic Church, and women in the Hmong community in Rhode Island. ...more information Wriston (Henry Merritt) Files Consists of correspondence with attachments; speeches; writings; manuscripts; drafts (documents); galley proofs; contracts; plans; and printed material, including clippings, reprints, pamphlets, and programs dating from 1914 to 1977, although the bulk dates from the 1930s to the 1960s. The collection documents Henry Merritt Wriston's career as president of Brown University and Lawrence College. ...more information Image Source: David Augustus Leonard. College Edifice and President's House. Colored reproduction of circa 1795 engraving circa 1945. Brown University Archives. Return to Collections A to Z Index Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet