CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Undergraduate Library Services Milstein Family College Library The Philip L. Milstein Family College Library comprises study spaces, services, and an interdisciplinary undergraduate collection of resources with 24-hour access. The Library is located within Butler Library, on the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th floors. The core undergraduate collection includes more than 52,000 circulating books with a strong emphasis on history, literature, and the social sciences supporting the undergraduate curricula in Columbia College, General Studies, and to a limited extent, the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences (SEAS). Other collections within the Milstein College Library include the Comics and Graphic Novels Collection, the FLI (First-Generation, Low-Income) Partnership Library, and Butler Reserves Collection. Collections Columbia First-Generation, Low-Income (FLI) Partnership Library Related: Barnard FLI Partnership Library Course Reserves Milstein Undergraduate Collection Services for Students Borrow, Request, and Renew Chat and Drop-In Research Help (Ask a Librarian) Citation Management (Zotero) Health & Wellness Printing and Scanning Schedule a Research Consultation Study Spaces Workshops All Services & Tools for Students Services for Faculty Course Reserves Request Teaching Support Library Guides University Writing Research Guide Fall 2021 in the Milstein Library Milstein Access: Milstein is open to current Columbia University students, faculty, and staff. Patrons must comply with the Columbia Community Health Compact for entry. Masks are currently required at all times, regardless of vaccination status, in keeping with the Columbia University COVID-19 Monitoring Plan. Using the Collections: The Milstein stacks and spaces are open to eligible Columbia affiliates. Patrons may browse the stacks and use items from the research collections in the library whenever Butler Library is open (typically 24/7 during the semester); however, material may be checked out at the Circulation Desk only during service hours. Study Spaces: There are a number of individual and group study spaces available in the Milstein Library reading rooms within Butler. Rooms 202 and 209 are designated spaces for video conferencing. Research & Teaching Support: Use our Ask a Librarian service for questions about research and related topics. Sidebar Undergraduate Library Services Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact Butler Library 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-0520 E-mail: undergrad@library.columbia.edu Undergraduate Library Services Links About Staff Services Milstein Call Number Guide FLI Partnership Library Related Links Butler Library Butler Library Research Services Butler Floorplans & Call Number Guide Ask a Librarian CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.