CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Orders & Services 2021-2022 ACADEMIC YEAR AT RBML: WHAT TO EXPECT All services are contingent upon available staff resources. Turnaround times may be longer. We appreciate your patience and flexibility. Reproduction Services Low-resolution digital reproductions (PDFs), high-resolution digital reproductions and original or archival time-based media conversion services are provided to our users to support teaching, research, and other scholarship. The RBML provides reproductions from our collections upon request as long as the staff determines that copying will not harm the original document(s) or violate copyright law. High-resolution digital imaging and A/V orders: use current instructions & forms Low-resolutions scans (PDFs), including Oral History transcripts: use current instructions & forms TERMS OF SERVICE for 2021-2022 Low-resolution digital scans (PDFs) are provided to our users to support research and scholarship. The Rare Book & Manuscript Library (RBML) provides reproductions from our collections under the following terms of service and as long as copying will not harm the original document(s) or violate copyright law: Our ability to deliver low-resolution digital scans is dependent on available staff resources. Priority processing will be given to requests in support of teaching and research by affiliates of Columbia University. Reproduction orders for archival material are limited to a maximum total of 250 pages. Reproductions of Oral Histories, MA Essays or Dissertations are limited to 650 pages. We reserve the right to limit or refuse multiple orders or single requests which exceed our maximum order limits, or to charge fees for accepted orders which we discover to exceed the above maximum order limits. We can accept scan requests for “known items” (e.g. Box 7, Folder 3) but may not be able to fulfill requests which would first require dedicated research. Users may hire a current Columbia student to conduct research on their behalf. Bound materials other than Oral Histories, MA Essays and Dissertations cannot usually be reproduced via photocopy or low-resolution PDF and may need to be reproduced via high-resolution digital imaging. Requests for a complete unit or large amount of material, such as an entire box of manuscript material, cannot be fulfilled by low-resolution scanning. Reproductions may be possible through high-resolution digital imaging, if condition and copyright law allows. RBML staff will contact you if your request cannot be fulfilled by low-resolution digital imaging (PDF). Accepted orders which meet these terms of service can generally be processed within 6-8 weeks. Hiring a Researcher If you would like to hire a Columbia graduate student to assist you, you may contact the following offices where you can post a short-term research position: Columbia History Department: history@columbia.edu Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Career Development: gsas-compass@columbia.edu Class Instruction & Assignments Faculty from Columbia University and affiliated institutions are welcome to arrange for remote instruction sessions with Rare Book & Manuscript Library (RBML) curators. Faculty interested in giving class assignments involving RBML materials are asked to explore our remote resources and to contact RBML to discuss options and strategies: rbml@library.columbia.edu. Reading Room Access: Reading Room Access: Starting November 1, 2021, the reading room will be open Monday to Friday, 10am to 4pm by advance appointment only to external visitors and current Columbia students, faculty and staff whose individual research requires consulting RBML materials. Reading room seats are limited and appointments must be booked well in advance. See the Plan Your Visit Page for external visitor requirements and instructions for booking appointments. Loans for Exhibitions Institutions interested in borrowing materials from RBML collections for exhibitions should contact Jennifer Lee at least one year in advance of the opening of the exhibit for domestic exhibitions and significantly longer for exhibitions in countries other than the United States. Preliminary information should include full description of item(s) requested, opening and closing dates of the exhibit, and an indication of how material would be displayed. Exact display information and a formal exhibitions facilities report for the institution will be required before a decision can be made. Please see the Columbia University Libraries Guidelines for Lending Materials for Exhibition for a detailed description of how to place your loan request. For further information, please see the Rare Book & Manuscript Section, Association of College and Research Libraries, American Library Association, ACRL Guidelines for Borrowing and Lending Special Collections Materials for Exhibition (January 2005). Sidebar Rare Book & Manuscript Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor East Butler Library 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-5590 E-mail: rbml@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Create or Access Your Special Collections Research Account Rare Book & Manuscript Library About RBML Find Materials Plan Your Visit Orders & Services Exhibitions & Programs Collection Areas Digital Collections What We Collect Staff News Sign up to receive updates on RBML Events CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.