CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Columbia College Today (CCT) CCT is the alumni magazine of Columbia College, the undergraduate liberal arts college at Columbia University in the City of New York. First published in 1954, it is now published three times a year by the Columbia College Office of Alumni Affairs and Development for College alumni, faculty, parents, students and friends. Issues include profiles of alumni, professors and students; College news; book excerpts; letters from senior staff; Class Notes; Bookshelf; Obituaries; and first-person accounts, along with event coverage (e.g., reunion, Homecoming). CCT Current Issues Issues from 1999 to the present are available on the CCT website. CCT Records In September 2021, the CCT staff transferred to the University Archives the photographs and some research files used for the production of this alumni magazine. The Columbia College Today records include photographs of former students (not from their student days), class reunions, faculty and adminstrators, and Columbia campus views and events. The alumni files, the largest series in the collection, may include photographs, articles, newspaper clippings, press releases, memorial invitations, obituaries, and correspondence. CCT Paper Issues The University Archives holds a mostly complete run of CCT's paper issues. In order to use the University Archives collections at the Rare Book & Manuscript Library (RBML), you are required to register your own Special Collections Research Account before your visit and to validate the account in person with government-issued photo identification or a Columbia ID card. Once you have created your Special Collections Research Account, you will be able to request materials directly from the library's online catalog, CLIO: Click the Special Collections link Enter the issue date (month or season and year); and Scroll to the bottom of the page and click the “Submit Request” button. CCT Archive Online Thanks to a gift from the board of the Columbia University Club Foundation, CCT and the Columbia University Libraries recently digitized back issues from 1954 through and including Summer 2016 and made them available on the Internet Archive. This donation was made in recognition of the 18 and half years that Alex Sachare CC 1971 was CCT's editor (1998-2016). The issues have been indexed so you can easily search for articles, names and topics or just browse through individual issues. CCT WKCR Audio The Fall 1986 issue of CCT celebrated the 45th Annivesary of WKCR, Columbia's student radio station. As part of the comprehensive coverage, the issue included a vinyl-like record. The Highlights of King's Crown Radio offers a wide range of audio samples from WKCR's archives: a station break in 1941-1942; an interview with Fidel Castro, 1958; the first stereo sign-on, 1964; University President Grayson Kirk on academic freedom, 1954; the Columbia vs. Princeton Ivy League basketball championship game, 1968; a Louis Armstrong station promo, 1970-1971; and live coverage from the "bust" of the spring 1968 campus occupation. The audio was produced and narrated by James C. Katz CC 1972, BUS 1980, CCT's then-editor. Sidebar Columbia University Archives Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor Butler Library 535 West 114th St. M.C. 1127 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-3786 E-mail: uarchives@columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Create or Access Your Special Collections Research Account Columbia University Archives About the University Archives Research & Access Use Policies & Services Collection Overview Columbia History Resources University Archives Research Guides Donating Materials Managing University Records Rare Book & Manuscript Library RBML News CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.