My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) About the Libraries Job & Internship Opportunities Ask a Librarian Internship Program Ask a Librarian Internship Program The Ask A Librarian Internship provides current and recently-graduated library school students with hands-on experience in various areas of academic librarianship. Interns will receive training and support from a librarian supervisor in order to assist users through the Ask A Librarian chat reference service. Additionally, interns will work with their supervisor to conduct a specific project, which can be conducted remotely or in-person, such as designing and delivering a workshop session, creating topical research guides, or processing special collections. Interns will be assigned to a project based on their interests and project availability. The Ask A Librarian Internship Program seeks to provide meaningful working experiences that relate to the goals and interests of the intern. BIPOC (Black, Indigenous, and People of Color) library school students and recent graduates are highly encouraged to apply. Availablility No positions are currently available. The internship will be open for applications again in June 2022, for internships starting in the Fall 2022 semester. Location The internship will be conducted remotely. Interns residing in the New York City area will have the option to conduct project work at Columbia University’s Morningside Campus if desired. Compensation $20/hour Schedule The schedule is variable, but requires six hours of chat reference staffing during evenings and/or weekends, and four hours of working on a project and meeting with their supervisor, for a total of 10 hours per week. Anticipated evening and weekend chat reference hours include Monday-Thursday 6pm to 9pm, Saturday 11am-6pm, and Sunday 12pm-9pm (Eastern Time). Duties Provide research assistance to users via chat reference Refer users to appropriate Libraries departments or staff members Successfully complete a project as directed by an intern supervisor Meet with intern supervisor once per week Required Qualifications Must be currently enrolled in a Master of Library Science (MLS) or equivalent program in the United States, or have graduated from a MLS program within the past year and be a U.S. resident Ability to work evenings and/or weekends Preferred Qualifications Demonstrated effective verbal and written communication skills Coursework or experience in research services/reference Ability to evaluate, understand, and respond to research questions Strong commitment to service Applicant Instructions No positions are currently available. The internship will be open for applications again in June 2022, for internships starting in the Fall 2022 semester. For Questions or Additional Information Please contact AskALibrarianInternship@library.columbia.edu. Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 All Libraries Staff Subject Specialists News Events & Exhibitions Maps & Directions Libraries Awards Strategic Directions Policies Workshops Drop-in Help Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian