CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Digital Serlio Project The Digital Serlio Project presents Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library's unparalleled holdings of the works of Sebastiano Serlio including his published works in multiple editions, and the manuscript for his unpublished masterwork, On Domestic Architecture. The Project seeks to facilitate active use of the collection in curricular and research activities and to promote new scholarship. The Digital Serlio Project brings current research on Serlio's works into direct conversation with digital captures of the works themselves. A sixteenth-century Italian architect and theoretician, Sebastiano Serlio was influential in canonizing the classical orders of architecture as the author of seven books on architecture, collectively known as Tutte l'opere d'architettura, and for his formulation of the first typology of Western domestic architecture. The Digital Serlio Project leverages contemporary methodologies – including visual, textual and material analysis using high resolution digital images – to re-examine Avery’s Serlio corpus and the questions it foments on domestic architecture of the 16th century and Serlio’s socio-economic model for early modern European urbanism. See also: Digital Serlio Symposium ABOUT DIGITAL SERLIO SERLIO MANUSCRIPTS TEXT ANALYSIS PUBLISHED EDITIONS SCHOLARS ESSAYS The Digital Serlio Project is directed by the Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library in collaboration with the Columbia University Libraries, Department of Art History & Archaeology, Graduate School of Architecture, Planning and Preservation (GSAPP), Graduate School of Arts & Sciences, and the Italian Academy (Columbia University); University of Bologna; and the Ecolé nationale des Chartes. Funding for research and scholarship is provided by grants from the Samuel Freeman Charitable Trust and the Sidney J. Weinberg, Jr. Foundation. LAST UPDATED: 19 October 2018 Sidebar Avery Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 300 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue M.C. 0301 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-6199 E-mail: avery@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Avery Library Links About Staff Related Links Avery Friends Avery Store Avery Library Blog Public Outdoor Sculpture at Columbia blog CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.