My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) Services & Tools Ask a Librarian Ask a Librarian Privacy Information Ask a Librarian Privacy Information Sign-In Information We do not require any personal or contact information to initiate a chat session. However, the librarian may ask for your telephone number, e-mail address, or UNI so that he or she can call or e-mail you in order to best work on more complex questions. The librarian may also ask whether or not you are affiliated with Columbia University in order to identify the most appropriate resources to answer your question; many of our databases are licensed for use only by affiliates. Answering Your Question We often work in a collaborative fashion with our colleagues in the Columbia University Libraries, and your question may be best answered by a librarian other than the one that originally received your chat. Your question may be forwarded to a subject specialist librarian better able to provide a good answer. Your contact information will be sent along with your question so that you can be contacted in the most timely manner. Most evenings during the Fall and Spring semesters (generally 5 p.m. - 9 p.m. Monday through Thursday and Sundays) our chat services are staffed by library school interns from accredited Master's degree programs that include Queens College, Pratt Institute, and the Palmer School at C.W. Post. All interns and librarians participating in this program respect your privacy. Stored Information Chat transcripts are stored securely on our chat provider's servers and may also be downloaded to secure storage on the library's servers. We access these transcripts to evaluate the quality of our service as well as for statistical purposes. We are occasionally contacted by researchers in the academic community who are interested in reading our chat interactions. We consider these requests on a case-by-case basis, but in all cases, any identifying patron information is stripped away before the data is provided to the researcher. We do not provide transcripts to any other entities. Please send comments and questions to the User Engagement Committee (User-Engagement-Comm@library.columbia.edu). Use of Ask a Librarian services is limited to Columbia University faculty, students, staff, and alumni; and to those with questions specific to the Columbia University Libraries, the use of its collections, and its policies. If you’re not affiliated with Columbia University, please direct your query to your local public, state, or academic library. Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Ask a Librarian Course Reserves Digital Scholarship Research Data Services Study Spaces Library Information Office Preservation & Digital Conversion Division Request Items & Services Other Library Catalogs Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian