Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box » Libraries Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Want to search for books, journals, and articles instead? Exit Search Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving My Account Make a Gift Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving MY ACCOUNT 1Search Course Reserves Help Search Books, Articles, and more Advanced Search Databases A-Z eJournals A-Z Theses & Dissertations Search Tips Search course reserves Advanced Search Databases A-Z eJournals A-Z Search Tips I need help with... Advanced Search Databases A-Z eJournals A-Z Search Tips Please enter a search term. Close Valley Library Hours More Hours Hours Interlibrary Loan Floor Maps Reading Room Healing Collection The Reading Room has new community art on display in the Healing Collection. Visit the Reading Room located in the 2nd floor of the Valley Library to view art by students and community members. Conflict in Ukraine In an effort to understand the significance of the invasion of Ukraine by Russian troops and the chain of events that preceded it, Kanopy has carefully curated a collection of documentary and narrative films focused specifically on this country and region. Gain a better understanding of the history and current events of the region with 20 films available to stream on demand through the Library's subscription. Spring Term Crafternoons Take a study break! Join our Crafternoons table every other Thursday from 4-5PM. Each week will have different crafts. This term's Crafternoons will be March 30, 4 pm - 5pm April 14, 4 pm - 5pm April 28, 4 pm - 5pm May 12, 4 pm - 5pm May 26, 4 pm - 5pm June 9, 4 pm - 5pm Over the course of the term, we expect to do rock painting, zines, collage, stamp-making, friendship bracelets, and more! Check this page for updates. Library News Everyone is welcome! - Dec 31, 1969 … Read full story. Board game study breaks! - Dec 31, 1969 … Read full story. We've got tech that you need and love! - Dec 31, 1969 … Read full story. Summit items available for renewal - Dec 31, 1969 … Read full story. In the Reading Room for Spring: Healing - Dec 31, 1969 … Read full story. View All News Anti-racist and Anti-bias Calls to Action Oregon State University Library and Press re-commits ourselves to engage in anti-racist and anti-bias work that creates meaningful change for ourselves and for our users. Read our call to action. Asian, Asian American, and Pacific Islander Community Statement of Support Contact Info 121 The Valley Library Corvallis OR 97331–4501 541-737-3331 Contact Us Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Flickr Twitter Instagram In The Valley Library Oregon State University Press Special Collections and Archives Research Center Undergrad Research & Writing Studio Graduate Student Commons Tutoring Services Student Multimedia Studio Northwest Art Collection Child Care Digital Projects Oregon Explorer Oregon Digital ScholarsArchive@OSU Digital Publishing Initiatives Atlas of the Pacific Northwest Branches Marilyn Potts Guin Library Cascades Campus Library McDowell Library of Vet Medicine Federal Depository Library Program Make a Gift