Toggle navigation Menu UCF Libraries Find Services About Help My Account UCF Libraries Website Homepage Primo Search Databases Research Guides Site Search Primo provides convenient searching for the catalog, e-books, videos, articles, and more. Search Books/eBooks, Articles, and Catalog Search Choose Type All items Articles Books/eBooks Videos Images Dissertations Audio Query Parameters that contain my query words with my exact phrase begins with Search Scope Everything UCF Library Catalog Course Reserves Statewide Catalog For more search options, please click the Advanced Search Button. Advanced SearchJournals List Find a UCF Libraries Database. Guide Search Terms Search Not sure which database you are looking for, you can click one of the buttons below to browse our databases.Databases by Subject Databases by A-Z Search the UCF Libraries Research Guides. Guide Search Terms Search All Research Guides Search the UCF Libraries website. Search Website Search Sitemap Library Information Ask Us Chat with usCall usText usEmail usIn Person Today’s Hours John C. Hitt Library 7:30am - 11pm Rosen Library 8am - 9pm Downtown Library 8am - 9pm CMC Library 8am - 6pm Hours for all Libraries Computer Availability Technology Lending Textbook Lending Study Rooms Print / Copy / Scan 21st Century Library Project Previous Next The 21st Century Library blends traditional library spaces with innovative design to provide faster access to library resources, new learning technologies, more seating for collaborative and individual study, better visibility to move within the building, and collections to support expanding programs. Phase IIA of the project, the renovation of the third floor, is currently in progress. Visit the 21st Century Library page to learn more. View Project Events No events available. View All News Exhibit: 16th Annual Student Book Arts Competition Special Collections & University Archives Posted: May 6th, 2022 UCF Libraries’ Special Collections & University Archives is pleased to announce the 16th Annual Student Book Arts Competition Exhibit. The competition invited UCF and Rollins College students to submit one-of-a-kind artist books. Unlike traditional books, artist books are handmade to reflect personal artistic visions of their creators ranging from narrative storytelling through but not limited to […] Asian Pacific American Heritage Month All Libraries, Diversity & Inclusion, John C. Hitt Library Posted: May 2nd, 2022 May is Asian Pacific American Heritage Month – a celebration of Asians and Pacific Islanders in the United States. Books on display at the main floor of John C. Hitt Library include books that received honors from various book award bodies and written by Asian/Pacific American writers. Books on display include: The Sympathizer: A Novel […] Congratulations! All Libraries Posted: April 14th, 2022 The UCF Libraries is lucky to have so many award winning librarians! Congratulations to Sarah Norris, a recipient of the 2022 UCF Research Incentive Award! The Research Incentive Award recognizes contributions from faculty members who advance the body of knowledge in their field through research, scholarship, and creative activity. Ms. Norris, Scholarly Communication Librarian, is the second […] Downtown Campus Library – Zine Workshop Downtown Campus Library Posted: April 12th, 2022 Downtown Campus Library is hosting a zine workshop on April 20th in DPAC 455 at 1:00 PM. zine (noun): a noncommercial often homemade or online publication usually devoted to specialized or unconventional subject matter. Join Chris Saclolo, UCF Libraries’ book conservator in a workshop on the basics of making your very own zine. Markers, pens, […] View All Find Books, eBooks, and Chapters Articles & Journals Videos & Media Course Materials and Course Reserves Research Guides Collections STARS Digital Repository Technology Lending Services Print, Copy, Scan Study Rooms Computers & Technology Instruction Services for Faculty Services for Postdocs & Grad Students Services for Undergrads Accessibility Services Borrowing from Other Libraries (ILL/DDS) About Hours Libraries Departments Staff Directory Organization Chart – UCF Libraries Policies Facts & Figures Contact Us News & Events Maps & Addresses Jobs Giving to the Libraries 21st Century Library Tech Fee Funded Projects Help Ask Us Research Guides Your Librarian (campus & subject) Schedule an Appointment Submit Feedback Videos Citation Management Report a Problem Site Map My Account Follow on Facebook Follow on Twitter Follow us on Instagram Follow us on Tumblr Follow us on Vimeo Copyright ©2022 UCF Libraries Back to Top