Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Locations & Hours Harvard-Yenching Library Using the Library Collections Research Guides Events Today: 9am - 5pm See All Hours Highlights The most comprehensive East Asian collection of any American university. We hold Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese, and Western materials. Rare and ancient books Digital photos and maps Local Chinese gazetteers Minority language materials Open to Harvard ID holders. Full access policy Follow Harvard-Yenching Library You can find us on Facebook Contact 2 Divinity Avenue Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions email: hylpub@fas.harvard.edu Phone number 617-495-2756 Connect with Harvard-Yenching Library Less contact information More contact information Using the Library Harvard-Yenching Library welcomes all researchers regardless of academic affiliation to view our rare books, historical photographs, manuscripts, archival collections, and other treasured materials. Special Collections can be viewed by appointment in Harvard-Yenching Library's Special Collections Reading Room (3rd floor). Appointments are available on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 10am-12pm and from 2pm-4pm Access Researchers outside of Harvard who do not hold a Library Borrowing Card will need to register with the Harvard Library Access & Borrowing Office prior to accessing the library. Request Materials to View Special collections items can be requested using the “Request to Scan or Visit” link in the HOLLIS record or through HOLLIS Special Request. Offsite materials may require two to four business days to process. Please note that HOLLIS Special Request doesn't send email confirmations. Feel free to contact us to confirm availability ahead of your visit. Be sure to schedule a Reading Room appointment per the instructions below. For more information, please view How to Use Harvard Library's Special Collections and Archives. Schedule a Reading Room Appointment Please schedule an appointment to visit the HYL Special Collections Reading Room. Appointments must be made at least 24 hours in advance. No walk-in or same-day appointments are available. Be sure to request your materials per the instructions above. Class Visits The library may be able to accommodate small classes and sections in the Special Collections Reading Room for hands-on engagement with our materials. Instructors may make a request via the Special Collections and Archives Class Request Tool, or contact us directly. Show LessShow More Collections As of 2018, the Harvard-Yenching Library's collections exceed 1.5 million volumes, including over 900,000 Chinese, 400,000 Japanese, over 200,000 Korean, 30,000 Vietnamese, 55,000 Western languages, 4,000 Tibetan, 3,500 Manchu, and 500 Mongolian. The library also holds rare and special collections, many of which have been digitized and are available to view on HOLLIS. Collection Chinese Collection Collection Chinese Collection Harvard-Yenching Library collects Chinese-language research materials in all formats, with a focus on the humanities and social sciences. Collection Japanese Collection Collection Japanese Collection Harvard-Yenching Library's Japanese Collection focuses on humanities and social sciences in the field of Japanese studies in the Japanese language. Collection Korean Collection Collection Korean Collection Harvard-Yenching Library's Korean Collection covers everything from archaeology to contemporary economic development. Collection Chinese Collection Collection Chinese Collection Harvard-Yenching Library collects Chinese-language research materials in all formats, with a focus on the humanities and social sciences. Collection Japanese Collection Collection Japanese Collection Harvard-Yenching Library's Japanese Collection focuses on humanities and social sciences in the field of Japanese studies in the Japanese language. Collection Korean Collection Collection Korean Collection Harvard-Yenching Library's Korean Collection covers everything from archaeology to contemporary economic development. Collection Vietnamese Collection Collection Vietnamese Collection Harvard-Yenching Library's Vietnamese Collection features materials focusing on humanities and social sciences, particularly history and literature. Collection Tibetan Collection Collection Tibetan Collection Harvard-Yenching Library materials on Buddhism, history, and literature. Collection Mongolian and Manchu Collection Collection Mongolian and Manchu Collection Harvard-Yenching Library's Manchu-language and Mongolian-language holdings Collection Western Languages Collection Collection Western Languages Collection Harvard-Yenching Library's Western Languages Collection complements its East Asian language collections. Show LessShow More Special Collections Harvard-Yenching Library's Special Collections include rare books, archival materials, manuscripts, photos, scrolls, rubbings, and maps, etc. in many languages, such as Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese, Manchu, Mongolian, Tibetan, and Naxi. Many of them have been digitized and can be found in Harvard Digital Collections. Collection Ming-Qing Women's Writings Collection Ming-Qing Women's Writings A valuable resource for scholars studying women's roles in China from the 14th through the 20th centuries. Collection Manchukuo Collection Collection Manchukuo Collection View material related to the Pan-Asian state once located in northeastern China and controlled by imperial Japan. Collection Harvard-Yenching Library Digital Maps Collection Harvard-Yenching Library Digital Maps View hundreds of maps of China, Japan, Korea, and other regions in East Asia. Collection Ming-Qing Women's Writings Collection Ming-Qing Women's Writings A valuable resource for scholars studying women's roles in China from the 14th through the 20th centuries. Collection Manchukuo Collection Collection Manchukuo Collection View material related to the Pan-Asian state once located in northeastern China and controlled by imperial Japan. Collection Harvard-Yenching Library Digital Maps Collection Harvard-Yenching Library Digital Maps View hundreds of maps of China, Japan, Korea, and other regions in East Asia. Collection Chinese Republican Period Collection Collection Chinese Republican Period Collection More than 1,000 publications from China's republican period 民國時期文獻. Collection Chinese Maritime Customs Collection Chinese Maritime Customs Chinese Maritime Customs 中國舊海關資料 Collection Naxi Manuscripts Collection Naxi Manuscripts Hundreds of manuscripts in one of the last widely used pictographic languages in the world. Collection The Rev. Claude L. Pickens, Jr. Collection on Muslims in China Collection The Rev. Claude L. Pickens, Jr. Collection on Muslims in China Images of Muslims and Christian missionaries working among them in Western China in the 1920s and 1930s form the core of this collection. Digital Collection Chinese Rare Books Digital Collection Chinese Rare Books With over 9,600 items, Harvard-Yenching's rare book collection is one of the largest of its kind in the Western world. Collection The Japanese Art and Design Collection Collection The Japanese Art and Design Collection A trove of photographs, prints and design samples from the collection of Ernest Goodrich Stillman. Digital Collection Chinese Rubbings Collection Digital Collection Chinese Rubbings Collection The Fine Arts Library and Harvard-Yenching Library holds rubbings of objects that date from the Qin Dynasty to the Ming Dynasty. Collection Joseph F. Rock Collection Collection Joseph F. Rock Collection View historic photographs of China taken by explorer Joseph Francis Charles Rock. Collection Bruno Petzold Scrolls Collection Collection Bruno Petzold Scrolls Collection Edo manuscripts and scrolls on Buddhism from Bruno Petzold Collection Fairbank and Reischauer Lantern Slide Collection Collection Fairbank and Reischauer Lantern Slide Collection Take a closer look at historic teaching materials developed for a class on East Asian culture in the early mid-twentieth century. Collection Early Photography of Japan Collection Early Photography of Japan An online collection of more than 40 souvenir photograph albums and illustrated publications from across three Harvard libraries. Collection Hedda Morrison Photographs of China Collection Hedda Morrison Photographs of China Photos taken by Hedda Morrison in China, 1933–1946. Collection Souvenir de Chine Collection Souvenir de Chine A collection of photographs taken during the Second Sino-Japanese War 中日战争照片集, featuring the occupation of Shanghai and Nanking. Collection Edwards Bangs Drew Chinese Maritime Customs Service Photographs Collection Edwards Bangs Drew Chinese Maritime Customs Service Photographs Documenting clothing, customs, and daily life in 19th-century China — as well as Drew's life and career. Collection Carter D. Holton Collection Collection Carter D. Holton Collection See more than 5,000 historical photos taken in Northwestern China Show LessShow More Research Guides Research Guide for Chinese Studies Research Guide for Japanese Studies Research Guide for Korean Studies Publications The Harvard-Yenching Library publishes several series, including bibliographical, studies, and reprint series. More information Services & Tools Tool HOLLIS HOLLIS is Harvard Library's catalog. Search HOLLIS for books, articles, media and more. Tool HOLLIS Images A catalog and search tool for finding images from Harvard Library collections. Tool HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Catalog for exploring collection guides, finding aids and inventories to locate unique materials in Harvard's special collections and archives. Tool Database Search A catalog to find the specialized search engine that has what you need—identifying and connecting to the best databases for your research topic. Service Reproductions Need a copy? Request reproductions of library materials for research or publication. Service Interlibrary Loan Can't find the materials you need at Harvard? Submit an Interlibrary Loan request and we'll search libraries around the world. We also lend via ILL to other institutions. How To... How To Get Remote Support for Research & Publishing Working away from your lab or campus office? Harvard Library can help. How To Use Harvard Library's Special Collections and Archives Open to all, these unique materials can take you to places you never expected. How To Borrow, Renew and Return Library Materials Connect with the library materials you need to get your work done. What's Happening Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.