Off-Campus Access | Library A–Z | Hours & Locations Search: Search BruKnow Library Website WorldCat Announcements The John Hay Library is open to researchers and the Brown community. The Gildor Family Special Collections Reading Room is open by appointment only. The Willis Reading Room is open for general table seating without a reservation. Please see the Library hours and locations page for additional information. Please see the Healthy Brown website for up-to-date information about University health and safety protocols. Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library John Hay Library Visiting The John Hay Library's exhibition spaces are open to the public. All visitors to the campus are required to follow Healthy Brown COVID-19 policies and health protocols. The Gildor Family Special Collections Reading Room is open to all researchers by appointment only. The Willis Reading Room is available to Brown faculty, students, and staff for individual study without a reservation. Visitors to Campus Please contact hay@brown.edu if you are a visitor (not part of the current Brown community) who will be visiting the Gildor Family Special Collections Reading Room for four (4) days or more over the course of a month. Library staff will complete a department visitor form on behalf of non-Brown researchers. The visitor will complete a vaccination attestation form affirming they are fully vaccinated. Willis Reading Room The Willis Reading Room in the John Hay Library is available to Brown faculty, students, and staff for individual study without a reservation. The Reading Room is open Monday through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 5 p.m. Please bring your Brown ID to present to staff if requested. GILDOR FAMILY SPECIAL COLLECTIONS READING ROOM Researchers and members of the Brown community may schedule visits to the Gildor Family Special Collections Reading Room. Research visits are available on an appointment-only basis Monday through Friday. See Library hours for additional information. Request materials and an appointment at least one week in advance of your visit. To ensure proper social distancing, we are currently limiting use of the Special Collections Reading Room to a maximum of nine (9) researchers per day. Before you arrive: Register as a researcher: The registration process creates an online account in Aeon that enables you to request materials to view in the Special Collections Reading Room. You should receive an email message confirming the creation of your account. Request the material you want to use: Submit your requests for collection materials via BruKnow or Aeon at least one week in advance of your visit. We will retrieve and hold your materials at the John Hay Library. If you’re not sure what you need, please contact us so we can help you identify materials and you can set up an appointment for a later date. Request an appointment by contacting hay@brown.edu: Reserve a seat in the Special Collections Reading Room. We ask that you make an appointment at least two (2) days in advance since the reading room only accommodates nine researchers. Your appointment will be confirmed, and you will receive instructions regarding visiting and using materials safely. What can I bring into the Special Collections Reading Room? Camera Cellphone (set to silent or vibrate) Laptop (without its sleeve or bag) Pencils Paper (for notetaking) USB drive Secure lockers are available to store your items that cannot come into the Special Collections Reading Room, such as: Coats Bags, briefcases, purses, and backpacks Binders and folders Drinks (including water bottles) Pens Scanners Lighting equipment Special Collections Links » Home Page » Visiting » Willis Reading Room » Gildor Family Special Collections Reading Room » Using Special Collections » Register for Access » Forms » Special Collections Hours » Permissions and Publication » Reproduction Services » Collections A – Z » Collection Policy » Finding Aids and Catalogs » History of Special Collections » Center for Digital Scholarship » Exhibitions » Friends of the Library » News » FAQ » People ACCESSING UNIVERSITY ARCHIVES Special Collections Links » Home Page » Access and User Services » Forms » Hours » Reproduction Services » Collections A – Z » Finding Aids and Catalogs » History of Special Collections » Center for Digital Scholarship » Exhibitions » Friends of the Library » News » FAQ » People ACCESSING UNIVERSITY ARCHIVES Special Collections Links » Home Page » Access and User Services » Forms » Hours » Reproduction Services » Collections A – Z » Finding Aids and Catalogs » History of Special Collections » Center for Digital Scholarship » Exhibitions » Friends of the Library » News » FAQ » People ACCESSING UNIVERSITY ARCHIVES Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet