My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) About Our Collections E-Resources Off-Campus Access to E-Resources Off-Campus Access to E-Resources If you would like to connect to electronic resources (e.g. journals, databases, etc.) provided by Columbia University Libraries from off-campus, please use the 'remotely accessible URL' links to these resources that appear on the libraries website and in CLIO. These 'remotely accessible URL' links look like: http://www.columbia.edu/cgi-bin/cul/resolve?#####... When you access that URL from off-campus, you may be prompted to enter your UNI and password. If you encounter problems when using our electronic resources, please let us know via the problem report form. Learn how to create your own 'remotely accessible URL' links to specific items in proxied resources here! (UNI Log In Required) Please note: some e-resources are restricted to specific computers even on-campus. Visit the Libraries citation management services and workshops page to learn more. OpenURL, Proxy, and Z39.50 Settings OpenURL Base URL of the Link Resolver: http://rd8hp6du2b.search.serialssolutions.com/ (Note: The trailing slash "/" should be included when adding that in resources.) The openURL resolver accepts queries in versions 0.1 and 1.0. Proxy URL Learn how to Create a Remotely Accessible URL Using EZ Proxy. EZproxy URL: http://ezproxy.cul.columbia.edu/login?url= Z39.50 Z39.50 users: Access to CLIO via the Z39.50 protocol is now restricted to on-campus use. CLIO (Columbia's Voyager-based online public access catalog) is Z39.50 capable, and can be accessed using a Z30.50 client with the following connection settings: Hostname: z3950.library.columbia.edu Port: 7090 Database Name: VOYAGER More information on Z39.50 settings Virtual Private Networks (VPN) Services The CUIT VPN enables you to create a secure connection, a Virtual Private Network, over the Internet, and lets off-campus faculty and staff access administrative applications normally available only on campus. It is needed to access FFE, AP/CAR and other financial applications from remote locations. It does NOT facilitate access to licensed electronic resources. CUIT's Remote Access Services page provides additional information about the CUIT VPN. E-Link E-Link is a small blue icon that appears in the results list of article databases. When you click it, it links your search results to a variety of other research options: Checks if the full text of the article is available online for immediate access Searches CLIO, the library catalog, to see if the journal or book is in the library Submits an Interlibrary Loan request Just click on the e-Link icon to see the menu showing the options available for your article. See also: An Introduction to e-Link E-Link: Frequently Asked Questions If you need more help, please feel free to Ask a Librarian for assistance. Logging Into E-Resources To authenticate or log in, you need a University Network ID (UNI). If you already have a UNI, please follow these instructions to log into restricted services: When prompted for User Name, type your UNI. Do not type @columbia and do not type uppercase letters. When prompted for Password, type the password associated with your UNI. Do not type uppercase letters, unless you created your password with uppercase letters. If you are not able to log in, and you are currently a Columbia student, faculty or staff member, consult the E-mail & Computing: Computer Support page. When an E-Resource is Unavailable Occasionally, for a variety of reasons, a resource may be temporarily unavailable. For example, the system load may be unusually heavy. If a resource is unavailable, just try again later. If a resource is consistently unavailable, please use the E-Resource Problem Report form. You may also report the problem to a reference librarian. If you are not able to log in, and you are currently a Columbia student, faculty or staff member, consult the E-mail & Computing: Computer Support page. Accessing E-Resources Current students, faculty, and staff with a valid University Network ID (UNI) have access to print collections and e-resources. More information about access to Columbia University Libraries More information for Columbia alumni Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Archival Collections Portal Digital Collections & Online Exhibitions Distinctive Collections E-Resources Oral History Portal Web Archives at Columbia Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian