Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box » Libraries Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Want to search for books, journals, and articles instead? Exit Search Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving My Account Make a Gift Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving MY ACCOUNT Course Reserves Student Access to Course Reserves Course material is provided to OSU Students by the library in both physical and digital formats. This list has many of the digital versions with a direct link. You can search for both physical and digital items here, by course, instructor, or textbook title. You can check out physical items at the Circulation Desk on the second (main) floor near the entrance to Valley Library. Most items check out for 3 hours and are first come, first served. Please be prepared to wait 15 minutes between loans. If the library doesn't have a required text for your course, we will do our best to get one for you and your classmates to share if you fill out this form. If you find a course reserve that is open source or free, please email valley.reserves@oregonstate.edu with the information. Students can also borrow textbooks from the Human Services Resource Center (HSRC). Done with your textbook? Consider donating it to the HSRC Library! Questions? Please contact the Ask a Librarian service for help! Instructors and Teaching Assistants Please use this form: Purchase Request for Collections and Course Reserves If you have personal copies of course materials that you are able to lend to the library for your students to borrow, we are happy to facilitate. Please fill out the request form linked above and note it on the form. Requests will be filled in the order received. You will be notified when your materials are available. As we respond to course reserves requests we will prioritize our work in this way: First, we will try to secure licensed, digital copies of books and articles (subject to licensing and availability). Second, we will purchase physical copies of the texts to share with students at the Circulation Desk. Third, we will scan print materials and give students access based on Control Digital Lending's 1:1 ratio principle as time and resources permit. We will also share open source or free materials where they are available. Please know that we appreciate each of you and your commitment to our students. Questions? Please contact valley.reserves@oregonstate.edu for help! Contact Info 121 The Valley Library Corvallis OR 97331–4501 541-737-3331 Contact Us Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Flickr Twitter Instagram In The Valley Library Oregon State University Press Special Collections and Archives Research Center Undergrad Research & Writing Studio Graduate Student Commons Tutoring Services Student Multimedia Studio Northwest Art Collection Child Care Digital Projects Oregon Explorer Oregon Digital ScholarsArchive@OSU Digital Publishing Initiatives Atlas of the Pacific Northwest Branches Marilyn Potts Guin Library Cascades Campus Library McDowell Library of Vet Medicine Federal Depository Library Program Make a Gift