Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Library Exhibits | East Asian Book Art This exhibition was available from Dec. 16, 2009 to March 19, 2010. East Asian countries – China, Japan, and Korea – are not only proud of their long history of paper production and book printing, but also of their development of wonderful book design and binding art. China, especially, now produces more books than any other country in the world, and has witnessed an increasing growth of newly designed books in recent years. We think it’s time to introduce this new trend of book art to our Library patrons. Combining the best of traditional design with modern colors and patterns, these books often use various “real” materials, such as painted porcelains, embroidery, coins, stamps, wood, leather, and special paper, to bring the readers into close touch with both culture and nature. The designs and shapes of the books and book covers/cases are also varied and vivid. In terms of content, the historical range covers nearly 5,000 years. The subject fields include East Asian history, literature, philosophy, religion, military art, fine art, calligraphy, and folk arts. Themes range from ancient bamboo slips to modern music CDs; from Confucian classics to Chairman Mao’s “Little Red Book”; from the printed Buddhist canon of Korea to Japanese ukiyo-e art; and from woodblock printing to Peking opera makeup. All of these reflect the essence of the rich and colorful East Asian cultures. For further information, contact Li Wang. » Return to Library Exhibits Home Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University