Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Locations & Hours Fine Arts Library Using the Library Collections Research Events & Exhibits History Today: 9am - 5pm See All Hours Highlights Harvard’s primary collection and resource of global materials for the study of the history of art and architecture and related disciplines. Islamic art and architecture Asian art and architecture Digital images and slides Prints and photographs Open to Harvard ID holders. Full access policy Follow Fine Arts Library You can find us on Instagram Contact Littauer Center 1805 Cambridge Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions email: falibcir@fas.harvard.edu Phone number 617-495-3374 Fine Arts Library Blog Ask a Librarian View Staff Directory Connect with Fine Arts Less contact information More contact information Using the Library Spaces Reading Room The Fine Arts Library Reading Room is an open, light-filled space located on the main level of the library. Learn more about the Reading Room. Study Carrels The Fine Arts Library has a limited number of carrels located in the book stacks. Learn more about applying for a study carrel. Special Collections Study Room The Fine Arts Library Special Collections Study Room. The Fine Arts Library welcomes researchers to our Special Collections Study Room to view historical photographs, rare books, manuscript facsimiles, auction sales catalogs, archival collections, and other materials from our Special Collections, which do not circulate outside of the library. Access The Special Collections Study Room is currently open by appointment to all researchers (both HUID holders and visiting researchers). All eligible visitors to the Harvard Libraries age 12 or older will be required to present proof of vaccination and booster, along with a photo ID for those age 17 and older, at the Harvard Library Access and Borrowing Office located at Widener Library prior to their scheduled appointment. Visitors will be responsible for following all additional COVID-19 safety guidelines as listed on the Harvard Library Visitor Access page. Note that non-HUID holders will need to register for an account with the Harvard Library Access and Borrowing Office prior to accessing the library. Schedule a Study Room Appointment For the health and safety of our researchers and staff, we ask that you schedule an appointment to visit the Special Collections Study Room using the Appointment Request form. Appointments must be made at least 24 hours in advance. No walk-in or same day appointments will be available. Be sure to also request materials via the instructions below. Request Materials to View Special collections materials can be requested for viewing using the “Request to Scan or Visit” link in the HOLLIS record to connect to HOLLIS Special Request. Some requests, especially for materials held offsite, may require two to four business days to process. Please note that HOLLIS Special Request does not send automated email confirmations. Feel free to contact us to confirm availability ahead of scheduling your visit. Be sure to also schedule a Study Room appointment via the instructions above. Request Materials to Digitize Special collections materials can be requested for digitization using the “Request to Scan or Visit” link in the HOLLIS record to connect to HOLLIS Special Request. For course use or reference questions, contact us directly. Class Visits The library may be able to accommodate small classes and sections in the Study Room for hands-on engagement with Special Collections materials. Instructors may make a request via the Special Collections and Archives Class Request Tool or contact us directly. Virtual course sessions can be arranged for large or small classes as needed. General Guidelines Here are some things to keep in mind for your visit: Handling guidelines must be conscientiously followed in order to preserve library materials for future use. Library staff are always available to provide guidance. Researchers should not remove any items from the Study Room or rearrange any items within a folder or any folders within a box. If material appears to be out of order, please notify library staff. If you need help in handling Special Collections materials, or if you have any questions about them, please don't hesitate to ask the library staff, who are always willing to provide assistance and suggestions to assist your research. Researchers are welcome to bring pencils, laptops, tablets, phones (in silent mode), digital cameras, and other materials to assist in their research. Researchers may bring personal books or papers into the Reading Room only if these items are necessary for their immediate research. All other materials and personal property not essential for research -- including coats, bags, backpacks, computer cases, and other belongings -- must be stored in the lockers provided. We offer a number of supplies that may help you in your research, including: pencils, note taking paper, magnifying glasses, tape measures and rulers, a small light box, and headphones. The library does not permit the use of pens, tripods, scanners, camera flashes, special lighting, or any other equipment that rests directly on collection material or may pose a risk of damage. Researchers are welcome to photograph most materials. Some collections may be subject to donor stipulations that limit or prohibit photography. Researchers are asked not to take pictures of the Study Room itself, other patrons, or library staff. In order to preserve relative quiet for our researchers, we ask laptop computer and digital camera users to turn off all audible features, if possible. Show LessShow More Beverage Policy The Fine Arts Library allows patrons to have coffee in an approved container in the main Reading Room only. Only water in a tight container with a secure lid is allowed in the stacks and carrels. No beverages are allowed in the Special Collections Study Room. This policy will be subject to change at any time. No single use containers with the exception of water. Containers must NOT exceed 16 oz, except for water bottles. Containers must be fully covered with a tight, resealable lid. Coffee is only allowed in the main Reading Room. Only water is allowed in the stacks and carrels. Beverages are not allowed in the Special Collections Study Room. Food is not allowed anywhere in the Fine Arts Library. The Fine Arts Library reserves the right to change and amend the policy as needed. Show LessShow More How To Borrow, Renew and Return Library Materials Connect with the library materials you need to get your work done. How To Use Harvard Library's Special Collections and Archives Open to all, these unique materials can take you to places you never expected. How To Get Remote Support for Research & Publishing Working away from your lab or campus office? Harvard Library can help. How To Teach with Harvard Library Get support to help your students navigate the library and find the materials they need. Service Ask a Librarian Get immediate help during our live chat hours, or submit a question. Service Research Consultations Get personalized guidance from one of our library specialists online or in-person—no question is too small. Service Course Reserves We work with faculty and instructors to help provide students with access to course materials. Service Teach with the Library Our specialists can present sessions tailored to any topic, or help connect you to special collections that support your course goals. Tool HOLLIS Images A catalog and search tool for finding images from Harvard Library collections. Collections Collection Aga Khan Program for Islamic Architecture Collection Aga Khan Program for Islamic Architecture The Documentation Center of the Aga Khan Program for Islamic Architecture at the Fine Arts Library supports teaching and research on the history of art and architecture in Islamic societies. Collection Rübel Asiatic Research Collection Collection Rübel Asiatic Research Collection Major collection for the study of Asian art and archaeology, housed at the Fine Arts Library. Collection Digital Images and Slides Collection Collection Digital Images and Slides Collection The Fine Arts Library's collection of digital images and slides document art and architecture from prehistoric to present. Special Collections Collection Artists' Books Collection Collection Artists' Books Collection The Fine Arts Library's artists' books collection runs the entire range of artistic expression from the abstract and the conceptual to the personal and the political. Digital Collection Chinese Rubbings Collection Digital Collection Chinese Rubbings Collection The Fine Arts Library and Harvard-Yenching Library holds rubbings of objects that date from the Qin Dynasty to the Ming Dynasty. Collection Facsimiles of Illuminated Manuscripts and East Asian Painting Scrolls Collection Facsimiles of Illuminated Manuscripts and East Asian Painting Scrolls The Fine Arts Library holds facsimiles of illuminated manuscripts representing European, Islamic, Byzantine, and Jewish traditions, as well as facsimiles of Chinese and Japanese paintings from the 10th to 19th centuries. Collection Artists' Books Collection Collection Artists' Books Collection The Fine Arts Library's artists' books collection runs the entire range of artistic expression from the abstract and the conceptual to the personal and the political. Digital Collection Chinese Rubbings Collection Digital Collection Chinese Rubbings Collection The Fine Arts Library and Harvard-Yenching Library holds rubbings of objects that date from the Qin Dynasty to the Ming Dynasty. Collection Facsimiles of Illuminated Manuscripts and East Asian Painting Scrolls Collection Facsimiles of Illuminated Manuscripts and East Asian Painting Scrolls The Fine Arts Library holds facsimiles of illuminated manuscripts representing European, Islamic, Byzantine, and Jewish traditions, as well as facsimiles of Chinese and Japanese paintings from the 10th to 19th centuries. Collection Auction Sales Catalogs Collection Auction Sales Catalogs The Fine Arts Library holds auction sales catalogs from the United States, Europe, and Asia from the 18th century to present day. Collection Media Collection Collection Media Collection The Fine Arts Library’s Media Collection includes CDs, DVDs, and VHS tapes with art-related content. Collection Microform Collections Collection Microform Collections The Fine Arts Library's microform collection provides access to photographs in major international archives and more. Collection Ben Shahn Archive Collection Ben Shahn Archive The Ben Shahn Archive at the Fine Arts Library holds thousands of items related to the artist's work. Show LessShow More Photograph Collections Collection Print and Photograph Collections Collection Print and Photograph Collections The Fine Arts Library's print and photograph collections document works of art, architecture, and material culture from the ancient world to the present day. Collection Middle East and Islamic Photographs Collection Middle East and Islamic Photographs The Fine Arts Library's Middle East and Islamic photo collection documents Islamic art and architecture, as well as ethnographic views that provide cultural context. Collection The Stuart Cary Welch Islamic and South Asian Photograph Collection Collection The Stuart Cary Welch Islamic and South Asian Photograph Collection The Fine Arts Library holds the noted curator’s research slides, documenting four decades of unparalleled access to public and private art collections from around the world. Collection Print and Photograph Collections Collection Print and Photograph Collections The Fine Arts Library's print and photograph collections document works of art, architecture, and material culture from the ancient world to the present day. Collection Middle East and Islamic Photographs Collection Middle East and Islamic Photographs The Fine Arts Library's Middle East and Islamic photo collection documents Islamic art and architecture, as well as ethnographic views that provide cultural context. Collection The Stuart Cary Welch Islamic and South Asian Photograph Collection Collection The Stuart Cary Welch Islamic and South Asian Photograph Collection The Fine Arts Library holds the noted curator’s research slides, documenting four decades of unparalleled access to public and private art collections from around the world. Collection Photographer Archives Collection Photographer Archives The Fine Arts Library's photographic archives include works of former Harvard faculty members, as well as other architectural and ethnographic scholars. Collection Rare Photography Publications Collection Rare Photography Publications The Fine Arts Library's collection of photographic manuals traces the development of photographic technology over time. Show LessShow More Research History of Art & Architecture Research Guide Islamic Art & Architecture Research Guide East Asian Art Research Guide History of Art & Architecture Research Guide Islamic Art & Architecture Research Guide East Asian Art Research Guide Contemporary Art Research Guide Medieval Art & Architecture Research Guide Photography Research Guide Artists’ Books Research Guide Stephen Lee Taller Ben Shahn Archive Research Guide Index to Ming Dynasty Chinese Paintings Show LessShow More Events & Exhibits Exhibitions Daily traces in the artists' books collection Through Friday, Jul 22, 2022 Virtual: Picturing the Sultan Discover images of Ottoman rulers from the 16th to 19th centuries Through Wednesday, Dec 31, 2025 Past Exhibitions MOTIF - A journal for the visual world: February 1 - April 21, 2022 Marcel Broodthaers: The Space of Writing: March 10 - June 5, 2020 Langdon Warner Photographs from the 1924 Dunhuang Expedition: January 2 - March 6, 2020 Picturing the Sultan: Images of Ottoman rulers in the Fine Arts Library’s collections: September 12 - December 20, 2019 New Acquisitions in Dialogue: Palladio: July 7 - September 11, 2019 New Acquisitions Spotlight: Ellen Knudson, Intrusion: June 5 - July 3, 2019 New Acquisitions Spotlight: Richard Tuttle, Early Auden, 1991: May 6 - June 4, 2019 Night Revels of Han Xizai (韩熙载夜宴图):December 18, 2018 - March 15, 2019 Show LessShow More History The Fine Arts Library is the primary resource for the study of the history of art and architecture and related subjects at Harvard University. Fogg Art Museum interior circa 1925 Fine Arts Library Since the founding of the Fogg Art Museum in 1895, the library has served the needs of teaching faculty, art museum staff, undergraduate and graduate students, researchers, and historians. The history of the library is intertwined with Harvard's role in the development of academic programs in art and architectural history and museum studies. With the 1874 appointment of Charles Eliot Norton, Harvard became the first university in the United States to institute a professorship in art history. In 1927, Harvard dedicated a new Fogg Museum building, which was designed to display art in a setting together with classrooms, conservation labs, painting studios, and a research library. In 1962, Widener Library’s arts-related holdings were transferred to an expanded library space within the Fogg Museum. At this time, the Fogg Museum Library became a part of the Harvard College Library and was given its current name, the Fine Arts Library. The Fine Arts Library reading room circa 1951. Fine Arts Library The newly combined collection formed one of the largest art research collections in the United States, serving as a model for other institutions for building their art libraries. Other notable milestones for the Fine Arts Library include: 1978: The Rübel Asiatic Research Collection of the Oriental Department was added to the collection 1979: The library became one of two documentation centers of the Aga Khan Program for Islamic Architecture, located at both Harvard and MIT 1991: The library expanded into the Werner Otto Hall addition on the east side of the Fogg Museum building Fine Arts Library Reading Room in 1982. Fine Arts Library 1999: Harvard’s VIA (Visual Information Access) public image catalog was launched, and the Fine Arts Library began providing digital images to faculty for teaching 2009: During an extensive renovation of the Fogg Museum building, the Fine Arts Library moved to two locations: Littauer Center for the general and special collections and the Sackler building for the Digital Images and Slides Collection. 2017-Present: During a renovation of the Sackler building, the Digital Images and Slides Collection moved temporarily into the Lamont Library Since its beginnings as a museum library more than 120 years ago, the Fine Arts Library has developed its collections and services for a growing community of users in fields across the academic spectrum. Show LessShow More Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.