Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Databases Search Databases Search Subjects -Choose Subject- African American Studies Finance African Studies Anthropology Architecture Archives / Manuscripts Art & Archaeology Asian American Studies Astrophysics Biographical Sources Biological & Life Sciences Byzantine Studies Chemistry Children's Literature Chinese Studies Classics Comparative Literature Computer Science Dance Data and Statistical Services Dissertations/Theses Economics Education Energy Engineering & Technology English & American Literature Environment European Union Documents Film Studies French Language & Literature Geosciences Gender & Sexuality Studies General/Multidisciplinary German Studies Health Hellenic Studies History Images Italian Language & Literature Japanese Studies Judaic Studies Korean Studies Law Latino Studies Latin American & Iberian Studies LGBT Studies Linguistics Mathematics Music Near Eastern Studies Neuroscience Newspapers Philosophy Physics Plasma Physics Politics Population Research Psychology Public Policy Religion Slavic/E.European/Eurasian Studies Sociology South Asian Studies Spanish/Portuguese Literature Special Collections Sports Technical Reports & Grey Literature Theater United Nations Documents United States Documents See All Subjects Starts With: (2) | ( (1) | 1 (2) | 6 (1) | A (216) | B (118) | C (185) | D (94) | E (145) | F (48) | G (70) | H (55) | I (87) | J (33) | K (37) | L (88) | M (112) | N (97) | O (92) | P (156) | Q (7) | R (57) | S (133) | T (66) | U (46) | V (16) | W (78) | X (2) | Y (4) | Z (15) Title A & H Citation Index A&AePortal The A&AePortal is an authoritative eBook resource that features important works of scholarship in the history of art, architecture, decorative arts, photography, and design. Includes many out-of-print titles, key backlist, and recent releases from the world’s finest academic and museum publishers. Also includes peer-reviewed born-digital content, as well as image search functionality that cross references multiple publications contained within the resource. AAPG Datapages Full text access to American Association of Petroleum Geologists publications, including AAPG Bulletin, AAPG Special Volumes, Bulletin of Canadian Petroleum Geology, Journal of Petroleum Geology, Journal of Sedimentary Research. Coverage varies from 1917 to present. Also includes publications by several regional groups. AATA Online Abstracts of International Conservation Literature Abstracts from books, reports, conference proceedings, dissertations, and more, on the conservation and preservation of works of art, material culture and archaeological and architectural sites. Includes all volumes of AATA and its predecessor, IIC Abstracts. ABC CLIO eBook collection Full-text books in humanities, social sciences, gender studies, African American Studies, Latino Studies, and Native American Studies. Also contains the electronic version of The American Slave: A Composite Autobiography, a fully searchable collection of over 4,000 interviews with former slaves. ABI/Inform Worldwide business periodicals. In-depth coverage of business & economic conditions, management techniques, theory, & practice of business, advertising, marketing, economics, human resources, finance, & taxation. ABIA - Index of South and Southeast Asian Art and Archaeology A bibliography dedicated to South and Southeast Asian prehistory, archaeology of the historical period, art, crafts and architecture, inscriptions and palaeography, coins and seals of these regions. ABSEES Abstracts in Anthropology Comprehensive coverage of significant, current scholarship in cultural anthropology, physical anthropology, archaeology, & linguistics. ABYZ News Links Links to online newspapers & other news sources worldwide. Primarily composed of newspapers but also includes many broadcast stations, internet services, magazines, & press agencies. Abzu Database of networked open access data relevant to the study and public presentation of the Ancient Near East and the Ancient Mediterranean world. Academia Sinica Scripta Sinica (Hanji quanwen ziliaoku) Very large database of Chinese works compiled by the Institute of History and Philology, Academia Sinica in Taiwan. Browse subjects and titles using the traditional Chinese siku classification. Academic Search Premier Access to Archives (United Kingdom) Search & browse for information about archives in England, dating from the 900s to the present day. Access UNDP Web-based index to more than 500,000 current and archived United Nations documents and publications. Access UN also provides the full text or links to the full text of more than 35,000 of these documents and publications. Access World News (NewsBank) AccessEngineering McGraw-Hill engineering reference database. Includes major engineering reference works such as Perry's Chemical Engineers' Handbook and Marks' Standard Handbook for Mechanical Engineers as well as advanced tools such as calculators, interactive tables, videos, and data visualisation of material properties. AccessScience (McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science and Technology, 10th ed.) Includes The McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science & Technology 10th edition, McGraw-Hill Yearbooks of Science & Technology, McGraw-Hill Dictionary of Scientific and Technical Terms, and the Hutchinson Dictionary of Scientific Biography. AccessUN (Readex United Nations Index) Comprehensive commercial index to United Nations parliamentary & working documents, monographic publications, & serial titles. Accounting & Tax Accounting and taxation journal articles, dissertations, working papers and newspapers. ACLS Humanities E-Book Project ACLU American Civil Liberties Union Papers 1912-1990 Provides access to the more than 2 million documents contained in the records of the American Civil Liberties Union at the Mudd Manuscript library at Princeton University. ACM Digital Library Collection of citations & full text from ACM (Association for Computing Machinery) journals, newsletters & conference proceedings. A major resource in the field of computing research and education. ACS Directory of Graduate Research Acta Sanctorum Collection of documents examining the lives of saints, organized according to each saint's feast day, & covers the 2 January volumes published in 1643 to the Propylaeum to December published in 1940. Adams Papers Digital Edition Digital edition of the papers of John Adams, second president of the United States. ADS (NASA) Aerospace & High Technology Database Aerospace Database Covers all aspects of applied research in the aerospace and space sciences. Provides indexing and abstracts from current serial and non-serial titles, including content from AIAA and NASA. The database currently includes records from periodicals, conference papers, trade journals, magazines, books, patents and technical reports, with indexing back to the early 1960's. Afghan Central Press Collection The Afghan Central Press collection brings together four national, Kabul-based publications of Afghanistan whose long runs and prominence provide a concentrated vantage point for understanding developments in Afghanistan for much of the twentieth century. The English-language Kabul Times is presented alongside Pushto publications Anīs, Hewād, and Iṣlāḥ. The archives of these newspapers provide a chronicle of events from the fall of the Kingdom of Afghanistan, the establishment of the People’s Democratic Republic of Afghanistan, the Soviet invasion, the rise of the Mujahedeen, the establishment of the Taliban and Al Qaeda, invasion by the United States and the ensuing period of reconstruction from the view of the capital. Afghan Serials Collection This is a collection of partisan serials from the Wahdat Library, a private collection of rare newspapers and journals from Afghanistan. It includes more than 2,500 individual issues of 46 newspapers and journals published in Persian, Pushto, Arabic, Urdu, and English. Documenting the breadth of Afghanistan’s political epochs, the Afghan Serials Collection covers the use of the press by many groups that sought to shape Afghanistan’s social and intellectual landscape including the Communist People’s Democratic Party (PDPA); exiled loyalists to the deposed Afghan monarchy; independent humanitarians and intellectuals seeking to better their country; anti-Soviet mujaheddin groups from a range of political movements; the Taliban; and minority political parties that have emerged following the post-2001 transition towards democracy. Afghanistan and the U.S., 1945-1963: Records of the U.S. State Department Central Classified Files The archival documents found in Afghanistan and the U.S., 1945-1963: Records of the U.S. State Department Classified Files are drawn from the U.S. State Department Central Classified Files. These files are the definitive source of American diplomatic reporting on worldwide political, military, social and economic developments in the 20th century. Topics include political parties and elections, unrest and revolution, human rights, government, labor, housing, public health, religion, and industry. Africa Bibliography Guide to works in African studies published under the auspices of the International African Institute. Africa Development Indicators Social, economic, financial, natural resources, infrastructure, governance, partnership, & environmental indicators on Africa. Africa Knowledge Project Provides access to these journals: JENDa : a journal of culture and African women studies; West Africa review; ProudFlesh : new Afrikan journal of culture, politics and consciousness; Ijele : art ejournal of the African world ; African journal of criminology and justice studies and Journal of African philosophy; and the following databases: Kiswahili story database; African music database and the Biafran War database : Africa's first modern genocide (1967-1970) Africa's Historical Newspapers Provides full-text access to historical newspapers from Africa. Africa-Wide Information Access to journal articles, news articles, reports, and more on Africa and South Africa. (formerly African HealthLine, African Studies, South African Studies) AfricaBib.org: Africana Periodical Literature Free index to articles on a wide range of topics relating to all countries in Africa. Some of the databases included are: Africana Periodical Literature, African Women's literature, Women Travelers, Explorers and Missionaries to Africa, AJOL, and the Library of Congress’s Quarterly Index of African Periodical Literature. Searchable by region, country, subject categories, and by keyword. African American Biographical Database Biographical profiles & extended narratives of African-Americans from all walks of life. Many profiles include photographs & illustrations, and there is a rich collection of full-text African-American reference works. African American Communities Focusing predominantly on Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, New York, and towns and cities in North Carolina this resource presents multiple aspects of the African American community through pamphlets, newspapers and periodicals, correspondence, official records, reports and in-depth oral histories, revealing the prevalent challenges of racism, discrimination and integration, and a unique African American culture and identity. African American Experience Full-text digital resource exploring African American life and culture. Targeted and thematic search options are featured to find articles, documents, images, and more. African American Heritage Primary sources devoted specifically to African American family history, including U.S Federal Census (African Americans only), Freedman's Bank Records, World War I Draft Cards, African American family history books, U.S. Colored Troops Records, vital records, church records, legal records, and more. African American Historical Serials Collection Includes newspapers, magazines, reports, and annuals from various African-American organizations including churches and educational and service institutions. African American Music Reference Brings together text reference, biographies, chronologies, sheet music, images, lyrics, liner notes, and discographies which chronicle the history and culture of the African American experience through music. The database will expand to include coverage of blues, jazz, spirituals, civil rights songs, slave songs, minstrelsy, rhythm and blues, gospel, and other forms of black American musical expression. African American Newspapers Complete text of the major African-American newspapers published in the United States during the 19th century. African American Periodicals, 1825-1995 Online collection of academic and political journals, commercial magazines, institutional newsletters, organizations' bulletins, annual reports and other diverse periodicals. African American Poetry Database Contains nearly 3,000 poems by African-American poets of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries. African American Song African Diaspora, 1860-Present Allows the discovery of the migrations, communities, and ideologies of the African Diaspora through the voices of people of African descent. With a focus on communities in the Caribbean, Brazil, India, United Kingdom, and France, the collection includes primary source documents, including personal papers, organizational papers, journals, newsletters, court documents, letters, and ephemera. African HealthLine Provides access to articles on African and developing country health issues, including AIDS/HIV, malaria, TB, diseases, nutrition, urbanization, water supply, medical systems, traditional medicine and medicinal plants. African Index Medicus (AIM) International index of African health literature produced by the World Health Organization (WHO) and African Partners. Contains electronic access to grey literature, technical reports, theses and dissertations, and medical journal articles published in or related to Africa. Covers 2002+. African Journals Online African Research Online Consists of 2 parts: (1) The African Studies Companion Online contains entries covering guides and resources for African languages, Africa cartography and maps, African film, African studies journals, magazines and newsletters, media guides and news sources for Africa, the African press, African studies library collections worldwide, national archives in Africa, centers of African studies and African studies programs worldwide, awards and prizes in African studies. (2) The Africa Yearbook covers major domestic political developments, the foreign policy and socio-economic trends in sub-Sahara Africa – all related to developments in one calendar year. African Studies African Studies Centre Catalogue (Leiden) Indexes articles and other rmaterials on Africa, focusing on social and economic development. African Writers Series Includes over 250 full text works of African fiction, poetry, drama and non-fictional prose. African-American Newspapers, 1827-1998 Full-text collection of African American newspapers printed across the U.S. during the 19th and 20th centuries. African-American Poetry, Twentieth Century Full-text access to about 10,000 poems from around 70 20th century African American poets. Afro-Americana Imprints Full text of more than 12,000 printed works, including lesser known imprints published from the early 16th to the early 20th century. Afrobarometer Comparative series of national public attitude surveys on democracy, markets and civil society in Africa. Age of Exploration Rare manuscript and early printed material, highly illustrated maps and documents, diaries, and ships' logs that serve as primary sources for study of key events in the history of European maritime exploration from c.1420-1920. Agricola Bibliographic citations to the agricultural literature created by the National Agricultural Library (NAL) and its cooperators. Agricultural & Environmental Science Database Encompasses all aspects of the impact of people and technology on the environment and the effectiveness of remedial policies and technologies. As of 1994, the database also provides coverage of energy-related issues. It covers journals, conference papers and proceedings, special reports from international agencies, non-governmental organizations, universities, associations and private corporations. Other materials selectively indexed include monographs, government studies and newsletters. AHR net (Art History Research Net) An important art and design-related resource containing several resources: ReVIEW (digitized international arts journals from 1830s-1920s), Arts & Architecture ProFiles (information on artists, architects and designers), and Design Abstracts Retrospective (for more current indexing see Design and Applied Arts Index). AIAA Aerospace Research Central Full text electronic library from the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics. Includes journals and meeting papers. AIAA Electronic Library AIP Conference Proceedings Collection of conference proceedings presented at physics related meetings around the world. The database search includes full text for conferences from 1970 to present. AJOL (African Journals Online) Online collection of African-published, peer-reviewed scholarly journals. Akkasah: Center for Photography - NYU Abu Dhabi An online archive of photographs from the Middle East and North Africa, Akkasah explores the histories and contemporary practices of photography in the region. Akkasah investigates these histories and practices of documentary, vernacular, and art photography in the Middle East and North Africa in dialogue with other photographic cultures and traditions from around the world. Al-Ahram Digital Archive Founded in 1875, Al-Ahram is one of the longest-running newspapers in the Middle East. It has long been regarded as Egypt’s most authoritative and influential newspaper, and one of the most important newspapers in the Arab world, with a circulation of over 1 million. Aladin Interactive software sky atlas. Alcohol Studies Database Contains citations indexed by the Rutgers University Center of Alcohol Studies since 1987. Primary focus is on research & professional materials dealing with beverage alcohol, its use and related consequences. While a growing amount of literature on other drug use/abuse has been added in recent years, this material represents only a small percentage of the database and is not indexed to the same depth as the alcohol literature. Alcohol, Tobacco, and Other Drugs Bibliographic Databases and Data Archives International compilation of databases and other online resources. Created to assist in the researching and dissemination of substance abuse, alcoholism, treatment, recovery, and other addictions information. Alexander Street Anthropology Featuring cross-searchable access to the acclaimed Ethnographic Video Online and Anthropology Online collections, Alexander Street Anthropology provides anthropologists, sociologists and cultural historians with an expansive and multifaceted survey of the discipline. allAfrica.com Access to the full text of over 140 African newspapers and magazines, including articles in French. Covers the entire African continent. Allgemeines Kunstlerlexikon An important biographical resource, the online version includes all articles published to date, along with access to the predecessors of the AKL, Allgemeines Lexikon der Bildenden Kunstler von der Antike bis Zur Gegenwart (Thieme-Becker) and for the 20th century, Vollmer. Also includes the AKL's Bio-Bibliographical Index (A-Z), and the Kunstlerlexikon der Antike. Alliance for Audited Media (formerly Audit Bureau of Circulations) Circulation statistics for newspapers, journals, and web publications. Alloy Phase Diagrams Center Alt-Press Watch Full-text database of newspapers, magazines, and journals from alternative and independent presses. Alternative and Underground Press: Popular Culture in Britain and America Digital collection of Alternative and Underground Press publications focused on Vietnam, women's rights, sexual liberation and civil rights in Britain and America. Alternative Energy eTrack Alternative Press Index Indexes radical and left journals covering cultural, economic, political & social change Aluka Online primary source materials and documentation from or concerning Africa. Currently includes materials in these areas: African Cultural Heritage Sites and Landscapes, African Plants, and Struggles for Freedom in Southern Africa. AM explorer Search engine to Adam Matthew archival materals. AMA Manual of Style Amadeus Standardized annual accounts (for up to 10 years), consolidated and unconsolidated, financial ratios, activities and ownership on approximately 24 million companies throughout Europe, including Eastern Europe. Amateur Newspapers from the American Antiquarian Society Extensive collection of amateur publications that were written, edited, and published primarily by young people, aged 12-20, during the second half of the 19th century. Features tens of thousands of issues, and includes editorials, original short fiction, essays, poetry, and more. It provides an abundance of resources for researchers looking to make connections with the era, and provides compelling insights into the ways teens and young adults viewed their hometowns, their country, and the world around them in the 19th century. AMBROSIA Union catalog of the Blegen and Gennadius Libraries of the American School of Classical Studies at Athens and the Libraries of the British School at Athens. America's Historical Newspapers Searchable full-text of historical newspapers including titles from all 50 states. Now includes select coverage of some major papers after 1922 through the mid 1990s. America: History and Life with Full Text Indexes books and journal articles on the history of the United States and Canada from prehistory to the present. American Antiquarian Society (AAS) Historical Periodicals Collection Digital collection of American periodicals published between 1691 and 1877. American Archive of Public Broadcasting (AAPB) Collection of American public radio and television content dating back to the 1950s. American Art Periodicals American Bench Searchable database containing biographical information of over 20,000 federal and state Judges. Also contains information on over 2600 federal and state courts, 3,000 detailed court profiles, and over 100 detailed judicial jurisdictional maps. Updated daily. American Bibliography of Slavic and East European Studies (ABSEES) Covers North American scholarship on East-Central and Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union. Provides access to journal articles, chapter titles, miscellaneous papers, etc. published in the U.S. American Broadsides and Ephemera American Business: Agricultural Newspapers 266 newspapers published in 33 states covering both agricultural and local news. American Business: Mercantile Newspapers 600 newspapers published in 46 states covering business, industry, international trade, and news. American Civil Liberties Union Legal Case Files Index, 1933-1990 [Bulk 1960-1984] This database indexes over 3,600 cases in which the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) was involved to some degree, from the filing of amicus briefs to the full representation of litigants. The case files are part of the American Civil Liberties Union Records: Subgroup 2 1947-1995 held at the Mudd Manuscript Library. American Civil War Collection, 1860-1922 American Antiquarian Society collection of 13,500 titles includes broadsides, lithographs, maps, monographs, pamphlets, photographs, political cartoons, and stereographs. American Civil War Research Database Based on unpublished state rosters, includes information about individual soldiers who fought in the American Civil War. American Civil War: Letters and Diaries, The Includes more than 1,000 diaries, letters, and memoirs from both Northern and Southern politicians, generals, slaves, landowners, farmers, seaman, wives, and even spies. American Doctoral Dissertations, 1933 - 1955 Comprehensive record of doctoral dissertations accepted by American Universities. American Drama Contains 711 plays by American dramatists that chronicle the history and culture of America through its dramatic writing. It includes plays by dramatists such as Thomas Paine, Edward Hitchcock, and James Lawson. American Fiction (1774-1920) Encompasses more than 17,500 works of prose fiction written by Americans from the political beginnings of the United States through World War I, including thousands never before available online. American Film Institute Catalog Authoritative resource of American film information. American Film Scripts Online Contains the full-text of over 1,100 film scripts, and over 430 original images of previously unpublished screenplays. Search options include subjects, character name, writer, film title, actors, and directors. American foreign relations since 1600 : a guide to the literature American Founding Era Cross-searchable digital collection of papers of founders of the United States. Currently includes papers of John Adams, Alexander Hamilton, Andrew Jackson, John Jay, Thomas Jefferson, James and Dolley Madison, John Marshall, Gouverneur Morris, Eliza Lucas Pinckney and Harriott Pinckney Horry, and George Washington. American Gazettes: Newspapers of Record 120 newspapers of record from 35 states providing local facts and figures, official announcements, transaction records, legal decisions, and business notices, as well as covering general news. American Hebrew and Jewish Messenger American History & Culture Online Digital library of works written or published in the United States, as well as items printed elsewhere, that document the history of the Americas from 1492 to the mid-1800s. Based on Sabin's Bibliotheca Americana. American History in Video Digital collection of newsreels from 1942-1964, plus television documentaries from the History Channel and elsewhere. Includes transcripts. American Indian Experience full-text digital resource exploring the histories and contemporary cultures of the indigenous peoples of the United States. American Indian Histories and Cultures Wide variety of materials relating to American Indian history in the United States, Canada and Mexico, from the Newberry Library's Edward E. Ayer Collection. Covers pre-contact through the mid-20th century. American Indian Newspapers Collection of print journalism from Indigenous peoples of the US and Canada. American Israelite American Mathematical Society American Memory (Library of Congress) Provides free and open access through the Internet to written and spoken words, sound recordings, still and moving images, prints, maps, and sheet music that document the American experience. It is a digital record of American history and creativity. These materials, from the collections of the Library of Congress and other institutions, chronicle historical events, people, places, and ideas that continue to shape America, serving the public as a resource for education and lifelong learning. Also see the collections that have not yet migrated. American Men & Women of Science: A Biographical Directory of Today's Leaders in Physical, Biological, and Related Sciences Biographical dictionary of the significant players in the physical, biological and related sciences. Each edition includes biographical entries on approximately 120,000 living scientists, providing birthdate; birthplace; field of specialty; education; honorary degrees; current position; professional and career information; awards; memberships; research information; and addresses for each entrant where available. American National Biography Online Authoritative bios of more than 19,000 prominent people who lived in what is now the United States from the Colonial Period to the present. Everyone included is deceased. Includes bibliographic data on publications by and about these individuals. Search by name orvarious characteristics including gender, ethnicity, occupation, dates. American Pamphlets Series I 1820-1922: From the New York Historical Society Digital edition of pamphlets from the collections of the New-York Historical Society. Includes more than 25,000 short works printed in every region of the United States between 1820 and 1922. American Periodicals American Periodicals Full-text and page images of several hundred American periodicals of the 18th, 19th and early 20th centuries. American Poetry Database Full-text access to over 40,000 poems by over 200 poets. American Poetry, Twentieth Century American Politics: Campaign Newspapers 390 newspapers from 31 states covering presidential campaigns, political parties, and their platforms, usually from a partisan perspective. American Reference Books Annual Online Detailed, qualitative, signed reviews of English-language reference works in any format, back to 1997. Searchable by keyword and broad discipline. American Religion: Denominational Newspapers 401 newspapers from 33 states covering congregational news as well as general news and opinion. American Song American Underworld: The Flash Press, Crime, Scandal, and Blackmail Papers of the Nineteenth Century Sensationalist newspapers focusing on prostitution, gambling, urban gangs, illicit sporting activities, and sensational crimes, from 1826 to 1876. American West Contains original manuscripts, maps, ephemeral material and rare printed sources on the American West from the Newberry Library. AMICO Analecta Carminum Analecta Hymnica Full-text version of the 55-volume edition of 1886-1922, providing a very comprehensive collection of the texts of medieval Latin hymns and other sacred songs, with historical and bibliographical notes. Detailed electronic indexing allows for a variety of complex searches across the volumes. Ancestry Library Has approximately 4,000 databases including key collections such as U.S. Federal Census images & indexes from 1790 to 1940; the Map Center containing more than 1,000 historical maps; American Genealogical Biographical Index; Daughters of the American Revolution Lineage; The Great Migration Begins: Immigrants to New England, 1620-1630; Social Security Death Index; WWI Draft Registration Cards; Federal Slave Narratives; and a strong Civil War collection. ANEMI: Digital Library of Modern Greek Studies Significant collection of digitized books related to early modern Greece. Année Philologique Main index to the scholarship of classical studies published in all languages in both books and journals. Annenberg Washington Program Electronic Library Publications of this nonprofit institute in communication studies of Northwestern University is a neutral forum for examining communications policy Annual Bibliography of English Language and Literature (ABELL) Citations to books, articles, and book reviews. English is to be understood in the broadest international sense. ABELL is an excellent complement to the MLA International Bibliography. Annual Review of Anthropology Comprehensive review of the literature in anthropology. Identifies major tends in the field as well as find general overviews of research in specific subject areas of anthropology. Annual Review of Astronomy and Astrophysics Comprehensive review of the literature in astronomy and astrophysics. Can help students identify major trends in the field as well as find general overviews of research in specific subject areas. Annual Review of Economics Comprehensive review of the literature in economics. Can help researchers identify major trends in the field as well as find general overviews of research in specific subject areas of economics. Annual Review of Financial Economics Comprehensive review of the literature in financial economics. Can help researchers identify major trends in the field as well as find general overviews of research in specific subject areas of financial economics. Annual Review of Neuroscience Comprehensive review of the literature in neuroscience. Can help students identify major trends in the field as well as find general overviews of research in specific subject areas of neuroscience. Annual Review of Nuclear and Particle Science Comprehensive review of the literature in nuclear and particle science. Can help students identify major trends in the field as well as find general overviews of research in specific subject areas. Annual Review of Political Science Comprehensive review of the literature in political science. Can help students identify major tends in the field as well as find general overviews of research in specific subject areas of politics. Annual Review of Psychology Comprehensive review of the literature in psychology. Can help students identify major trends in the field as well as find general overviews of research in specific subject areas of psychology. Annual Review of Resource Economics Comprehensive review of the literature in resource economics. Can help researchers identify major trends in the field as well as find general overviews of research in specific subject areas of resource economics. Annual Review of Sociology Comprehensive review of the literature in sociology. Identifies major tends in the field as well as find general overviews of research in specific subject areas of sociology. Annual Reviews Series of authoritative, analytic reviews in over 50 focused disciplines within the Biomedical, Physical, and Social Sciences. Anselm: Major Works Anselm: Opera Omnia Edited by F.S. Schmitt. Antarctic Bibliography Covers all disciplines related to the Antarctic region research and exploration, including biological and geological sciences, medical sciences, meteorology, oceanography, atmospheric and terrestrial physics, expeditions, logistics equipment and supplies, and tourism. Anthropological Fieldwork Online Anthropology Online Anthropology Plus Worldwide indexing of journal articles, reports, commentaries, edited works, and obituaries in the fields of social, cultural, physical, biological, and linguistic anthropology, ethnology, archaeology, folklore, material culture, and interdisciplinary studies. Anthropology Plus combines Anthropological Literature from Harvard University and the Anthropological Index, Royal Anthropological Institute from the UK. AnthroSource Full text access to peer reviewed journals, newsletters and bulletins through a collaboration between the American Anthropological Association and the University of California Press. Antrhopological Fieldwork Online A digital archive of the papers of prominent anthropologists in the early 20th century, including Victor Turner, Bronislaw Malinowski, Max Gluckman, and Ruth Benedict. APA PsycArticles® Online database containing searchable full-text articles from nearly 80 journals published by the American Psychological Association and allied organizations. APA PsycBooks® Full text in PDF of 1,456 scholarly books and 22,623 chapters as well as 736 classic resources in psychology. Of these, 720 books are published by the APA, including 100 out-of-print books from 1950-2002. APA PsycCritiques® New searchable database of book reviews in psychology. The database replaces APA's respected print journal Contemporary Psychology: APA Review of Books, providing major enhancements, very current reviews, and much more content. APA PsycExtra® PsycEXTRA, a gray literature database, is a companion to PsycINFO. It contains a wide variety of important information in psychology, behavioral science, and health. Most of the content was written for professionals and disseminated outside of peer-reviewed journals. Documents include newsletters, magazines, newspapers, technical and annual reports, government reports, consumer brochures, and more. PsycEXTRA is different from PsycINFO in its coverage, and also in its format, because it includes abstracts and citations plus full text for a major portion of the records. There is no coverage overlap with PsycINFO. APA PsycInfo® Produced by the American Psychological Association, it is the most comprehensive database of psychology. Provides abstracts and citations to the scholarly literature in the behavioral sciences and mental health. APA PsycTests® Extensive collection of items associated with psychological measures, scales, surveys, and other instruments essential to the research needs of professionals, students, and educators across the behavioral and social sciences. APA PsycTherapy® Streaming demonstration videos for teaching and learning psychotherapy techniques. APA Style Central Apabi Newspaper database Set of Chinese newspapers in original format, first date included differs, most start around 2010. Apabi Tupianku (image) database Chinese images in the categories of Chinese art, calligraphy, folk art, red (i.e. socialist) art, unearthed objects, old photographs, ancient design, modern graphic design, historical costumes, rare book illustrations, classical painting manuals, typography, and pattern design. Apartheid South Africa, 1948-1980 Apartheid South Africa makes available British government files from the Foreign, Colonial, Dominion and Foreign and Commonwealth Offices spanning the period 1948 to 1980. The collection includes letters, diplomatic dispatches, reports, trial papers, activist biographies and first-hand accounts that give unprecedented access to South Africa’s apartheid regime. Applied Science & Technology Source Ultimate General science and technology articles from English-language periodicals published in the United States and elsewhere; non-English language articles are included if English abstracts are provided. Aquatic Science & Fisheries Abstracts (ASFA) Includes Proquest ASFA subfiles: Biological Sciences & Living Resources, Ocean Technology, Policy & Non-Living Resources, Aquatic Pollution& Environmental Quality, Aquaculture Abstracts and Marine Biotechnology Abstracts. Aquatic Science & Fisheries Abstracts (ASFA) 3: Aquatic Pollution & Environmental Quality One of the 12 subfiles of Environmental Sciences and Pollution Management, and separately searchable. Covers research and policy on the contamination of oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, and estuaries. Aquatic Science Collection (ProQuest) Aquinas: Collected Works Contains virtually all translations of St. Aquinas (except the Catena Aurea). Marquette edition. Arab Barometer Nonpartisan research network that provides insight into the social, political, and economic attitudes and values of ordinary citizens across the Arab world. It is the largest repository of publicly available data on the views of men and women in the Middle East and North Africa. Arab-Israeli Relations, 1917-1970: The Middle East Online Overview of the political history of the Middle East in the 20th Century, based on primary source documents from the British national archives. Documents the politics, administration, wars and diplomacy of the Palestine Mandate, the Independence of Israel and the Arab-Israeli conflict. Arabic Collections Online Publicly available digital library of public domain Arabic language content with full digital access to thousands of Arabic-language books covering a variety of topics. Arabic Papyrology DataBase Tool enabling access to the editions of Arabic documents written on different material such as papyrus, parchment or paper. Those productive editions are an often unraised treasure for almost every aspect of Islamic history up to the 16th c. A.D. Arcadian Library Online Provides access to online reproductions of rare books and manuscripts held at the Arcadian Library. These are important primary sources for the history, transmission, and reception of early science and medicine in the Middle East and Europe. Texts cover such topics as medicine, natural history, travel, astronomy, and philosophy. Arcanum Digitheca Interdisciplinary database indexing the academic and journalistic press in Hungary. Coverage extends from the late eighteenth century to the present. Archaeological Sites Index ARCHI UK Searchable database of United Kingdom and world archaeological sites. Scroll down to see worldwide sites. Architectural Digest Archive For more recent issues, see the Catalog. Architectural Presentation Boards Contains descriptive information on over 600 architectural presentation boards. Keyword searching retrieves a listing of boards that meet your criteria. Information returned will include a description of the board and the view depicted, and when available, the architect, architectural firm, and other contractor details. The boards typically include floor plans, artistic renderings, and campus footprints. Archive Finder Contains the entire holdings in the National Union Catalog of Manuscript Collections (NUCMC). Current directory of thousands of repositories and over 220,000 collections of primary source materials across the United States, United Kingdom, and Ireland. Archive Grid Index to finding aids and other descriptive information about the holdings of manuscript and archival collections in libraries and research institutions throughout the world. Archive of Americana Archive of Americana Archive of Celtic-Latin Literature Archive-It Provides access to archived versions of Princeton University websites starting from 2015. Archive-It provides browsing capabilities as well as full text search of all websites in the collection. ArchiveGrid Index to finding aids and other descriptive information about the holdings of manuscript and archival collections in libraries and research institutions throughout the world. Archives Direct Document collections from the UK National Archives. Archives of Sexuality & Gender Brings together primary source content on social, political, health, and legal issues impacting LGBTQ communities around the world, including the gay rights movement, activism, the HIV/Aids crisis, and more. Archives Unbound Digital collections of historical material on many topics. Includes manuscripts, printed books and periodicals, and government documents. Material comes from the U.S. National Archives, the U.K. National Archives, and many other libraries and archives. Arctic Science and Technology Information System (ASTIS) Records describing publications and research projects covering all aspects of northern Canada, including earth sciences, life sciences, engineering and technology, renewable and non-renewable resources, politics and government. Aristoteles Latinus Database Aristotle: Collected Works Based on the Revised Oxford Translation of the Complete Works of Aristotle, edited by Jonathan Barnes and published by the Princeton University Press in 1984. Arizona Republican (ProQuest Historical Newspapers) ARL SPEC KITS Gather information from Assocation of Research Libraries member institutions on current research library practices and policies. Online versions of SPEC Kits from 1973 through 2005 (SPEC Kit 1 - 291) are available through the HathiTrust. Art & Architecture Source An important resource containing indexing and/or full-text to hundreds of art, archaeology, architecture, design, media and related journals and books in English and Western European languages, as well as art reproductions and images. Incorporates the H.W. Wilson databases--Art Index, Art Abstracts, Art Full Text, Art Index Retrospective—as well as Art & Architecture Complete and Art Source. Art and Architecture Archive Archive of magazines comprising key research material in the fields of art & architecture. Subjects covered include fine art, decorative arts, architecture, interior design, industrial design, and photography. The magazines are scanned from cover-to-cover and presented as full-color page images. Includes American Craft, Aperture, Apollo, Architects' Journal, Architectural Review, Art Monthly, British Journal of Photography, C, Craft Horizons, Eye: the International Review of Graphic Design, Graphis, Ornament, Print, Sculptors International, Sculpture, Southwest Art and more. Coverage dates vary by title. Art Discovery Group Catalogue A shared catalog to OCLC Worldcat holdings for 50+ important European and other art research libraries. Incorporates Kubikat and SCIPIO. Art Sales Catalogues online Images of complete historical art sales catalogues. Lugt's Repertoire online is the entrance gate to the images of the catalogues, and lists more than 100,000 art sales catalogues from libraries in Europe and the USA. Art Sales Index ARTbibliographies Modern Full abstracts of journal articles, books, essays, exhibition catalogs, PhD dissertations, and exhibition reviews on all forms of modern and contemporary art, with more than 13,000 new entries being added each year. Arte Publico Hispanic Historical Collection Full-text access to historical materials documenting the Hispanic culture of the United States in its written form. ARTFL Project databases (University of Chicago) Includes 3,500 French-language literary, religious, philosophical, political and scientific works from the 12th to 20th centuries. Includes the Tresor de la Langue Francaise dictionary Artifex Press (now called Cahiers d'Art Institute) An online portal and publisher of “digital catalogues raisonnés.” The platform allows these important art publications for major 20th and 21st-century artists to be regularly updated, unlike print counterparts that often take many years to appear due to the effort it takes to be comprehensive. Catalog offerings are regularly being added and individual records by title will appear in the library catalog. Artkhade Provides auction sale (1920s-present) and provenance information with images for all types of fine art and other objects, as well as arms and armor, weapons, musical instruments and games. Its focus is on Africa, Asia, Oceania and the Americas. One can search in French or English, and multiple currencies are available. artlibraries.net (Virtual Catalogue for Art History) Formerly known as Virtueller Katalog Kunstgeschichte, or VKK, this meta-search points to bibliographic records, including periodical articles, exhibition catalogs, conference papers, festschriften, archival, and online resources. Institutions and resources represented include research and educational institutions, museums, and online bibliographies and databases from all over Europe. Artnet Provides access to art auction sales databases, one for Fine Art and Design, and one for Decorative Art and Antiques. Search options include artist (for the former), medium or object type, and auction house or gallery. Art market performance reports may be available to PU affiliates by e-mailing marquand@princeton.edu and noting the desired artist. Arts and Humanities Citaton Index ARTstor Digital library of more than one million images in the areas of art, architecture, the humanities, and social sciences with a set of tools to view, present, and manage images for research and pedagogical purposes. arXiv.org e-Print archive Electronic preprint (e-print) service in the fields of physics, astrophysics, mathematics, non-linear science, computer science, and quantitative biology. ASCE (American Society of Civil Engineers) Online Research Library Full text of more than 33,000 journal articles and proceedings papers from the American Society of Civil Engineers. Asia Pacific: A Reference Corporation World Area Studies Database Provides area coverage (especially for economic development, investment, trade and technological industries) for Northeast Asia and Asia-Pacific. Asia-Studies Full-text Online Database for the study of modern Asia-Pacific. As the exclusive licensee for the region's most prestigious research institutions, Asia-Studies.com brings together thousands of full-text reports covering 55 countries on a multitude of business, government, economic, and social issues. Asian American Drama Full text of plays written by over forty playwrights, and detailed information about productions, theaters, production companies, and other emphemera related to the plays. ASM Alloy Phase Diagrams Center Provides access to more than 30,000 binary and ternary phase diagrams and associated phase data. ASME Standards Collection Full text electronic acccess to all current American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) standards and codes including biomedical devices, Boiler Pressure Vessel Code, construction, cranes and hoists, cutting tools, fasteners, flow measurement, fossil power, machine tools, nuclear, pipeline and piping, screw threads and more. To access, click "Click here to access via institutional account" under the Sign in box in the upper right hand corner. Associated Press Collections Online Archive of published Associated Press news agency reporting, wire copy, and internal correspondence, memos, and documentation from AP bureaus worldwide. Also includes personal papers of some AP staff journalists. Covers roughly the second half of the 20th century. Associated Press Images Collection (AP Images via Ebsco) The Associated Press' photography archive, along with historical images dating back to the 1800s. Also includes audio, graphics and text. Associations Unlimited ASTM Standards and Engineering Digital Library Includes standards and technical information which covers a broad range of engineering disciplines: aerospace, biomedical, chemical, civil, environmental, geological, health and safety, industrial, materials science, mechanical, nuclear, petroleum, soil science, and solar engineering. Astrophysics Data System (NASA) Funded by NASA, ADS maintains 3 bibliographic databases - Astronomy and Astrophysics, Physics and Geophysics, and ArXiv Preprints - containing more than 8.5 million records, and digital scans of archival materials. ATLA Catholic Periodical and Literature Index Citations and abstracts to books, articles, and other material about Roman Catholicism published by Catholics or in Catholic publications. NOTE: This resource has been discontinued by the provider, but the content is still available in the main ATLA Database using the "bibliographies" limiter on searches. ATLA Religion Database with ATLASerials Plus Citations and many full-text articles from religion and theology journals. Atlanta Constitution (1868-1984) Atlanta Daily World (ProQuest Historical Newspapers) Atlanta Journal-Constitution (Newsbank) Atlas of Canada, The Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections Audio Drama: The L.A. Theatre Works Collection Streaming audio collection of more than 300 important dramatic works from the curated archive of the nation’s premiere radio theater company performed by an international array of leading actors. The collection presents classics of the Western canon, modern works by American luminaries, originally commissioned plays, and high profile docudramas by both renowned and emerging playwrights. Indexing and scholarly commentary from experts add background and contextual information for the plays. Augustine: Opera Omnia Based on Corpus Augustinianum Gissene. Edited by Cornelius Mayer. Augustine: Works of St. Augustine English translations of the works of St. Augustine from the New City Press edition. Austen: Complete Works and Letters Austen: Letters Searchable electronic edition of Jane Austen's Letters. Austin American Statesman (ProQuest Historical Newspapers) Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals Indexes journal articles published worldwide on architecture and design, archaeology, city planning, interior design, and historic preservation. Ayer & Son's American Newspaper Annual (N.W.) Find a Subject Librarian Librarians - Select Librarian - Acosta-Rodriguez, Fernando Ambrosone, Ellen Bartelmann, Anya Bivens-Tatum, Wayne Bordelon, Bobray Broch, Elana Coffey, Bobbi Darrington, Jeremy Donatiello, Joann Doshi, Ameet Dressel, Willow Friedman, Rebecca Hatfield, Rex Hatheway, Holly Heijdra, Martin Hollander, David Howard, Sara Hunter, Jennifer Immel, Andrea Jefferson, Charissa Jenkins, David Karl-Johnson, Gabriella Keenan, Thomas Knowlton, Steven Lee, Hyoungbae Linke, Daniel Logan, John Noel, Will Noguchi, Setsuko Pacion, Kelee Schlein, Deborah Schwartz-Soicher, Ofira Scott, Darwin Seufert, Joshua Shawa, Tsering Wangyal St. Pierre, Alain Stahl, Alan Testerman, Meghan Welber, Audrey White, Eric Wild, Emily Report a Problem Let us know about any issues you encounter using our databases. New Databases South Asian Ephemera Collection Khabar Lahariya Southeast Asian Newspapers (Center for Research Libraries - Global Research Network) Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top