Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Reproduction Services John Hay Library The John Hay Library will reproduce Special Collections material to the extent that physical condition and copyright or other legal restrictions permit. Reproductions are provided in electronic format: Low-resolution digital image (200-dpi PDF) High-resolution digital image (300-dpi or 600-dpi; TIFF or JPEG) Procedures All reproduction requests are managed through Aeon. Please be sure to include the following information about the materials in your request: Title and author Call number Catalog record link Box/folder or volume number Any additional information in the Special Request field Reproductions take a minimum of 10 business days from receipt of request. Delivery timeline of reproductions will depend on the digitization queue and the complexity of the request. Researchers using manuscript collections are encouraged to bring a personal camera and may take an unlimited number of photographs. The Library does not charge researchers for onsite digitization. If materials need to be sent to a vendor, there will be associated costs. Staff will notify researchers of any charges in advance of sending materials to a vendor. Physical Condition All reproduction requests must be approved by curatorial and conservation staff. Decisions will take into account the type and condition of the binding, the brittleness of the paper, and the size and fragility of the item. The choice to approve or decline a request rests solely with the Library. Making Research Copies Personal cameras are allowed in the reading room. A KIC Scanner is available at the rear of the reading room. The scanner allows you to email files to yourself or save the files to a USB drive. A HoverCam is available to researchers. This high-resolution document camera attaches to your Windows or Mac computer and allows you to save images directly to your laptop. Personal hand-held copiers and scanners are not permitted. Special Collections Links Home Page Visiting Willis Reading Room Gildor Family Special Collections Reading Room Using Special Collections Register for Access Forms Special Collections Hours Permissions & Publication Reproduction Services Collections A – Z Collection Policy Finding Aids and Catalogs History of Special Collections Center for Digital Scholarship Exhibitions Friends of the Library News FAQ People University Archives Copyright The Library adheres to the provisions of the 1976 Copyright Act and follows the minimum standards of educational fair use established under Section 107 of H.R. 2223 by the Ad Hoc Committee on Copyright Law Revision, the Authors League of America, and the Association of American Publishers, Inc. In applying these standards, the Library will copy up to 10 percent of a copyrighted work if the copy is to be used for the purpose of private study, scholarship, or research. The Library will not copy for the purpose of public performance. Physical condition permitting, the Library will copy more than 10 percent of a copyrighted work only with the written permission of the copyright holder. Multiple copies are not permitted under fair use. For works created since 1978, copyright lasts from the creation of the work until 75 years after the author’s death. For works published before 1978, with a copyright notice, the maximum duration of copyright protection is 75 years. Works published before 1978 without a copyright notice are assumed to be in the public domain. The Library reserves the right to refuse to accept a copying order if, in its judgment, fulfillment of the order would involve violation of copyright law. Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University