Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Special Collections Core Resources Princeton University Library Finding Aids Provides access to finding aids or descriptive inventories for archival records and manuscript collections held within the University Library. Approximately 1,300 finding aids from the Department of Special Collections are now available online and include the Manuscripts Division, Public Policy Papers, and University Archives. Catalog of Princeton University Senior Theses 1926+ List of theses starting in 1926 written by seniors at Princeton University. Not all departments are represented. Princeton University network connected patrons may view most 2014+ theses. For Senior Thesis Searching Tips, see the Mudd Manuscript Library blog post: How to Search for, Find, and View Princeton University Senior Theses Undergraduate Alumni Index, 1748-1920 Index for all undergraduate alumni from the Princeton classes of 1748 to 1920. There is some non-graduate information for individuals through the Class of 1947. Provides the name, class year, and graduation status of alumni, and note if photos or images of the individual exist. It also lists the number of the box in which biographical information can be found within the Undergraduate Alumni Files held at the Mudd Manuscript Library. Undergraduate Alumni Index, 1921-2015 Index for undergraduate alumni from the classes of 1921 to 2015. Provides the name, class year, type of file available, and relevant box number for records found in the Mudd Manuscript Library. Undergraduate records from this period are kept in 2 series: the Bureau of Alumni Records Public Information Files and the Dean of the College Undergraduate Academic Files. Princeton University Graduate Alumni Index, 1839-1998 Index of graduate alumni from 1839 to 1998. Provides the name, graduate school class, department, and death date, if any, of alumni, as well as note if photographs of the individual exist. Please note that for more recent graduates, files may not have yet been transferred to the Mudd Manuscript Library and therefore will not be found in this database. In addition, much, if not all, of living graduates' files are closed to conform with personal privacy law established under the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (the Buckley Amendment) of 1974. These records open 5 years after an individual's death. Princeton Numismatic Collection database Catalog of the coins, medals and tokens, paper money, casts, exonumia in Princeton's Numismatic Collection. Princeton University Historical Audio-Visual Collection 1912-2000 Contains over 1,500 audio-visual items found within the University Archives. Princeton University Historical Photograph Collection 1840s-1996 Contains descriptive information on over 20,000 photographs found within the University Archives Historical Photograph Collection. Princeton Memorabilia Collection 1782-2000 Contains descriptive information on over 1,200 items found within the University Archives Memorabilia Collection. Visuals Database for Graphic Arts Includes prints, drawings, photographs, paintings, sculpture, and other non-book objects in the Princeton University Library collections. Archive-It Provides access to archived versions of Princeton University websites starting from 2015. Archive-It provides browsing capabilities as well as full text search of all websites in the collection. MASC: Manuscripts, Archives, and Special Collections Master author index for more than 1200 archival collections in all units of the Princeton University Library's Department of Special Collections, with entries for more than 23,000 individuals and corporate bodies. This database is maintained locally. MASC has not been actively updated since 2002. Architectural Presentation Boards Contains descriptive information on over 600 architectural presentation boards. Keyword searching retrieves a listing of boards that meet your criteria. Information returned will include a description of the board and the view depicted, and when available, the architect, architectural firm, and other contractor details. The boards typically include floor plans, artistic renderings, and campus footprints. Faculty and Professional Staff Index, 1764-2006 Index for Faculty & Professional Research, Technical & Library Personnel files, 1764-2006. Contains the name, death date, departure date, and department for Princeton University personnel. (Files for some trustees, administrators, and others may also be found.) Access to personnel files is governed by university policy.Explanation of Access to personnel files. Honorary Degree Index, 1748-2001 Lists honorary degree recipients for the years 1748-2001, the date the degree was awarded, the date of the individual's death (if known), the degree received, and the existence of an informational folder in the Honorary Degree Records the Mudd Manuscript Library. For later years see https://vpsec.princeton.edu/honorary-degrees. Nassau Literary Magazine Index, 1842-2015 Nassau Literary Magazine was published on a bi-monthly, quarterly, and semi-annual basis. Contents include short stories, poems, political opinions, and various whimsical writings. Mudd Manuscript Library holds issues from 1842 to the present. This index was created during the magazine's centennial and indexes through 1942 only. Entries are arranged as follows: name, author's class year, title, publication date, volume number, page number. Princeton Alumni Weekly Memorial Index, 1894-2011 Covers all alumni for whom obituaries appeared in thePrinceton Alumni Weekly and its predecessor, the Alumni Princetonian, between April 1894 and July 2011. Includes some faculty and honorary class members. Trustee Index, 1746-2001 Indexes the names of those who have served on the Princeton University Board of Trustees from 1746-2001. Contains dates and type of service, and Princeton class affiliation, if applicable, for each University trustee. Those trustees labeled as current were serving as of 2001. Trustees Minutes, 1746-1894 Lists the general heading, specific subject heading, and the volume and page number for topics which may be found within the first 4 volumes of the minutes of the Board of Trustees (1746-1894). This information was collected from 2 volumes of indices created contemporaneously with the meeting minutes. Therefore, 18th and 19th-century spelling, terms, and usage have not been altered. World War II Memorial Book Provides the name, date and place of death, class year, and rank and branch of service for each Princeton student or alumnus who died in service to his country during the Second World War. Subscribe to updates for Core Resources for Special Collections Research Account Register for access to special collections reading rooms Request and check the status of manuscripts, archives & rare books Find out more about research accounts Access Your Research Account Research Help Library Guide Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top