My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) About the Libraries News News Subscribe to the Libraries' Monthly Newsletter Location All Avery Library Barnard College Library Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Columbia University Archives Columbia University Libraries Copyright Advisory Services Digital Scholarship Digital Scholarship Services Global Studies Jewish Studies Law Library Music & Arts Library Oral History Archives Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library The Burke Library Web Archives Category All In the media News Social Video Year All (2022 - 2016) 2022 2021 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Columbia University Libraries May 25, 2022 News Columbia University Libraries Announces 2022 Outstanding Student Worker Award Winners The Libraries announces 16 recipients of the 2022 Outstanding Student Worker awards, presented annually to students who have demonstrated exceptional commitment to their work for the organization. May 16, 2022 In the media Butler Library in 9,000 Legos "Some people took up jigsaw puzzles during the pandemic... John Davisson, ’08CC, an attorney in Washington, DC, turned to Legos" to construct a 9,000-piece replica of Butler Library, as seen in Columbia Magazine. May 10, 2022 News Ready to Browse in Butler Lounge Butler Library recently transformed empty shelves in the Lounge into a new browsing display that highlights newly-published titles, Columbia authors, and titles curated by Libraries staff and the Columbia community. May 2, 2022 Video, News Columbia Residence Halls Event Hear a presentation about the complex connections between Columbia residence halls and histories of racism and share your owns thoughts about proposals to acknowledge these histories in the built environment of campus. Apr 1, 2022 Video America On Fire: A Conversation on Police Violence & Black Rebellion Since the 1960s [VIDEO] The Lehman Center for American History hosted author Dr. Elizabeth Hinton for a conversation on police violence and Black rebellion since the 1960s with Professor Jelani Cobb of the Columbia School of Journalism. Mar 22, 2022 News Columbia Historian Mae Ngai Reflects on Winning the 2022 Bancroft Prize Columbia historian Mae Ngai reflects on winning the 2022 Bancroft Prize for The Chinese Question, "the first book of Asian American history to be recognized with the Prize." Mar 16, 2022 In the media Histories of Travel Segregation and Chinese Migration Win Bancroft Prize The New York Times reports that scholars Mia Bay and Mae Ngai win the 2022 Bancroft Prize, considered one of the most prestigious awards in the field of American history. Feb 25, 2022 News Free Open Access Publishing with Cambridge University Press Columbia affiliates are now invited to apply to publish in open access journals through Cambridge University Press - free of processing charges! Learn more about the agreement with the NorthEast Research Libraries Consortium. Jan 28, 2022 News Access The Wall Street Journal through Columbia University Libraries Current Columbia University faculty, staff, and students now have full access to content from The Wall Street Journal through the Libraries. Learn how to activate your WSJ.com Pass. Jan 25, 2022 News Ongoing Workshops from Columbia University Libraries The Libraries offers regularly-occurring workshops on key resources, like CLIO, the Libraries' online catalog. Learn more about the sessions, which are typically held via Zoom and are open to all Columbia affiliates. Jan 18, 2022 News Columbia University Libraries Participates in a National Day of Racial Healing The Libraries joins fellow archives and libraries to commemorate the National Day of Racial Healing with resources that honor truth, racial healing, and transformation, including music and oral histories. Jan 5, 2022 News How to Use the FLI Partnership Lending Library for Low-Income or First-Generation Undergrads The Columbia FLI Partnership Lending Library is a collection of textbooks and other course materials available to low-income and/or first-generation students from the University’s undergraduate schools. Oct 20, 2021 News Clean & Go Green: Preparing Your Records for the Shredding Event With the return of Columbia's Clean & Go Green program, a campus-wide recycling drive that will take place in early December, University archivists offer advice to prepare archives and office records for recycling. Oct 19, 2021 News On Outdated and Harmful Language in Library of Congress Subject Headings Archivist Celeste Brewer explains how the Libraries implements meaningful changes to outdated language in subject headings in order to create an affirming searching and browsing experience for all users. Oct 12, 2021 Video Simone Dinnerstein in Butler Library | Live from Columbia Pianist Simone Dinnerstein performs in one of the Libraries' most iconic reading rooms as part of "Live from Columbia: Pop-Ups from Morningside Campus," hosted by the Miller Theatre and the School of the Arts. Oct 8, 2021 Video What's the Indigenous History (Past and Present) of Columbia University? In honor of Indigenous Peoples' Day, curator Roberto C. Ferrari joins Columbia students, faculty, and staff to reflect on the indigenous scholarship that takes place across the University community. Sep 21, 2021 News Access The New York Times through Columbia University Libraries Current Columbia University faculty, staff, and students now have full access to content from The New York Times through the Libraries. Learn how to activate your NYTimes.com Pass. Sep 16, 2021 News Exploring Podcasting and Journal Publishing with the Columbia Community The Digital Publishing program invites students and faculty across the Columbia community to partner with the Libraries to publish research through the Podcasting and Journal Publishing programs. Sep 8, 2021 News ReCAP Expands Access to 3.6 Million More Volumes Columbia University faculty, students, and staff now have access to 3.6 million volumes held by Harvard University through the Research Collections and Preservation Consortium (ReCAP) partnership. Sep 8, 2021 News Columbia Quest | Scavenger Hunt With University Life, the Office of the President, and the Welcome Home Columbia Planning Committee, the Libraries welcomes new and returning students and invites you to participate in the Columbia Quest Scavenger Hunt! Aug 17, 2021 News Miller Theatre: Live from Columbia Digital Performances The Libraries partners with the University's Miller Theatre and the School of the Arts to present "Live from Columbia: Pop-Ups from Morningside Campus," a series of free, digital performances by world-class musicians. Aug 9, 2021 News Stacks, Circulation, ETAS and More: What’s Happening August 17 and Beyond As the Libraries plans to restore select services for the Fall term, important changes to library access and borrowing procedures will take effect on August 17, including the reopening of library stacks. Aug 4, 2021 In the media Amusements, Movies, and the Great Outdoors: Summertime Fun with H.P. Lovecraft Postcards from the Libraries' special collections showcase "amusements, movies, and the great outdoors" that writer H.P. Lovecraft visited during the summer of 1925, including the Vale of Cashmere in Prospect Park. Jul 26, 2021 In the media British Library Medieval Manuscripts Blog: A Letter of Recommendation Split between Two Continents How curators in the Rare Book & Manuscript Library virtually reunited half of an ancient papyrus letter that dates to 6 A.D. with its companion, held by the British Library in London. « 1 » Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian