Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search MUSEUM OF COMPARATIVE ZOOLOGY | HARVARD.EDU HOME Services Circulation Reference Interlibrary Loans Special Collections and Archives Other Services Scholarly Resources Digital Resources E-journals MCZ Reading List New Books New Books Gallery Latest Journals Digital Collections Online Special Collections Burkhardt Collection Burkhardt Scientific Drawings Thayer Expedition Papers Thomas Barbour Travel Images Alexander Agassiz's Expedition and other images Contributions to the BHL Flickr Gallery William Brewster Papers About the Library Directions to the Library Library Mission Collaborations Library Staff History of the Library The Library Turns 150! Ernst Mayr Biography MCB Library Exchange Program EML Blog HOME / SERVICES / Interlibrary Loans Borrowing Using Harvard Library Resource Sharing, the Ernst Mayr Library can borrow books and acquire articles from other libraries for faculty, staff and students. There is no fee for this service for Harvard affiliates. The Library also participates in the Scan & Deliver, Borrow Direct and Harvard Direct services. Requests may be placed directly through HOLLIS+. For items in the collection, such as specific journal volumes, that do not appear in the list of available items in HOLLIS+, contact the library to see if they are available and may be made available for request through HOLLIS+. Lending The Ernst Mayr Library, via Harvard Library Resource Sharing, lends books and provides photocopies to other libraries and institutions, subject to the policies below. Interlibrary Loan (ILL) requests may be submitted on official ALA or IFLA forms, via OCLC (symbol HLS), or sent by: - Interlibrary Loan email - Mail: Widener Library G-30 Cambridge, MA 02138 - Phone: 617-495-2972 - Lending web form for non-OCLC libraries OCLC symbol: HLS *Note that not all library materials circulate. Other Services Scanning and copying of microfilm, or photographic reproductions of library or archival material are available on request. Contact the library for details. Search Reference Assistance E-mail your request for reference assistance. Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement