CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Publication & Digital Reproduction Policy & Procedures A central mission of Columbia University Libraries (CUL) is to make its collections available in support of research and scholarship by members of the Columbia University community and others. In order to support research and scholarship, CUL seeks to reduce or eliminate restrictions for the research and educational uses of the CUL collections, including the reproduction and publication of materials found in the collections. However, CUL and users of the Libraries must respect copyrights and other legal rights held by other parties that may affect the use of materials in the collections. Therefore, CUL provides services on the following terms for purposes of supporting teaching, research, and other scholarship. This statement applies only if the use of materials is principally for research and scholarship. Uses that are principally for commercial purposes may be subject to separate agreement between the user and the specific Columbia library holding the materials of interest. Please click here for more information about publication and digital reproduction for commercial and other purposes. Reproduction of Materials from the CUL Collections Reproduction by Users Users are responsible for reproductions and other uses that they may make of materials from the CUL collections. Reproduction by CUL Librarians and Staff CUL offers various reprographic services upon request. CUL has the discretion to make or not make the copies, and will do so only in a manner consistent with copyright law and any other obligations, and consistent with the conservation and managerial practices of CUL. Individual libraries at Columbia may set fees and terms for such services. Reproduction Fees A primary objective of any research library is to make its resources as widely available as possible. Reproductions are one way that CUL seeks to accomplish that goal, by digitizing or otherwise copying as many materials as possible, including through sustained projects. Time and resources are, however, limited, and CUL holds many millions of items. Patrons often seek copies of materials that CUL has not yet addressed, for reasons ranging from casual reference to publication. CUL is happy to provide an on-demand copying service to assist those patrons. CUL subsidizes the cost of patron reproductions, but does ask that patrons help to defray part of the cost, which in turn helps to sustain the CUL digital library program. When CUL digitizes any item, no matter the reason, it is in the best interest of the item to do it once and do it well. Subjecting fragile, sometimes unique, materials to the repeated handling associated with scanning risks damage to the materials. CUL therefore captures high-resolution, archival quality images and places them in its digital archive for long-term preservation to assure that it is available to future users. Each patron pays for a high-resolution copy of an item that Columbia owns and preserves. CUL may subsequently upload a lower resolution version of the file to its own website or to other sites such as Flickr or Internet Archive for free public access. Patron copy requests thus are helping to build the digital corpus that is shared among researchers internationally. Please click here for Procedures for Requesting Reproductions. Publication & Other Uses of Materials from CUL Collections General Position In order to reduce barriers to the dissemination of research conducted in its collections, CUL will ordinarily not set conditions on publication of materials from the CUL collections in connection with scholarship. CUL does not hold the copyright to most materials in the collections, and CUL will neither grant nor deny copyright permission regarding such materials. Columbia University Holds the Copyright If Columbia University or any affiliated party holds the copyright or other legal rights in materials, the appropriate Columbia office may set standards and terms for the use of such materials. Materials or Services are Subject to Contract or Other Obligation Some materials in the CUL collections are subject to contractual obligations or other restrictions on use. Users are responsible for inquiring about such conditions and using materials in an appropriate manner. Please click here for examples of how this policy may apply in various situations. Acknowledgment CUL asks all researchers who use its collections to cite accurately and to acknowledge and give appropriate credit to the specific library within CUL for supporting their research. Please click here for a list of library contacts. Further Information For additional information about copyright law as it is relevant to education, research, and scholarship, visit the website of the Copyright Advisory Office based at CUL (www.copyright.columbia.edu). Users should seek independent advice on all legal matters. Version: October 26, 2009 Approved by Management Committee, November 18, 2009 Related Information Publication and Digital Reproduction for Commercial and Other Purposes, and for Large-scale Initiatives Procedures for Requesting Reproductions Information about Copyright Law as it Pertains to Education, Research, and Scholarship Sidebar Columbia University Libraries Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Map: Libraries Map » Access & Borrowing Links Library Information Office Accessing the Libraries Borrowing & Renewing Materials Library Services Links Request Items Services & Tools Visitors Course Reserves Study Spaces Disability Services Preservation & Digital Conversion Division Libraries Website Search CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.