Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Architecture Library Architecture Library Skip to Main Content Section Menu Home Services Research Support Staff Today's Hours 9:00am - 5:00pm For summer, holidays or recess hours, please consult the full schedule. Contact Us Architecture Building ues@princeton.edu (609) 258-3256 About The School of Architecture Library supports the research and teaching needs of the School and is part of the larger Princeton University Library system. Our holdings specialize in modern and contemporary architecture and design, the history and theory of architecture, urban studies, landscape architecture, preservation, and city planning. The collection constitutes approximately 35,000 volumes on-site with thousands more housed in the Research Collections and Preservation Consortium (ReCAP) facility. The library subscribes to more than 300 domestic and foreign periodicals, and has a growing collection of rare materials as well as a video collection. The video collection focuses broadly on productions relating to the built environment. We collect experimental videos, interviews, features, documentaries, and cult classics. The Video Library (formerly the Humanities Resource Center), located in Firestone Library, also offers a wide range of films listed in the library catalog. Featured Resources Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals Design and Applied Arts Index ARTbibliographies Modern RIBA British Architectural Library Catalogue Online Urban Studies Abstracts Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top