Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog How to... Learn Remotely for Harvard Students Participating in a Harvard class remotely? Harvard Library can help. Get Help Digital Materials Media help University Resources This semester, we're here to help students in remote classes connect seamlessly with library staff, access online course materials, and collaborate across the University. Check out HUIT's Zoom tips and network troubleshooting tips. GET HELP Looking for immediate help from our staff? Find answers to commonly asked questions and ask your own. Ask Us Our staff of experts is here to help you find online sources and get the most out of new technologies for online learning. Together we'll figure out a plan to get what you need to complete your assignments and participate fully in class discussions. Service Research Consultations Get personalized guidance from one of our library specialists online or in-person—no question is too small. Service Librarians for First-Year Students First-year students are assigned a librarian to help you make the most of all the library has to offer during your first undergraduate year. Service Library Liaisons Make an appointment with a library liaison to get the help you need to get your work done. See all services & tools Take a class or workshop Looking for tips on using HOLLIS, learning about the latest citation tools, or making the most of our collections or services? There's a library class for you. Find a workshop FIND COURSE MATERIALS ONLINE Use these services and tools to easily access the materials and resources you need, from anywhere in the world. We're working with faculty to make sure that course reserves are available online for students. Service Course Reserves We work with faculty and instructors to help provide students with access to course materials. Tool Lean Library Use this browser extension to seamlessly access Harvard Library resources from anywhere on the web. Service Scan & Deliver Request library materials—from book chapters and periodicals to special collections and ephemera—and we will digitize and send them to your inbox. SEE ALL SERVICES & TOOLS Digital subscriptions Use your HarvardKey to access these journals and resources online. If you're not sure whether Harvard Library has a subscription, try our Lean Library. Additionally, due to COVID-19, some publishers are making their content freely available, learn more in our guide to COVID-19 Open-Access Resources. Tool HathiTrust Connect with digitized materials from libraries around the world. Tool University Press Scholarship Online Get online access to recent books from Oxford, Chicago, Columbia, Edinburgh, Liverpool, Manchester, Stanford, Yale, and more. Tool De Gruyter/University Press Library Get online access to titles from Columbia, de Gruyter, UPenn, and the University of Toronto, as well as from Harvard University Press. Tool O’Reilly Learning Platform Online access to ebooks and videos that cover a variety of information technology topics. Tool Project Muse Online access to an extensive collection of scholarly work in the humanities and social sciences. Tool Washington Post Set up an account to access WashingtonPost.com and connect to other collections of WashingtonPost.com materials. See all e-resources Discover digital collections Harvard Digital Collections provides free, public access to more than 6 million objects digitized from our collections - from ancient art to modern manuscripts and audio visual materials. Search digital collections Get Multimedia Help Whether you’re working on a podcast, a video, or want to incorporate some data visualization into your project, our staff members are available to provide remote support. To request an appointment, email us information about what you’d like to do and we will pair you with an appropriate specialist. We are happy to work with individuals or small groups. Troubleshooting something right now? Virtual Media Help Desk Service Remote Media Help Looking for remote help with video, podcasting, AR/VR, visualization, or other media? The media& group is here to help. Service Visualization Support Get help and training with data visualization design and tools—such as Tableau—for the Harvard community. Service Digital Mapping and GIS Support Get help with maps, mapping, geographic information systems, and other geospatial tools, as well as cartographic design. See all services & tools University Resources Partner sites from across the University have information to help you participate in class remotely — learn about using Canvas, Zoom, Panopto, and other resources. Learn Remotely Academic Technology Group Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.