Skip to main content For COVID-19 vaccine updates, please review our information guide. For patient eligibility and scheduling availability, please visit VaccineTogetherNY.org. Enter the terms you wish to search for. Select Search Option This Site All WCM Sites Directory Menu Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach I am interested in... Wayfinder menu Ask Us Chat Now ITS Website Hours Weill Cornell Medicine Samuel J. Wood Library Explore this Website I am interested in... Wayfinder menu Ask Us Chat Now ITS Website Hours Home Visitor InformationToggle Visitor Information menu options Circulation and Renewal Cornell University Alumni Cornell University Visitors WCM/CU Visitors at Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar The Health Professionals Access Program Public/Visitors Reserve an ItemToggle Reserve an Item menu options Reserve an Easel Proctoring Weill Cornell Visitors at Ithaca/Geneva Access and Privileges - COVID Information Alumni Services Center Alumni Council Information for WCM Summer Program Students Notary Public Service Remote Access to Library Resources Weill Cornell Alumni Inside the LibraryToggle Inside the Library menu options 24/7 Study Space Collaboration RoomToggle Collaboration Room menu options Reserve the Collaboration Room Computers in the Library Library Computer LabsToggle Library Computer Labs menu options Reserve the Computer Lab Food and Drink Rules for User Conduct Phone Use in the Library Print and Photocopying Wireless Access Software in the Library Research SupportToggle Research Support menu options Research Funding Resources Interlibrary Loan and TripSaver Bibliographic Management Tools Subject GuidesToggle Subject Guides menu options By Topics Ask a Reference Question Duplicating Services Grant Editing IACUC Protocol Support Karger Open Access Library Scientific Software Hub Scholarly Profile Management and Publications Reporting eCommons: Weill Cornell's Institutional Repository ArchivesToggle Archives menu options About UsToggle About Us menu options Policies Cornell Medical Index Archives Blog History of the InstitutionsToggle History of the Institutions menu options Historical Timeline NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Weill Cornell Medical College Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences Cornell University-New York Hospital School of Nursing Lying-In Hospital Manhattan Maternity and Dispensary New York Asylum of Lying-In Women New York Infant Asylum New York Nursery and Child's Hospital Nursery and Child Hospital History of the Medical CenterToggle History of the Medical Center menu options Historical Beginnings Departmental Timelines Medical Center Highlights Medical Center Buildings Image Collections Digital Historical Publications Personal Papers and Manuscripts Institutional Archives Historical Patient Records SMARTDeskToggle SMARTDesk menu options Software in the Library Computers in the Library About UsToggle About Us menu options Snake Oil to Social Media: Drug Advertising & Your HealthToggle Snake Oil to Social Media: Drug Advertising & Your Health menu options The History of Drug Advertising The Food and Drug Administration: the Continued History of Drug Advertising Modern Drug Advertisements, Themes & FDA Regulations Empower Yourself - Ask & Learn! About Us, Downloadable Content & Works Cited Art in the LibraryToggle Art in the Library menu options Past Shows Art Show Guidelines Current Shows Records and MissionsToggle Records and Missions menu options Balanced Scorecard Confidentiality of Library Records Policy Donate to the Library - the Honor with Books Program Mission Statistics Tell us your Library Story News and AnnouncementsToggle News and Announcements menu options Annual Report and Publications Affiliated Institutions and Departments Staff All Library Forms Career Opportunities and Internships Hours PoliciesToggle Policies menu options Internet Access and Computer Use Policy Samuel J. Wood Library Staff Publications Ask Us Mobile Apps Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Home Visitor Information Inside the Library Research Support Archives SMARTDesk About Us Ask Us Mobile Apps Home Visitor Information Cornell University Visitors Circulation and Renewal Cornell University Alumni Cornell University Visitors WCM/CU Visitors at Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar The Health Professionals Access Program Public/Visitors Reserve an Item Proctoring Weill Cornell Visitors at Ithaca/Geneva Access and Privileges - COVID Information Alumni Services Center Alumni Council Information for WCM Summer Program Students Notary Public Service Remote Access to Library Resources Weill Cornell Alumni Cornell University Visitors Faculty, Staff and Students Welcome Cornell University faculty, staff and students visiting Weill Cornell! The staff and resources of the Samuel J. Wood library at Weill Cornell Medicine are available to you to support your research, learning and practice. Faculty, staff, and enrolled students from any Cornell University (CU) campus are eligible to enter the Samuel J. Wood library and register to borrow materials from the library. A current Cornell University ID card must be presented to enter the library and also at the circulation desk to register for borrowing privileges. Verification of status will be made via CU's online directory, and both local and campus addresses must be provided. Once verified, registration information will be entered into our online system and you will be good to go! The Samuel J. Wood library's loan periods differ from those at Cornell Ithaca. Books circulate for four weeks, journal volumes circulate for either two days or three hours, depending on the publication year. Single issues of current journals circulate for three hours. Library material must be renewed or returned on time. Items can be renewed online, by logging with your cwid using the "sign in" link at the upper right corner of the page, by phone: (646) 962-2570, or in person at the medical library. If necessary, items borrowed from the Samuel J. Wood library may be returned to any Cornell University campus library. To ensure that your patron record is cleared, please advise the library staff that you are returning item(s) from the medical library, so that they may document the item's return date and forward it. Accessing Electronic Resources The electronic collections available to the Cornell community vary among campuses and branches. While using a computer on the Weill Cornell Medicine network, you will be able to access all resources licensed for the medical library. If you are unable to access a Cornell University resource, you may need to login as a remote user. For technical issues and requirements for Cornell University users, please visit Connect from Off-Campus. Searching the Online Catalog The Cornell University Library catalog does not include the collection of the Weill Cornell Medical Library or the eLibrary in Qatar. Search for materials at the Samuel J. Wood library using One Search, the online combined catalog of the libraries of Weill Cornell, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, and Rockefeller University. Only on-site or remotely authenticated users will be able to follow links into licensed resources such as e-books, e-journals and databases. If you want to search for materials across all Cornell University libraries, use Find It or WorldCat as resources. Copying and Printing at the Library Please visit Printing and Photocopying for more information. Using Your Laptop in the Library Wireless access to the Weill Cornell Medicine network is available in the Medical Library for Ithaca Campus Visitors with laptops. Connect to wireless network Eduroam using your Ithaca NetID and password. More information is available from Wireless Access. Consulting with an Expert Staff Member The library staff is here to help with your information needs. Ask a reference or search question of the medical library using our online form or via phone: (646) 962-2570. Take advantage of instructional opportunities, consultations and online training materials from Weill Cornell. If you'd like reference help from one of the Cornell University libraries, request a consultation. Finding Research Collaborators and Resources Use VIVO, the Virtual Life Sciences Library, to discover who's working on a particular research topic, where they've taught and published recently, what facilities are available, and what online tools can expedite your research. Alumni Alumni of Cornell University are extended access to the Samuel J. Wood library at Weill Cornell Medicine. Eligible persons must register for an access-only card at the library's SmartDesk in order to verify alumni status through the Cornell Alumni Office. Once confirmed, you will be issued a card that must be presented each time you enter the library and will allow you to automatically open the library gates. For more information, please visit Cornell University Alumni. Others Persons holding "Privilege Cards", or any other affiliate or pay-for-access card issued by Cornell University Library, are not eligible for access to the Samuel J. Wood library at Weill Cornell Medicine. If you are a New York State licensed health professional and need access to the library, please enroll in the Health Professional Access Program. For additional information, please contact the library's SmartDesk: (646) 962-2570. Need Help? Chat with Us Contact Us Help Staff Directory Access Relevant ITS Services Follow Us On Facebook Twitter Jump To Top Our Location Weill Cornell Medicine Samuel J. Wood Library Contact Us Twitter Facebook Samuel J. Wood Library & C.V. Starr Biomedical Information Center 1300 York Avenue New York, NY 10065 Phone: SMARTDesk: (646) 962-2570 Open until 12am Visitor Information Circulation and Renewal Cornell University Alumni Cornell University Visitors WCM/CU Visitors at Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar The Health Professionals Access Program Public/Visitors Reserve an Item Proctoring Weill Cornell Visitors at Ithaca/Geneva Access and Privileges - COVID Information Alumni Services Center Alumni Council Notary Public Service Remote Access to Library Resources Weill Cornell Alumni Inside the Library 24/7 Study Space Collaboration Room Computers in the Library Library Computer Labs Food and Drink Rules for User Conduct Phone Use in the Library Print and Photocopying Wireless Access Software in the Library Research Support Research Funding Resources Interlibrary Loan and TripSaver Bibliographic Management Tools Subject Guides Ask a Reference Question Duplicating Services Grant Editing IACUC Protocol Support Karger Open Access Library Scientific Software Hub Scholarly Profile Management and Publications Reporting eCommons: Weill Cornell's Institutional Repository Archives About Us Archives Blog History of the Institutions History of the Medical Center Image Collections Digital Historical Publications Personal Papers and Manuscripts Institutional Archives Historical Patient Records SMARTDesk Software in the Library Computers in the Library About Us Snake Oil to Social Media: Drug Advertising & Your Health Art in the Library Records and Missions News and Announcements Affiliated Institutions and Departments Staff All Library Forms Career Opportunities and Internships Hours Policies Samuel J. Wood Library Staff Publications Ask Us Mobile Apps Care. Discover. Teach. With a legacy of putting patients first, Weill Cornell Medicine is committed to providing exemplary and individualized clinical care, making groundbreaking biomedical discoveries, and educating generations of exceptional doctors and scientists. Weill Cornell Medicine NewYork - Presbyterian © Weill Cornell Medicine. Privacy & Legal Careers Giving Directory Web Accessibility Assistance