Skip To Content University Libraries About Us Welcome from the Dean Welcome from the Dean Julie Mosbo Ballestro, Interim Dean of University Libraries Aggieland is a special place and Texas A&M is one of the finest universities in the country. Of course, the teaching and research that goes on in the colleges and academic departments are the primary reasons for this distinguished reputation. But another reason is the rich, diverse and extraordinary collections at the University Libraries. The Libraries resources and services enable and support the University missions of teaching, research and service. Because the A&M Library resources are, indeed, so rich it's impossible for me to summarize them in a brief welcome message. I encourage you to explore our resources and discover them but as you do so, remember that the Libraries is more than the one large (and perhaps a bit imposing) building, Evans Library. The Business Library and Collaboration Commons (BLCC) serves primarily the Mays College of Business; the Medical Sciences Library (MSL), just across the parking lot from BLCC, serves primarily the Health Sciences Center. The Policy Sciences & Economics Library (PSEL), near the George Bush Presidential Library and Museum, serves primarily the Bush School of Government & Public Service. Also, Cushing Memorial Library and Archives, which is connected to Evans Library, houses our archives and special collections. Cushing has some extraordinary materials of national and international scope and distinction. Remember that all these facilities, while they have particular missions and services, are open to all University faculty and staff. Indeed, you will find that the people who work in these libraries are especially delighted when people from other schools and subject areas discover the wonderful collections and services that they offer. We have made exceptional investments in our electronic resources coupled with tools, such as our "quick search" discovery service, that will enable you to discover articles and other resources that will give you a quick start through the identification of quality articles, vetted and tested by scholars and scientists for authenticity and validity that meet high standards of quality both in content and presentation. If you're used to the typical results from a google search, well, all I can say is welcome to a new world! You are about to discover a much deeper, richer and more informed universe of information resources. But it's not all about our electronic resources as we have a rich legacy of print materials many of which are simply unavailable in electronic form. But I've saved the best for last: perhaps the most important resource of all is the Librarians and staff you will find in the A&M libraries. I hope you are introduced to some of these talented professionals in your classroom giving a presentation on how to find resources for your assignment. But no matter your need for information, the time or the context, do not hesitate to text, chat, email or contact us in person with your questions. In our mission/vision statement, we describe the Libraries as the indispensable hub of discovery, learning and creativity. I like this image a great deal and I want you to know that the Libraries is committed to working and helping you in your journey of discovery, learning and creativity. Support the Libraries AskUs anything at anytime. Chat with Us Call Us Text Us @ 979-256-1091 Email Us About the Libraries Quick Phone & Mailing List Directory | Find my Librarian Employment Diversity Matters Site Map | Site Search Follow Us Facebook Twitter You Tube Instagram