Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog How to... Manage Harvard University Records Guiding staff, faculty, and administrators on how to manage their records. Records Management Services Records Guidance Workshops Records Management Services Records Management Services, a department of Harvard University Archives, provides guidance to University staff, faculty, and administrators on how to understand their responsibilities for stewarding and managing their records. The Harvard Corporation defines a University record as “recorded information regardless of physical characteristics, created, received, recorded, or legally filed in the course of University business.” Harvard's records—one of the University's most valuable assets—serve as evidence of the University’s organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, and other activities. The Harvard University Archives is charged with the responsibility of ensuring “the prudent maintenance and efficient disposition of University records, consistent with sound archival standards, budgetary considerations, and legal obligations.” The University Archives' Records Management Services staff work in partnership with the archives and records management programs at the Harvard Business School and the Center for the History of Medicine at the Countway Library at Harvard Medical School. Records Management Services Harvard University Archives Pusey Library, Harvard Yard Cambridge, MA 02138 United States Directions email: archives_rms@harvard.edu Phone number 617-495-5961 How To Transfer Your Historically Significant Records to the University Archives We collaborate with Harvard offices, programs, research centers, libraries, and museums to preserve records that reflect our history and community. How To Donate Your Materials to the Harvard University Archives Work with the Harvard University Archives to add your materials to Harvard’s intellectual, cultural, social, religious, and administrative history Tool General Records Schedule A tool to help faculty, staff and administrators identify the types of records they may have in their offices and how long to archive and keep them. Service Offsite Records Storage Need to retain University records? Learn how to set up an account with Records Management Services and work with the Archives to arrange for storage at the Harvard Depository. University Records Guidance The University's records policies are designed to ensure that University records are retained for as long as is necessary. When records are no longer needed, the policies provide guidance on how and when to transfer records to the University Archives or arrange to have them destroyed. Included below are quick links to records guidance and Records Management forms. In-Office Records Management Using the General Records Schedule (grs.harvard.edu) E-Mail Management Guide (PDF) Scanning Project Decision Tree (PDF) Managing the Records of Departing Employees (PDF) PDF/A Instructions (PDF) Tips for Office Clean Ups and Moves (PDF) Faculty Guidelines (PDF) Offsite Records Storage Storing Records at the Harvard Depository Records Center Checklist (PDF) Records Center Account Contract (PDF) Records Center Storage Deposit Form (PDF) Records Center Box Folder List (excel) Tips for Managing a Records Center Account (PDF) Box retrieval form Box refile form Empty box and barcode request form Adobe E-Fill and E-Sign Instructions (PDF) Transferring Historically Significant and Permanent Records to the Archives Transfer your Historically Significant Records to HUA Archives Box Folder List (excel) Archives Transfer Authorization (PDF) Box Label Template (word) Destroying Records Records Destruction Guidelines (PDF) In-office Records Destruction Form (PDF) Workshops Records Management Services offers workshops on popular records management topics. The workshops deliver practical advice that can be implemented in your office and are appropriate for all University employees. Workshops are open to employees from offices and departments in Central Administration, the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, and Graduate Schools in Cambridge. Please note that local records management services are provided at HMS/HSDM/ChanSPH and HBS and training sessions offered for departments and offices are located at these schools. For HMS/HSDM/ChanSPH, please contact the Archives and Records Management Program at Countway Library. For HBS, contact HBS Archives Program. Trash or Treasure: Guidance on Retaining Your Office Records Objective: Have you ever wondered, "How long do I need to keep my office records? Can I throw them away when I am done with them?" This workshop provides tools and advice to help you determine how long to keep your records and what to do when you no longer need to hold onto them. Whether you feel like you’re drowning in information or you're concerned that you're keeping records too long or not long enough, this workshop is for you. Length: 1 ½ hours Who should attend: All employees who want to effectively manage their office's administrative or program records. What you will learn: What the resources are to help determine how long to keep your office records What to do with records when they are no longer needed by your office How to use Harvard's guide for records commonly found across the University Out of Sight: Off-site Records Storage Objective: This workshop will present the step-by-step process of sending records to off-site storage at the Harvard Depository. We cover everything from how to pack a box to how to complete the deposit paperwork. Length: 1 ½ hours Who should attend: Employees who have not yet sent records to storage as well as anyone in charge of packing and depositing boxes who would like a refresher course. What you will learn How to identify records eligible for storage How to pack and label boxes correctly How to complete the paperwork and expedite your deposit How to recall records back to your office Note: You should be familiar with the General Records Schedule (GRS) and how to apply it to your records before taking this class. If you have not used the GRS, register for our Trash or Treasure workshop. Email Management & Retention Objective: This workshop will introduce methods for gaining control of email and managing it according to Harvard records policies as well as provide tips on how to organize your email. Length: 1 ½ hours Who should attend: All employees who want to effectively manage their email. What you will learn Methods of controlling email The application of the General Records Schedule to email Examples of types of email with their appropriate retentions Note: You should be familiar with the General Records Schedule (GRS) and how to apply it to your records before taking this class. If you have not used the GRS, register for our Trash or Treasure workshop. The next round of workshops will be held via Zoom in June and July 2022. Please check back closer to then to register. Upcoming Workshops Trash or Treasure: Guidance on Retaining your Office Records Workshop Thursday, Jun 16, 2022 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Harvard University Archives Out of Sight: Offsite Records Storage Workshop Thursday, Jun 30, 2022 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Harvard University Archives Email Management & Retention Workshop Wednesday, Jul 27, 2022 10:00 AM - 11:30 AM Harvard University Archives Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.