Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Wichita State University Libraries LibGuides Library Website Circulation Circulation Enter Search Words Search Circulation Circulation Page - A description of services available to WSU Students, Faculty, Staff and Community Users at Ablah Library Circulation Checkout Guide Faculty Borrowing Privileges Holds and Recalls Renewals Fines & Fees How to Avoid Library Fines Automated Library Hours & Information Line: (316) 978-3481 Circulation Desk: (316) 978-3582 librarystaff@wichita.edu Have a question? Contact us by chat, phone, email, or at the Reference Desk. chat loading... The Circulation Department of Wichita State University Libraries checks out books and other items to users, accepts payments of fines and fees, and offers supplies and other items for sale, such as blue books, reusable bags and earbuds. All WSU students, faculty, and staff are eligible for library privileges and may check out as many items for which they are willing to be responsible. Faculty and Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs) are eligible for extended loan periods on some 4 week items. GTAs must apply for this privilege each semester at the Circulation Desk. A valid Shocker card or valid drivers license is required to check out all library materials including, room keys, equipment, and technology. Even If you are not currently affiliated with Wichita State University (including WSU alumni) you may still be eligible for limited library privileges. Please visit Community User Policies page for more information. Next: Checkout Guide >> Last Updated: Nov 9, 2021 8:10 AM URL: https://libraries.wichita.edu/Circulation Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Wichita State University Libraries, 1845 Fairmount, Wichita, KS 67260-0068 | Phone: (316) 978-3481 | Comments/Suggestions |