CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee #LoveInAction *Please note: link to contribute will not be running until winter of 2018 For the academic year 2014/2015 the Student Senate of the Union Theological Seminary adopted a theme, #LoveInAction. Inspired by Cornel West’s words, “Never forget that justice is what love looks like in public,” #LoveInAction embodies perfectly the activist spirit held by the students, alumni/ae, and faculty here at Union, both today and historically. This site was created in order to capture and celebrate the tremendous amount of work that Union students, alumni/ae, and faculty have done and have been doing to demonstrate #LoveInAction. All Union Theological Seminary students, alumni/ae, and faculty are invited and encouraged to contribute* their original digital content, such as images, video, audio, and/or writings that they feel help to document #LoveInAction. We hope that the collective contents of this site will serve not only to honor and commemorate these acts of Love but also to educate and inform the public, now and tomorrow. To view contributions made so far please visit our site here. For any questions about this project please email burke@library.columbia.edu. Sidebar The Burke Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact Union Theological Seminary 3041 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 851-5606 E-mail: burke@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Burke Library Links About Staff Directions Access & Circulation Related Links Health Advisory Regarding COVID-19 Burke Library Blog Burke Library Friends Union Theological Seminary CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.