Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Faculty Faculty Page main body content The Libraries is your resource for teaching and research. Your subject librarian is your first point of contact to navigate the available collections and services. They can develop Research Guides to support students in your course(s), provide library instruction or help with questions around your own research, demonstrating your scholarly impact or publishing your work. Faculty Services Toggle Using the Libraries Content Accessibility and Assistive Technology Committed to providing accessibility, the Libraries provides multiple services and resources to support the needs of SU students and faculty with disabilities. Through our Alternate Format Service, qualifying individuals can receive accessible versions of any materials we own, license or can procure through Request, Pickup and Delivery. Computer workstations offer multiple assistive technologies, including JAWS, Read & Write Gold and other tools. The Joel and Barbara Zelnick Assistive Technology Room 123 on the first floor of Bird Library offers furniture, tools including Kurzweill readers and a DaVinci Pro camera and software to meet additional needs. For additional accessibility services and resources, see the Accessibility page on our website or contact libref@syr.edu. Borrowing Borrow books, compact discs, videos, DVDs, and more. You can also borrow technology items like laptops and accessories. 1-year loan period for books 3-day loan period for videos/DVDs and games 21-day loan period for compact discs Remote access to databases, including streaming video and streaming audio Access to computer workstations and loaner technology Connecting from Off-Campus If you need to access our resources, visit Connecting from Off Campus. SU affiliates who reside more than 30 miles from campus may request to have items from SU Libraries’ collections shipped via UPS to their residence (Request UPS delivery of item). To request an item be delivered to you: Find the item in our catalog. Once the item is identified, select “Request this item.” Complete the form including your preferred delivery method, then Submit Request. You will receive a confirmation email that your request is being processed. Once the item is available, you will receive another email with directions about picking the item from your preferred pickup location or having it delivered via UPS to your residence if more than 30 miles from campus. Copyright View our Research Guide for information on Copyright, or email cipa@syr.edu. Course Reserves You can request course reserves to provide students with access to physical and e-books as well as electronic scans of book chapters from our collections. You can add reserves to Blackboard. All requests should be submitted through the Reserves system. If a request requires that we purchase an item, we will purchase the e-book version if available. Requests for reserves for any given semester may be submitted several weeks prior to the start of the semester. Requests are generally processed in the order received, and typically are completed within 1-2 days, unless the item needs to be recalled or purchased. For additional instructions or directions on how to add academic content to Blackboard, visit the Course Reserves page. Digital Scholarship Services The Libraries provides information on digital scholarship methods, authors’ rights, Syracuse University’s institutional repository (SURFACE), or assistance with publication agreements. Contact dosteam@syr.edu. Instruction Services Libraries' staff are available to provide instruction either in-person or virtually, on library resources and services, online research databases, the research process and subject-specific collections and research skills. Instruction is delivered by a diverse team of librarians who teach in a multitude of spaces, employ a variety of pedagogical approaches, and reach a wide range of student populations. Depending on your course goals, instruction can take place in several modalities. See our Instructional Services page for complete information. Use the Instruction Request Form to request instruction. Subject Librarians Subject librarians represent the interests of schools and colleges in developing dynamic library collections and services to advance the success of the University community. They also provide personalized consultation to individuals and groups to advance these objectives. Toggle Request, Pickup and Delivery Services Content Link to Request, Pickup and Delivery to: Borrow research items not available in the SU Libraries from other libraries via Interlibrary Loan. Request and hold physical items from SU Libraries to be picked up at your preferred SU Library location. Article to Go provides electronic delivery of articles and book chapters from both Syracuse University Libraries and other libraries collections. Delivery services, including Library to Go to graduate student department offices, and ship items to remote students who live more than 30 miles from campus.When you borrow items, you can request they be held for pickup at your preferred location or delivered to your departmental office. Faculty and graduate students may request that Libraries materials be delivered to your academic department mailbox on campus. Delivery Sign Up: Email delivery@syr.edu with the subject “Library to Go” to register. Please include your name, status and department. Submit a Request: Search the Classic Catalog to locate the desired item. If the item has a status of Available, click the Request Delivery. Log in using your SU NetID and password. All information is automatically imported. Add notes or additional information if needed. Click Submit Request. Faculty and graduate students who had items delivered to your academic department mailbox on campus can request that those items be picked-up using Pick up request form. Articles-to-Go provides electronic delivery of articles and book chapters scanned from the Libraries’ print periodical, microfilm/fiche and book collections. Most articles will be delivered within two business days. Requests can be placed logging in to Request, Pickup and Delivery. Toggle Spaces Content Faculty Commons The Faculty Commons, a 5,000 square foot space in Bird Library Room 550, is accessible to all SU faculty by swiping your RFID enabled Syracuse University ID card. It is available for gathering, meeting, and working independently or with colleagues across campus. There are individual workspaces, small gathering spaces, some soft seating, and meeting rooms. Faculty can reserve one of three private meeting/conference rooms through a self-service room reservation system. Meeting Rooms, Classrooms and Study Rooms We have several meeting and classrooms that can accommodate anywhere between 20 and 75 people. Some rooms are equipped with additional technology, such as a presenter public computer, audio system and/or viewing screen. Rooms can be reserved for guest speakers or special events. For information, including room policy and reservation request form, visit the Reserve a Room page. Private long-term study rooms are also available to faculty and doctoral students. These individual study rooms provide a quiet, private space for research and writing. Standard setup includes one desk, one chair and an outlet. You can reserve the room for 16 weeks at a time, with the option to renew. Complete the form to request a long-term study room. Toggle Research Content Citation Management We provide Citation Guides for the more frequently used citation styles, including APA, MLA, Chicago or CSE. We recommend the following citation management tools: Zotero, Mendeley and Endnote. Turnitin is a plagiarism checker available in Blackboard. Experts@Syracuse Experts@Syracuse is a powerful tool that enables new insights into the scholarly expertise and collaborative opportunities that exist within Syracuse University and at other universities. It is designed to help faculty members, departments and potential collaborators identify who is working in what research or scholarly areas at Syracuse University and is a collaborative initiative co-sponsored by the Office of Research and Syracuse University Libraries. Faculty Fellows Research Grant Faculty members from departments and programs across the University have the opportunity to develop undergraduate and graduate courses around the diverse and unique holdings of the Special Collections Research Center. The Libraries offers an annual Faculty Fellows Research Grant to support innovative curriculum development and foster new ideas about how to transform the role of special collections in university instruction. Each fellow receives a $5,000 fellowship payment, a hands-on introduction to the collections and ongoing class support. Applications typically open at the end of the spring semester for the following summer. Numeric Data Resources Get help finding data to analyze for student and faculty research, data management and analysis, use of statistical software (especially SAS, Stata and SPSS), and advice on research methods, study design and statistics. We also provide Qualtrics training. For more information, see the Numeric Data Resources Guide or Research Data Services Guide. Open Access Publishing Support The Libraries can provide information on open access publishing, authors' rights, or assistance with publication agreements. Contact dosteam@syr.edu. Research Data Services The Libraries support research and learning across multiple disciplines involving quantitative, qualitative, business, and spatial data. We can collaborate with and advise you across the entire research lifecycle, including identifying, acquiring, collecting, managing, using, analyzing, and curating research data, including access to the analysis software tools and resources. Assistance writing Data Management Plans is also available to comply with funder requirements. For more information, see Research Data Services. Research Guides The Libraries has developed hundreds of Research Guides to help you discover research tools, explore the research process, and locate helpful resources for a wide variety of academic topics and courses. Looking for a guide for a specific topic or course, contact your subject librarian to discuss. Research Impact Services The Research Impact team supports searching for funding opportunities, measuring research outputs, and employing strategies to bolster faculty’s and the University’s research reputation. This includes: Assistance with creating research profiles, such as Experts@Syracuse, Google Scholar Citations and ORCID. Customizing reports in support of tenure and promotion, including counts of article and book citations, author metrics, journal and publication metrics, non-traditional metrics and more. Supporting a Research Metrics Challenge to help you get ahead on documenting and disseminating your research. For more information, see Advanced Research and Publishing or contact your subject librarian. Sponsored Researcher Sponsored Researchers are formally sponsored by an SU academic department or unit and have been assigned an SU I.D. for a defined period of time. To apply for this access, complete and submit a Sponsored Researcher Access Form. Books can be borrowed for up to 1 year Compact Discs can be borrowed for up to 21 days Videos/DVDs and Games can be borrowed for up to 3 days Access to Remote Database Interlibrary Loan Library Computer Use Toggle Collections Content Our collections support academic excellence in the University’s research, creative and teaching pursuits. These include print and online resources, databases and digital collections, journals, magazine and newspapers, maps and government information, videos and music, and even games, wellness materials and more. Link to Digital Collections. For help accessing materials from the shelves or offsite, contact circhelp@syr.edu. To make suggestions on adding materials to our collections and for searching our collections, contact your subject librarian. SURFACE Institutional Repository SURFACE is Syracuse University's Institutional Repository. For questions or support, email surface@syr.edu. Video Syracuse University Libraries collects video content to support the teaching, research, and creative needs of the campus community in both steaming and physical formats. See the video guide for more information on searching, reserving, and use. Toggle Resources at Other Institutions Content Interlibrary Loan If you need something outside of our collections, whether books, articles, DVDs, CDs or other items, Interlibrary Loan staff will obtain needed materials from other institutions. Request, Pickup and Delivery provides both electronic and physical items from other libraries with no charge to you. OCLC Reciprocal Faculty Borrowing Program For information on how to gain access to other libraries, email circhelp@syr.edu to facilitate establishing the credentials needed. SHARES Gain on-site access to collections at other participating institutions, including many research libraries, museum libraries and archives in the United States and several other countries. Syracuse University patrons visiting other SHARES partner libraries must present a valid Syracuse University ID to get on-site access. Participating partner institutions can be found on the SHARES website. If you have questions about this program, contact Syracuse University Libraries' Resource Sharing Coordinator. In addition to accessing any of the SHARES Partner Institutions, a small number of SHARES libraries offer the opportunity to create a library account and check out materials. Partners in the pilot program are: Binghamton University; Brandeis University; Cornell University; Northwestern University; Syracuse University; Temple University; University of California, Los Angeles; University of Maryland; and Washington University in St. Louis. Complete and submit the SHARES application online. Toggle Special Collections Research Center (SCRC) Content We hold extensive historical and archival resources in a wide variety of formats. Custom-designed instruction sessions can introduce undergraduate and graduate students to methodologies of original research using primary resource materials. Our state-of-the-art Lemke seminar room is available for use by faculty members who wish to present SCRC collection materials that relate to a particular class lecture to their students. Belfer Audio Archive and Preservation Laboratory Instruction sessions can utilize sound recordings, sound playback equipment and other materials from SCRC's collection of the history of recorded sound into tours of the facility or sessions that include a more in-depth look at select topics relating to the individual course. Alexander N. Charters Adult Education Grants-in-Aid The Alexander N. Charters Library for Educators of Adults, or the Charters Collection, consists of historical documents, including manuscript, print, visual and media materials related to adult education. Through the generosity of Dr. Charters, we are also able to offer annual grants to one or more scholars or practitioners wishing to do research in our adult education collections. Applications for the Charters Grant typically opens at the end of the fall semester. Schedule a Session or More Information To schedule a session, please complete our online request form with at least three weeks notice. For information on SCRC’s collections or access, contact scrc@syr.edu. Right aside items Related Links List of Subject Librarians Course Reserves Login Experts at Syracuse Instruction Request FORM Meeting Room Request FORM Video Requests Login Welcome to Syracuse University Libraries VIDEO Contact Us Delivery Special Collections Research Center Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.