CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Rare Book & Manuscript Library Talismanic scroll of the Qurʾān, 1250 AH / 1834 AD South Asia? 564x9 cm. Smith Ms Or 434. … Read More » Demonstration in front of Hamilton Hall against Marine recruiting, April, 21, 1967. … Read More » Blue-vested canons of S. Giorgio in Alga kneeling before Sts. Peter and Paul … Read More » Original textile pattern, from a book maquette by Maksim Osipov. Okti︠a︡brʹ i profpechatʹ … Read More » Cheerleaders at Columbia football game, undated. Photo from Alumni News. … Read More » Haitian Demonstration in Brooklyn, in reaction to the overthrow of Jean-Claude Duvalier. … Read More » Arjuna and verses from the Bhagavad Gita … Read More » Censored manuscript of Ḥidushe masekhet Kidushin. … Read More » "Sketch of Major Houghton's Track to Bambouk, with his intended route to Tombuctoo," … Read More » Nicholas II Coronation Menu, Moscow May 19, 1896. Soiuz Pazhei Papers … Read More » « » 2022-2023 ACADEMIC YEAR AT RBML: WHAT TO EXPECT Digital Resources: Many resources are available online. You can access them by following the links listed below. You can also learn more about how RBML is documenting COVID-19 at Columbia. In addition, we will continue to post news stories about collections and initiatives. Digital Collections Online Exhibitions Digital Library Collections (DLC) CUL on the Internet Archive Digital Scriptorium Cuneiform Digital Library Reading Room Access: The RBML reading room is open Monday to Friday, 10am to 4pm by advance appointment only to external visitors and current Columbia students, faculty and staff whose individual research requires consulting RBML materials. Reading room seats are limited and appointment slots are frequently filled a month in advance. Bookings are are first-come, first served and we cannot guarantee the availability of preferred dates/times. For more information on booking an appointment, visit our Appointment FAQ page See the Plan Your Visit Page for additional instructions on planning your visit. We invite all users to access our Digital Collections, request reproductions, or contact us for alternatives to in-person visits. Order Reproductions: Limited reproductions of materials may be requested. See our Orders & Services page for details. Research & Teaching Support: RBML staff are available to assist faculty with online teaching and to support students with research projects and assignments. Contact us for assistance. Exhibitions: Our exhibition galleries are open to Columbia affiliates and external visitors with confirmed reading room appointments. Online Exhibitions are always available to all. RBML Search Tools CLIO The Columbia University Libraries online catalogue is a primary tool for locating RBML materials. Archival Collections Portal This portal provides access to records of archival collections at Columbia University Libraries, including finding aids, collection descriptions and available digital content, such as online exhibits and images. Oral History Portal Use this portal to explore the collections of the Columbia Center for Oral History (CCOH) Archives at RBML. Quick Links Columbia University Archives Oral History Archives Current Exhibits Social Climates: Power and the Environment in the Archives: through September 30, 2022 in Kempner Gallery. This exhibit draws on a wide array of RBML collections and materials to explore the interconnections between culture, history, politics, and the natural world. From ancient papyrus documents to the records of an 18th century cotton manufacturer, from New Deal photography to contemporary illustrations by renowned artist Molly Crabapple, from early modern treatises on witchcraft to sociological surveys documenting the rise of suburbia, Social Climates offers a critical reexamination of the RBML's archival holdings in order to reveal the connections and disjunctures that have shaped human social relationships to the natural world. The Year of Water Revisited: through July 23, 2022 in the Chang Octagon. This exhibit features artists books relating to the earth's most precious resource: water. Items range from New York City Rainfall 1987 by Sandy Gellis, a portfolio of prints which document a year’s rainfall, to this year’s My Mighty Journey, which traces 12,000 years of a waterfall’s existence, with illustrations created with natural materials found by the river and wood engraving by Gaylord Schanilec. Sidebar Rare Book & Manuscript Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor East Butler Library 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-5590 E-mail: rbml@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Create or Access Your Special Collections Research Account Rare Book & Manuscript Library About RBML Find Materials Plan Your Visit Orders & Services Exhibitions & Programs Collection Areas Digital Collections What We Collect Staff News Sign up to receive updates on RBML Events CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.