Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box » Libraries Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Want to search for books, journals, and articles instead? Exit Search Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving My Account Make a Gift Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving MY ACCOUNT Visiting Valley Library From on Campus The Valley Library is located in the most historic section of campus on the corner of SW Jefferson Way and SW Waldo Place. The address is 210 SW Waldo Place. For vehicle and bike parking, see the info on the right. The library's main entrance is on the north side of the building facing the library quad. You can find the Valley Library ("VLib") below on the interactive campus map. Studying The Valley Library is consistently voted by students as the Best Place to Study on Campus. Study spaces can be found on all six floors, and group study rooms and research rooms are available for reservation. The sixth floor is designated as a quiet area and the first floor is designated as the silent area. The Learning Commons includes large tables with comfy chairs, whiteboards and collaborative workstations equipped with monitors. Patrons can use one of 100+ computers (both Macs and Windows OS) to search research databases and journals, access email and the web, and use productivity software. The Student Multimedia Services desk provides multimedia support, equipment loans, and printing of posters and theses. Scanners, printers and copiers are available throughout the building. An Undergrad Research and Writing Studio is located on the second floor and offers assistance to students who are doing research and writing papers. For a current schedule of their drop-in hours and other info, go to their website. The Graduate Student Commons area is located on the sixth floor and features a variety of spaces and services to support graduate students needs. These include computer workstations, a room for a small group to study together, a technology-enhanced classroom and more. For more info, contact grad.commons@oregonstate.edu or come by the graduate assistant office in room 6559. Borrowing In addition to books and course reserves, the circulation desk near the main entrance loans laptops, Kindles, lockers, iPads, headphones, monitor adaptors, calculators, phone chargers, whiteboard markers, board games, and much more. We provide a self-checkout machine for speedy service. Classes and Workshops Our librarians are faculty members, and they teach. For info on upcoming workshops, see the news section of the OSU Libraries homepage. Coffee Shop Food and beverages are available in the spacious Java II coffee shop on the first floor. Take a break or refuel without leaving the library. Parking Parking for bicycles is available on the east and west sides of the building, and most of the bike racks on the west side are covered (because rain happens sometimes). The nearest vehicle parking is available on SW Jefferson Way a block east of the library in an OSU parking lot or in metered two-hour spaces on the street in front of the McNary Residence Hall. Additional free on-street parking is available a few blocks from campus; some streets have a two-hour limit while streets slightly further away do not have that time limit. For OSU parking lots, temporary parking permits are available from Transportation Services. Tours Individuals wanting to tour the Valley Library are invited to take a self-guided tour. Copies of the tour brochure are available at the Information Desk on the main floor and Administration Office on the 4th floor. Guidelines for scheduling school groups Touring campus? Use BeaverTracks, our interactive mobile guide and walking tour of OSU's historical locations. Questions Go to Ask a Librarian on the Libraries homepage, or come by the Info Desk or Circulation counter, and both of these are on the second floor near the main entrance. Contact Info 121 The Valley Library Corvallis OR 97331–4501 541-737-3331 Contact Us Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Flickr Twitter Instagram In The Valley Library Oregon State University Press Special Collections and Archives Research Center Undergrad Research & Writing Studio Graduate Student Commons Tutoring Services Student Multimedia Studio Northwest Art Collection Child Care Digital Projects Oregon Explorer Oregon Digital ScholarsArchive@OSU Digital Publishing Initiatives Atlas of the Pacific Northwest Branches Marilyn Potts Guin Library Cascades Campus Library McDowell Library of Vet Medicine Federal Depository Library Program Make a Gift