CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Deputy Borrower Instructions All non-student Officers of the University may designate a Deputy Borrower within the Columbia University Libraries system. The library circulation record of the designated deputy will be linked to that of the Officer enabling library material to be charged to the Officer by the deputy. Items charged in such a manner will be the responsibility of the requesting officer. Please read the "Conditions of Use" below, complete all requested information in the form referenced below, then click the "Submit Request" button to send the request electronically. Please note that processing of requests may take up to seven business days. Complete the Deputy Borrower Application Form Conditions of Use 1. The officer must request the deputy using the online web form. 2. The designated Deputy must also possess a currently valid Columbia University Identification Card with his/her own borrowing privileges. He or she must be a current student or non-casual employee of the University. 3. The designated Deputy must have no outstanding Library obligations (fines/fees, non-returned recall items). Any outstanding Library obligation must be satisfied before the request will be processed. 4. The Officer accepts full responsibility for all material checked out by the deputy acting on behalf of the officer. 5. Deputy borrowing privileges will not be issued or renewed if the Officer has any outstanding Library obligations (fines/fees, non-returned recall items). If you have questions about the deputy borrower privilege, please call the Library Information Office staff at (212) 854-7309, or e-mail us at: lio@columbia.edu Sidebar Library Information Office Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 201 Butler Library 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 E-mail: lio@columbia.edu Access & Borrowing Links Library Information Office Accessing the Libraries Borrowing & Renewing Materials Using Other Libraries Related Library Services Links Library Information Office Request Items Faculty Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Visitors Borrowing, Request, Renew Course Reserves Study Spaces Acccessibility CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.