Off-Campus Access | Library A–Z | Hours & Locations Search: Search BruKnow Library Website WorldCat Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Orwig Music Library – Policies on Access and Use Other Orwig Links: » Back to the main page » Library Hours » Collections » Facilities & Staff » Services » Policies on Access & Use » Electronic Resources » Other Music Collections » Internet Music Resources » Finding Scores & Recordings » Music Department at Brown All members of the Brown University community and individuals with the University Library reader's or borrower's card are welcome to use the Music Library for music research and as a place to study. As one of the libraries comprising the Brown University Library, the Music Library conforms to the policies and procedures of the University Library system. Visitors must follow the Brown University Library Visitor Guidelines. No food is allowed in the Music Library. Beverages must be in covered, spill-proof containers. Library staff reserve the right to ask users to refrain from beverage consumption that may pose a risk to the Library collections. To ensure compliance with United States copyright regulations, the copying, including digitizing, of sound recordings is not permitted in the Music Library; exceptions for the purpose of music criticism must receive the approval of the Performing Arts Librarian. Copyright Policy The Library does not permit the use of Library computers or audiovisual equipment to copy commercially produced audio or video recordings of any format. Orwig Media Circulation Policy Faculty Brown University faculty members may check out media from the Orwig collections for one month. Staff, Graduate Students, and Undergraduate Students Non-faculty members of the Brown University community may borrow media for one week. Alumni and Community Members Alumni and members of the community who are not Brown affiliates may use Orwig media materials on-site with the permission of the Performing Arts Librarian. Score Reading (Piano) Room There is a room with a piano in the basement of Orwig for the purpose of score reading. It is available on a strictly first-come, first-served basis. Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet