↓ Skip to Main Content Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours, Locations, & Events Ask a Question Now Off‑Campus Access My Library Account Enter keywords to search library resources Search BruKnow Library Website Brown University Library COVID-19 Community Archive Project Home Home Page Brown University Library COVID-19 Community Archive Project In recognition of the importance of capturing the broad range of experiences of all members of the Brown community during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Library invites you to contribute to its COVID-19 Community Archive Project. Future generations, including historians, scientists, writers, and many others, will explore the historical impact of the pandemic by studying documentation like this. Including as many perspectives as possible in the historical record is essential for capturing our full and authentic experiences throughout the educational, professional, physical, and emotional challenges posed by this unprecedented time. The stories we tell now will ensure understanding in the months and years ahead. Please share your personal and professional experiences and be part of the Brown community’s collective memory of the COVID-19 pandemic. How do I participate? Be creative! We hope to preserve a multitude of experiences in a variety of formats. For example (but not limited to): Journals, diaries, reflections, essays, poetry, zines (“quaranzines”), and other writing Photographs Audio reflections or interviews Videos Podcasts Blogs and websites Social media posts Twitter and Instagram hashtags Screenshots Memes (as image files, screenshots, or links) Artwork (born-digital or photographs) Research products (methods, protocols, and data collection instruments, data sets, maps, models, and visualizations) Research publications (scholarly articles, pre-prints, and rapid reviews) When you have materials to submit or website/social media suggestions, please complete the donation form AND email archives@brown.edu. For more information: Contact Jennifer Betts, University Archivist and Assistant Director of the John Hay Library (jennifer_betts@brown.edu), or Andrew Majcher,Head, Digital Services and Records Management (andrew_majcher@brown.edu). Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet