Off-Campus Access | Library A–Z | Hours & Locations Search: Search BruKnow Library Website WorldCat Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Library Visitor Guidelines In accordance with University policy, all visitors — regardless of vaccination status — must wear masks indoors, unless in a private, non-shared space (e.g., office, faculty study room). Visitors must be affiliated with Brown University and abide by the policies on the Healthy Brown website and should review the Visitor and Guest Vaccination Requirement. All visitors to the Library must complete the Brown University Library Visitor Request Form and receive approval before entering a Library facility. Visitors with ID cards sponsored by a department or program at Brown do not need to fill out the form. Who Is Considered a Visitor? Individuals who are not current Brown ID holders or current RISD students but who are affiliated with Brown University and would like to enter a University physical location, including all Library facilities, are considered visitors. All visitors must be affiliated with Brown and fall into three categories: Long-term: On campus for a semester or more — proof of COVID vaccination required Short-term: On campus for four (4) full days over the course of a calendar month — proof of COVID vaccination required Limited-duration: On campus for three (3) full days or less per month — proof of COVID vaccination not required Long-term and Short-term Visitors COVID Vaccination Requirement Long-term and short-term visitors to Brown, whether researchers, faculty, students, or others, who are engaged in any sustained and consistent in-person contact with other Brown employees, students, or visitors are required to be vaccinated for COVID-19. Library Card Requirement Those who anticipate using the Rockefeller, Sciences, or Orwig libraries (see below for John Hay Library information and Alumni Card information) on an ongoing basis are considered short-term visitors, and must obtain a Brown University library card. Cards will not be issued until visitors have completed the Brown University Library Visitor Request Form. Please note that the Library will need to approve this form for all visitors with the exception of those with ID cards sponsored by a department or program at Brown. Limited-duration Visitors Limited-duration visitors, while not required to submit proof of vaccination, must be prepared to state their affiliation with Brown University. Those who may be attending a lecture, performance, conference, campus tour, or athletic competition, or prospective students (and family members) and prospective faculty and staff, may enter the Library as limited-duration visitors. The program, department, or host is responsible for ensuring the visitor is in compliance with the campus visitor policy. Brown University Community Members Brown University community members are those individuals with current Brown IDs, including students, faculty, staff, affiliated scholars, and current RISD students. The Brown University Library provides on-site access to its collections for all Brown University community members. Who Is Eligible for a Brown University Library Card? Spouses, domestic partners, and children of at least high school age of current Brown students, faculty, and staff Faculty and staff from the Rhode Island School of Design (RISD) Students, faculty, and staff from HELIN Consortium institutions Current faculty and staff from CRIARL member institutions Current students, faculty, and staff from BorrowDirect member institutions At the request of the director of the American Mathematical Society, the Library will grant borrowing privileges to select AMS employees. Current members of the RI Medical Society Alumni Brown Alumni Cards provide alumni with access and borrowing privileges at the Brown University Library. Alumni who plan to use the Library on an ongoing basis (four or more days in a month) must submit the the Brown University Library Visitor Request Form, and complete the vaccination attestation process. Requesting a Brown University Library Card All long-term and short-term visitors to the Library must follow these steps to obtain a library card. Please note, this process does not apply to Brown alumni, who may use their Alumni Card to access the Library, after following the steps described above. Visitors submitting a request for a library card should complete the the Brown University Library Visitor Request Form to initiate the process. Upon receipt of the form, Library staff will submit a department visitor form to visitors@brown.edu for approval. The visitor will receive an email asking them to complete a vaccination attestation form affirming they are fully vaccinated. When the Library receives confirmation of the visitor’s approval from the University, we will create a “My Library Account” for the visitor and contact them when the card is ready. Please allow three (3) business days for review of library card requests. Visitors must present a valid picture ID to pick up their library card. All cards will be valid for six months from the date of issue. John Hay Library Visitors Appointments Required for the Special Collections Reading Room All visitors to the John Hay Library should review the information on the Hay’s Visiting webpage. Individuals not affiliated with Brown University may request an appointment in advance to conduct research in the Gildor Family Special Collections Reading Room by emailing hay@brown.edu. Library staff will submit a department visitor form for the researcher. The researcher will be contacted via email to complete a vaccination attestation. RISD Faculty RISD faculty who attend a single class meeting at the John Hay Library do not have to complete a vaccination attestation. However, use of special collections in the Gildor Family Special Collections Reading Room does require that a RISD faculty member should complete the the Brown University Library Visitor Request Form to initiate the process. Prospective Students & Parents and Members of the General Public During the Fall 2021 term, prospective students and parents are welcome to view the first floor of the John Hay Library; however, the Hay is closed to the general public, including tourists or other casual visitors. All Visitors Brown University Student Conduct and Community Standards All visitors to the Library must follow the University’s Student Conduct and Community Standards. Library facilities are academic buildings intended to support the educational and research purposes of Brown University and are primarily for the use of those holding Brown ID cards. Every person should be prepared to present a valid picture ID to gain access to the Library. Hours and Access Library hours are subject to change, especially during exams and when classes are not in session. Use of the Library is currently reserved for current Brown ID holders and Brown University community members (see description above). We reserve the right to deny access at any time to those not holding Brown IDs. Please note that Library facilities may not be used for commercial or paid services. Purchasing Personal or Corporate Access Cards The Library will not be issuing or selling personal or corporate building access or borrowing cards for the Spring 2022 semester. Information for Visitors » Who Is a Visitor? » Who Is Eligible for a Library Card? » Alumni » Requesting a Library Card » John Hay Library Visitors » All Visitors Important Links » Search the Catalog with BruKnow » Library Hours » Library Locations » Visiting Brown University Individual Libraries » Rockefeller Library » Sciences Library » Orwig Music Library » John Hay Library / Special Collections Information for Visitors » Who Is a Visitor? » Who Is Eligible for a Library Card? » Alumni » Requesting a Library Card » John Hay Library Visitors » All Visitors Important Links » BruKnow, the Library Catalog » Library Hours » Library Locations » Visiting Brown University Individual Libraries » Rockefeller Library » Sciences Library » Orwig Music Library » John Hay Library / Special Collections Information for Visitors » Who Is a Visitor? » Who Is Eligible for a Library Card? » Alumni » Requesting a Library Card » John Hay Library Visitors » All Visitors Important Links » BruKnow, the Library Catalog » Library Hours » Library Locations » Visiting Brown University Individual Libraries » Rockefeller Library » Sciences Library » Orwig Music Library » John Hay Library / Special Collections Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet