Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Locations & Hours Houghton Library Research Collections Teaching What's On About Today: 10am - 5pm See All Hours Highlights Home to Harvard’s rare books and manuscripts, literary and performing arts archives, and more: a destination for students, scholars, and the public. Teach with primary sources Research rare books Explore free exhibits Attend free events As of Monday February 28, 2022, Houghton is open to researchers and visitors with Harvard ID or proof of COVID-19 vaccination and booster. Sign up for our newsletter Stay in the know Contact Harvard Yard Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions email: houghton_library@harvard.edu Phone number 617-495-2440 Ask a Houghton Librarian Houghton Library Blog Subscribe to our Mailing List View Staff Directory Connect with Houghton Library Less contact information More contact information Research at Houghton Information for Researchers & VIsitors During COVID-19 Updated February 25, 2022 As of Monday, February 28, Houghton Library is open to all visitors and researchers with proof of vaccination and booster. Masks recommended: Although it is not required, face coverings are recommended inside the library. While our exhibits and collections are available without an appointment, if you wish to use our reading room, we encourage you to register in advance via HOLLIS Special Request. See the latest COVID-19 guidance, including requirements for proof of vaccination, on the Harvard Library Visitor Access page. If you have a research question, or you're not sure how to access our collections, please contact us. How To Access Materials at Houghton Library Houghton is home to rare books and manuscripts, literary and performing arts archives, and more. Here's how to access these primary source materials. Tool HOLLIS HOLLIS is Harvard Library's catalog. Search HOLLIS for books, articles, media and more. Tool HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Catalog for exploring collection guides, finding aids and inventories to locate unique materials in Harvard's special collections and archives. Tool HOLLIS Images A catalog and search tool for finding images from Harvard Library collections. Service Reproductions Need a copy? Request reproductions of library materials for research or publication. Tool HOLLIS Special Request Request materials for use onsite in library reading rooms or request copies of library materials. Service Teach with Houghton Library Collaborate with us to design engaging learning experiences for your students and incorporate primary source materials. Fellowships and Prizes Houghton Library supports research on its collections by scholars, poets, artists, and Harvard University undergraduate students through four annual fellowship programs: Visiting Fellowship, Undergraduate Fellowship, WPR Creative Fellowship, and New England Regional Consortium Fellowship. Visiting FellowshipsUndergraduate FellowshipsWoodberry Poetry Room Creative Fellowship Visiting FellowshipsUndergraduate FellowshipsWoodberry Poetry Room Creative FellowshipNew England Regional Consortium FellowshipAmerican Trust for the British Library Fellowship Philip Hofer Prize for Collecting Books or Art Show LessShow More Houghton Publications Harvard Library Bulletin Peer-reviewed scholarly articles that reflect and promote the research potential of Harvard Library’s wide-ranging collections. Learn More Harvard Review A semi-annual literary journal showcasing poetry, essays, and short fiction from both emerging and established writers. Learn More More Houghton Library Publications Browse additional works published by Houghton Library via the Harvard University Press. Harvard University Press Explore Collections Since 1942, Houghton’s founding collections have been greatly augmented by a curatorial team whose responsibilities are now divided by period or theme. Today’s curators balance consolidating Houghton’s areas of traditional strength, and forging new directions to better serve the library’s mission to support teaching and research. Modern Books and Manuscripts: World Culture, 1800 to Today Manuscripts, books, photographs, and popular culture material with a focus on literature and history of Europe and the Americas, and Arabic and Indic manuscripts. Additional subjects include the history of missions; the Russian Revolution; publishing history; music; philosophy and much more. Collection The Emily Dickinson Collection Collection The Emily Dickinson Collection Houghton Library's Emily Dickinson Collection is home to over 1000 poems and letters in the poet’s hand, as well as personal effects from her life. Collection Ludlow-Santo Domingo Library Collection Ludlow-Santo Domingo Library The world’s largest private collection of material on altered states of mind. Collection Andrei Sakharov Archives at Harvard University Collection Andrei Sakharov Archives at Harvard University Centered on the papers of physicist Andrei Sakharov, with extensive material on Sakharov's scientific career, personal life, and human rights activities, as well as the papers of other human rights activists. Collection The Emily Dickinson Collection Collection The Emily Dickinson Collection Houghton Library's Emily Dickinson Collection is home to over 1000 poems and letters in the poet’s hand, as well as personal effects from her life. Collection Ludlow-Santo Domingo Library Collection Ludlow-Santo Domingo Library The world’s largest private collection of material on altered states of mind. Collection Andrei Sakharov Archives at Harvard University Collection Andrei Sakharov Archives at Harvard University Centered on the papers of physicist Andrei Sakharov, with extensive material on Sakharov's scientific career, personal life, and human rights activities, as well as the papers of other human rights activists. Collection Modern American Culture Collections Collection Modern American Culture Collections Houghton Library’s American Culture Collections include the books and papers of some of America's most notable 19th- and 20th-century literary figures. Collection Modern French Culture Collections Collection Modern French Culture Collections Houghton Library's holdings in French culture, strong in literature and philosophy, reflect the many shifts in society and literary sensibility that marked the 19th and 20th century. Collection Modern German Culture Collections Collection Modern German Culture Collections Houghton Library's collection of 19th- and 20th-century German-language materials focuses on literature, music and philosophy. Collection Modern British and Irish Culture Collections Collection Modern British and Irish Culture Collections Houghton Library’s collections of 19th- and 20th-century British and Irish literature contain the papers of many writers and artists, with strong holdings on the Romantics. Collection John James Audubon Collection Collection John James Audubon Collection Houghton Library's John James Audubon Collection includes some of the ornithologist's earliest surviving drawings, as well as letters, manuscripts and specimens. Collection Houghton Library Bookplate Collection Collection Houghton Library Bookplate Collection Houghton Library's bookplate collection includes thousands of plates from collectors and libraries all over the world. Collection Modern History of Science Collections Collection Modern History of Science Collections This Houghton Library collection offers insight into the working lives of modern scientists. Collection Science Fiction Collection Collection Science Fiction Collection Dating from the 1880s to the present, the Science Fiction Collection at Houghton Library includes trade paperbacks, magazines, fanzines, and prozines, as well as many works of science fiction, fantasy, and horror. Collection The Harvard Keats Collection Collection The Harvard Keats Collection Harvard's John Keats Collection is the world's largest collection of original handwritten Keats manuscripts and letters. Collection Keats Family Books Collection Keats Family Books This small collection of books owned by poet John Keats and his family, all with markings or annotations, rewards close study. Collection José María Castañé Collection Collection José María Castañé Collection Documenting the pivotal political and military events of the 20th century. Collection Theodore Roosevelt Collection Collection Theodore Roosevelt Collection A major resource for the study of the life and times of the 26th president of the United States. Collection Charles S. Peirce Papers Collection Charles S. Peirce Papers More than 100,000 pages of working notes and drafts by the influential philosopher and scientist. Show LessShow More Early Modern Books and Manuscripts Books, manuscripts and prints from the period 1600-1800. The collection is very broad in scope but particular areas of focus include the history of the Atlantic world, European and American literature, mathematics and physical sciences, and the history of the book. Collection Donald and Mary Hyde Collection of Dr. Samuel Johnson Collection Donald and Mary Hyde Collection of Dr. Samuel Johnson The premier collection of rare books and manuscripts relating to the life and work of Samuel Johnson. Collection English Broadsides: The Bute, Huth, and Percy Collections Collection English Broadsides: The Bute, Huth, and Percy Collections Ephemeral posters, advertisements and songs from 17th- and 18th-century England. Collection Mazarinades Collection Mazarinades The 17th-century French civil war inspired a war of words as well, documented in this collection of pamphlets. Collection Donald and Mary Hyde Collection of Dr. Samuel Johnson Collection Donald and Mary Hyde Collection of Dr. Samuel Johnson The premier collection of rare books and manuscripts relating to the life and work of Samuel Johnson. Collection English Broadsides: The Bute, Huth, and Percy Collections Collection English Broadsides: The Bute, Huth, and Percy Collections Ephemeral posters, advertisements and songs from 17th- and 18th-century England. Collection Mazarinades Collection Mazarinades The 17th-century French civil war inspired a war of words as well, documented in this collection of pamphlets. Collection Early Modern Science Collection Collection Early Modern Science Collection Landmark works in the history of science from the 16th and 17th centuries. Show LessShow More Early Books and Manuscripts Material dating from approximately 3000 BCE to 1600 CE and ranging from papyri to early and illuminated manuscripts to early printed books. While there is an emphasis on Western languages and cultures, the collection is also strong in Arabic, Indic, Persian, and Syriac manuscripts. Digital Collection Medieval & Renaissance Manuscripts Digital Collection Medieval & Renaissance Manuscripts Houghton Library's collection of medieval and Renaissance manuscripts represents a significant resource for the study of the literature, art, history, music, philosophy, and theology of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance in Western Europe. Collection Papyri at Houghton Library Collection Papyri at Houghton Library Works by Homer, Plato, Thucydides, Demosthenes, Menander, and the Gospels, as well as documentary texts for the study of the political, administrative and social history of the Ptolemaic and Roman Egypt. Collection William King Richardson Collection Collection William King Richardson Collection This Houghton Library collection contains illuminated manuscripts, incunabula, illustrated books, and fine bindings collected by prominent Boston lawyer and bibliophile William King Richardson. Digital Collection Medieval & Renaissance Manuscripts Digital Collection Medieval & Renaissance Manuscripts Houghton Library's collection of medieval and Renaissance manuscripts represents a significant resource for the study of the literature, art, history, music, philosophy, and theology of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance in Western Europe. Collection Papyri at Houghton Library Collection Papyri at Houghton Library Works by Homer, Plato, Thucydides, Demosthenes, Menander, and the Gospels, as well as documentary texts for the study of the political, administrative and social history of the Ptolemaic and Roman Egypt. Collection William King Richardson Collection Collection William King Richardson Collection This Houghton Library collection contains illuminated manuscripts, incunabula, illustrated books, and fine bindings collected by prominent Boston lawyer and bibliophile William King Richardson. Collection Count Paul Riant Collection Collection Count Paul Riant Collection The Riant collection at Houghton Library features texts that range from collections of diplomatic letters, to chivalric novels, hagiographical monographs and include many first-hand accounts of European travelers in the Near East. Collection Early Science Collections Collection Early Science Collections Houghton Library’s extensive holdings in the early history of science represent over 2,000 years of scientific thought. Website Picturing Prayer: Books of Hours in Houghton Library Website Picturing Prayer: Books of Hours in Houghton Library Explore 16 of the books of hours in Houghton Library’s rich collection of such manuscripts and pore through their pages without traveling to the reading room. Show LessShow More Harvard Theatre Collection Rare books, manuscripts, images, ephemera, and audiovisual materials documenting the performing arts, with particular strengths in Anglo-American theater, ballet, opera, music, and historical forms of popular entertainment. Collection Russian Theatrical Designs Collection Russian Theatrical Designs Stunning set and costume designs from the 20th century's most influential ballet company, the Ballets Russes Collection John Lindquist Dance Photographs Collection John Lindquist Dance Photographs Modern dance photographs from the nation’s longest-running international dance festival Collection Paul Robeson's Othello Collection Paul Robeson's Othello Records from the first major U.S. production with a multi-racial cast Collection Russian Theatrical Designs Collection Russian Theatrical Designs Stunning set and costume designs from the 20th century's most influential ballet company, the Ballets Russes Collection John Lindquist Dance Photographs Collection John Lindquist Dance Photographs Modern dance photographs from the nation’s longest-running international dance festival Collection Paul Robeson's Othello Collection Paul Robeson's Othello Records from the first major U.S. production with a multi-racial cast Collection The Cockettes Collection The Cockettes Explore the subversive world of midnight films, queer theater, and psychedelic San Francisco. Collection Tennessee Williams Collection Collection Tennessee Williams Collection Explore drafts of plays, journals, correspondence, and photographs from one of America’s pioneering dramatists. Collection Harvard Theatre Collection Collection Harvard Theatre Collection Founded in 1901, the Harvard Theatre Collection stands as one of the oldest and largest performing arts collections in the world. Collection Shakespeare Promptbooks Collection Shakespeare Promptbooks More than 400 annotated scripts reflect the many ways performers have made Shakespeare’s plays their own. Collection Angus McBean Photographic Archive Collection Angus McBean Photographic Archive Angus McBean's iconic portraits of actors and entertainers are among the most complete visual records of the British stage from the 1930s through the 1960s. Collection Alix Jeffry Photographs Collection Alix Jeffry Photographs A trove of images from the early years of Off Broadway theater Show LessShow More Printing and Graphic Arts Original artifacts from all periods illustrating the book arts and the materiality and historical development of the book, whether manuscript or printed. Primary emphasis is on books in languages that use the roman alphabet, although the collection includes representative examples from other cultural traditions. Digital Collection Harrison D. Horblit Collection of Early Photography Digital Collection Harrison D. Horblit Collection of Early Photography Discover the history and science of early photography through a collection of photographs and other materials. Collection Writing Books Collection Writing Books A significant collection of works devoted to the practice of handwriting. Woodberry Poetry Room The Woodberry Poetry Room is a warm, welcoming poetry library and landmark audio-visual archive featuring over 5,000 spoken voice recordings, located in Lamont Library and overseen by Houghton Library. Collection Literary Recording Collection Collection Literary Recording Collection A breathtaking collection of over 6,000 recordings of poets and writers reading from their works, from the 1930s to the present day. Collection Blue Star Collection Collection Blue Star Collection The Woodberry Poetry Room's collection of rare or limited-edition monographs, chapbooks, serials, typescripts, mimeographs, broadsides, portraits, photographs, and related correspondence. Website The Listening Booth Website The Listening Booth Over 600 recordings from the Woodberry Poetry Room's audio-visual collection of literary recordings from the 1930s to the present. Harry Elkins Widener Collection Collection Harry Elkins Widener Collection Collection Harry Elkins Widener Collection Collected prior to his death on the Titanic in 1912, the Harry Elkins Widener Collection consists of approximately 3,300 volumes housed in the Memorial Rooms of Widener Library. Collection The Gutenberg Bible Collection The Gutenberg Bible The first major work printed in Europe with movable metal type. Copyright Questions The vast majority of Houghton material is either in the public domain or under copyrights not controlled by Houghton Library. Houghton Library does not require that researchers request permission to quote from or publish images of most collection material (a few exceptions are listed below), nor does it charge permission or use fees. Permission, however, may be needed from other copyright holders or executors. When to Contact Us Please notify the library if you plan to publish facsimile editions of Houghton materials, and for articles, editorial projects, biographical and critical works that incorporate a substantial portion of a manuscript and/or collection. The library may wish to receive a copy of such works for its records. Researchers must notify the library when publishing images of or quoting from the collections listed below. The list includes the major collections for which these conditions apply, but it’s not exhaustive. Please email the library with any questions. American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions (ABCFM) American Repertory Theatre Thomas Bouchard Emily Dickinson T.S. Eliot (some collections*) Ralph Waldo Emerson Bernie Gardella Joseph Clark Grew Iranian Oral History Project Sally Jacobs Alix Jeffry Frederick Kiesler John Lindquist Amy Lowell Angus McBean L.E. Sissman Andrei Sakharov Archives Arks Smith Tobi Tobias Gore Vidal Thomas Wolfe* *There can be no reproduction or publication of material in these collections without advance permission from the copyright holder. For material protected by copyright, certain uses (including but not limited to quoting, publishing, performing, and reproducing) may require permission from the copyright holder. When required, it’s the researcher’s responsibility to obtain such permissions. The following resources may be helpful in this regard: Copyright Term and the Public Domain in the United States, published by the Cornell University Copyright Information Center, can help researchers to determine if a work is in the public domain. Harvard University's Office of Scholarly Communications Fair Use Guide explains fair use and gives advice on determining if your use of a copyrighted item falls under the fair use statue. Several online resources can be useful in finding the current copyright holder of a work, and requesting licensing permission: The WATCH File (Writers, Artists, and Their Copyright Holders) maintained by the Harry Ransom Center and the University of Reading is a database of copyright contacts for writers, artists, and prominent figures in other creative fields. Artists Rights Society is a copyright, licensing and monitoring organization for visual artists in the United States. DACS is a visual artists’ rights management organization in the United Kingdom. The ADAGP is a French collective which monitors copyright in the visual arts. ASCAP and BMI are performing rights organizations which license and collect royalties for musical works. Citations Houghton Library asks that researchers cite all material referenced, quoted, or reproduced with the following citation format: [Call number]. Houghton Library, Harvard University. For example, a photograph reproduced from the Henry James papers would be cited as: MS Am 1094 (2245). Houghton Library, Harvard University. Show LessShow More Exhibition Loans To fulfill our primary mission of supporting research, teaching and learning for our campus community, Houghton Library is currently not lending to or reviewing requests from external exhibition venues. From July 1, 2022 we will resume considering new loan requests for external exhibitions opening in or after July 2023. If you would like to submit a request to borrow from Houghton for summer 2023 and beyond, please complete this form, and we’ll get back to you next year. If you have any other questions, contact Houghton Library’s Registrar, Carie McGinnis. Houghton Library Collections Strategy Read a statement from our director, Thomas Hyry, about the library's collections development strategy. Teaching at Houghton Service Teach with Houghton Library Collaborate with us to design engaging learning experiences for your students and incorporate primary source materials. Student Research Fellowships Are your students interested in research on special collections or collectors themselves? They can apply for Houghton Library Undergraduate Fellowships or the Philip Hofer Prize for Collecting Books or Art. Houghton Library Undergraduate Fellowships Philip Hofer Prize for Collecting Books or Art Exhibits and Events What's On Get details about Houghton events & exhibitions delivered to your inbox. Sign Up Featured Exhibits Face to Face Portraits of People of Color Before Photography Through Friday, Aug 5, 2022 In Black and White Photographs of Black Theater by Alix Jeffry Through Friday, Jul 22, 2022 Houghton Library Lobby Gallery Summer 2022 Through Friday, Aug 19, 2022 Online Exhibitions Animals Are Us: Anthropomorphism in Children's Literature; Celebrating the Peter J. Solomon Collection Such a Curious Dream! Alice's Adventures in Wonderland at 150 Books in Books: Reflections on Reading and Writing in the Middle Ages Picturing Prayer: Books of Hours in Houghton Library Boston's Crusade Against Slavery" Let Satire Be My Song:" Byron's English Bards, and Scottish Reviewers Diaghilev's Ballet Russes, 1909-1929: Twenty Years that Changed the World of Art Open House 75: Houghton Library Staff Select HIST 75H: A Masterclass on Houghton Library "Life is in the Transitions:" William James, 1842-1910 A Monument More Durable than Brass: The Donald and Mary Hyde Collection of Dr. Samuel Johnson "I Shall Ever Be Your Dearest Love:" John Keats and Fanny Brawne Harvard's Lincoln Public Poet, Private Man: Henry Wadsworth Longfellow at 200 Private Proust: Letters and Drawings to Reynaldo Hahn The Adventures of Thackeray in his Way Through the World: His Fortunes and Misfortunes, His Friends and Family History of the Harry Elkins Widener Library Show LessShow More Upcoming Events Curator-Led Tour of Face to Face: Portraits of People of Color Before Photography Event Monday, Jun 13, 2022 12:30 PM - 1:15 PM Houghton Library See All Houghton Events Workshops Houghton Library offers workshops on a variety of book history-related topics for the Harvard community and general public. Letterpress Printing J-Term Workshops Lecture Series Each year Houghton Library invites distinguished scholars to deliver four lectures in honor of George Parker Winship, and Philip and Frances Hofer. The lectures are free and open to the public. Join our mailing list for updates on Winship, Hofer and other public programs happening at Houghton. Frances and Philip Hofer embarking on one of their many journeys to Europe, circa 1954. Philip and Frances Hofer Lectures on the Art of the Book The Philip and Frances Hofer Lecture Series was established in 1968 for the purpose of sponsoring “lectures on subjects of special interest to Harvard students and scholars within the range of the Printing and Graphic Arts field.” Philip Hofer — Harvard College class of 1921 and founding curator of Houghton's Department of Printing and Graphic Arts — endowed the lecture fund in his name and that of his wife on the occasion of his retirement from Houghton Library. In addition to the Hofer Lecture Series, Houghton Library in conjunction with the Harvard Art Museum awards an annual Philip Hofer Prize for Collecting Books or Art. George Parker Winship Lectures on Bibliography George Parker Winship in the Widener Memorial Room, circa 1920. Harvard University Archives The Winship Lectures were established in 1968 by a gift from the John Barnard Associates, a society of Harvard book-lovers founded in 1927 by Winship. For further information on Winship and the history of the lecture series, see: George Parker Winship as Librarian, Typophile and Teacher, edited by Roger Stoddard. Cambridge [Mass.]: The Harvard College Library, 1999. "The George Parker Winship Lecture Series at Houghton Library: A Bibliographer’s Creed", by G. Thomas Tanselle. Harvard Library Bulletin.Spring 2014, Volume 25, Number 1. Show LessShow More About Houghton Library Welcome Thomas Hyry, Florence Fearrington Librarian of Houghton Library Houghton Library opened in 1942 to provide a dedicated home for Harvard Library’s rapidly growing collections of rare books and manuscripts. Since then, it has become known as a research center and a setting for hands-on learning, exhibitions, and lectures and other public programs. Houghton is not just a place that keeps books; it is a notable site of human activity that both reflects and contributes to the interconnectivity of Harvard Library as a whole. Who We Are Our Vision, Mission, and Values statements take Harvard Library’s as their point of departure, guiding the work we do today and forming our future aspirations. Vision We aspire to further knowledge and ignite curiosity and creativity in service of a more inclusive and just world. Mission To achieve our vision, we provide broad access to our physical and digital holdings and steward them in accordance with best practices for acquisition, description, and preservation. We contribute to Harvard’s research and instruction commitments while sharing our resources with wide-ranging communities. We pledge our public spaces, classrooms, and reading room as welcoming, potent learning environments, and contribute our labor to promoting diverse cultural perspectives and groundbreaking ideas. Values Welcome the World: We welcome everyone interested in our collections, programs, or expertise. Demonstrate Respect: We respect and value each staff member’s contributions to our mission, and demonstrate the same consideration to our users and the larger social and professional communities of which we are a part. Cultivate Diversity, Inclusion, and Belonging: We actively work to diversify our collections, recruit and retain a diverse staff, and create an inclusive environment where all people feel they can participate fully. Strive to Correct Structural Inequality: Acknowledging that our institution’s history is anchored in whiteness, cisgender maleness, heteronormativity, and economic privilege, we commit to interrogating societal inequities and facilitating critical engagement with our collections as part of the work of dismantling and correcting past and present systems of oppression. Innovate Together: We collaboratively pursue innovative strategies within an evolving information landscape, exercising flexibility, adaptability, and open-mindedness. Foster Growth: We invest in learning and reflection for the entire staff, recognizing that individual growth takes place over time and in the larger context of our profession. What We Do Provide access to special collections Perform reference and research consultations Teach with primary sources Acquire, catalog, process, and preserve rare books, manuscripts, archives, and more Digitize collection materials to preserve and make them more widely accessible Support research at Harvard and beyond through four fellowship programs Organize and host dynamic public programs, including exhibitions, lectures, poetry readings, and symposia Publish scholarly and literary journals: Harvard Library Bulletin and Harvard Review Maintain an active national and international loan program Conduct tours of the building every Friday For updates on Houghton, sign up for our newsletter and visit or subscribe to the Houghton Library Blog. Show LessShow More What We Collect Read a statement from our director, Thomas Hyry, about the library's collections development strategy. Media and Recording Requests Houghton Library is committed to supporting and promoting research, teaching, and learning, while at the same time preserving our rare and unique collections. Houghton Library is not available as a background setting for non-educational, non-collection-related projects or promotions. Filming and recording on-site at Houghton Library may be accommodated when: A Harvard faculty member requests filming as part of their teaching program; The University or Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS) Administration requests filming to promote education and/or teaching with the Harvard collections; or A request from outside Harvard is for an educational project in which Houghton Library collections are integral. All filming, recording or media requests should be made at least two weeks in advance. Submit your request through the Harvard Library Communications Media Request Form. Recent News May 25, 2022 Finding Hurdles, Stepping Up Notable moments from Harvard’s 2021-22 academic year. May 17, 2022 Snatching a Culture Back from State-Sanctioned Violence Binalakshmi Nepram, a Harvard Library Fellow through Harvard’s Scholars at Risk Program, is working to save Manipur, India’s Indigenous culture. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.