Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. McFarlin Home HOURS ASK US MY LIBRARY ACCOUNT Search the library website Go! ABOUT Events Fines & Fees History of McFarlin Library Hours Maps & Directions Message from the Dean Mission Staff Directory Welcome to the Library Video FIND MATERIALS ★ Search Summon ★ A-Z Database List Classic Catalog Course Reserves List Journal List Research Guides Textbook Reserves List GET HELP Ask a Librarian / Contact Us FAQ Quick Tips Videos Schedule a Virtual Appointment INFORMATION FOR Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate Students International Students Remote Learners Undergraduate Students Visitors LIBRARY SPACES Computer Lab & IT Help Desk Faculty Resource Center Group Study Rooms iClassrooms Writing Center SERVICES Book & Material Pickup Form Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Suggest a Purchase SPECIAL COLLECTIONS STUDENT JOBS COVID-19 GUIDE MORE LIBRARIES HCAR (Gilcrease Museum) MLIC (Law Library) McFarlin Library LibGuides Visitors Welcome to McFarlin! Enter Search Words Search Visitors: Welcome to McFarlin! Library Resources for Visitors Is McFarlin Library open to the public? We are a private, academic library. While Special Collections and the government repository are open to the general public, the rest of the McFarlin Library is not. However, individuals are allowed one free visit per year or may choose to pay for a Library Associate Membership. Visitors and other individuals who wish to use the library must sign in at the main desk. Visitors are allowed access to the building Monday - Friday 8 a.m. - 5 p.m., provided the library is open. The McFarlin Library is also open to prospective students! Campus Tours Contact the Library Library Associate Memberships Visitors are allowed one free visit per year for research and evaluation purposes. Individuals interested in further use of the library may apply for a Library Associate Membership. Memberships allow persons not affiliated with TU the opportunity to access McFarlin Library on an ongoing basis. Please note that access and circulation privileges do not include media checkout, interlibrary loan, computer lab resources, or access to electronic databases. These services are restricted to current students, faculty, and staff. Alumni Memberships: Access Only - Free Access + Circulation privileges - $65/year See our alumni page for information about obtaining circulation privileges. Memberships for students of other universities: Access Only - $100/year Access + Circulation privileges - $200/year Please remember to submit a copy of your student ID when applying for privileges. Memberships for individuals: Access Only - $120/year Access + Circulation privileges - $240/year Members with circulation privileges may check out up to 10 books at a time. See McFarlin Library’s Fines page for information regarding our late return policies. To apply for a library membership, please email terri-wickliffe@utulsa.edu. Information and Research Services Please feel free to ask our staff any questions that you might have. Ask a Librarian! General Information Maps & Directions McFarlin Library Hours McFarlin Library FAQ Special Collections and University Archives The Department of Special Collections and University Archives is open to the public. Entry into Special Collections is currently by appointment only. Special Collections open Monday-Friday 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. barring holiday closings.  For more information on accessing Special Collections, please check their website or call 918-631-2496. Government Repository McFarlin is a public government repository.  For access to the freely available materials in Government Documents, please check the information at the Documents website or call 918-631-2871. Last Updated: Apr 19, 2022 11:59 AM URL: https://libraries.utulsa.edu/visitor Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. About Events Fines & Fees History of McFarlin Library Hours Maps & Directions Message from the Dean Mission Staff Directory Welcome to the Library Video Find Materials ★ Search Summon ★ A-Z Database List Classic Catalog Course Reserves List Journal List Research Guides Textbook Reserves List Get Help Ask a Librarian / Contact Us FAQ Quick Tips Videos Schedule a Virtual Appointment Information For: Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate Students International Students Remote Learners Undergraduate Students Visitors Library Spaces Computer Lab & IT Help Desk Faculty Resource Center Group Study Rooms iClassrooms Special Collections Writing Center More Libraries HCAR (Gilcrease Museum) MLIC (Law Library) Services Book & Material Pickup Form Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Suggest a Purchase Site Policies Digital Accessibility Policy The University of Tulsa · McFarlin Library · 2933 East 6th Street · Tulsa, OK 74104-3123 · (918) 631-2871 · Facebook Library Staff Login (Libguides) · Print this page