Clemson University A-Z Index Phonebook MENUMENU Find & Borrow Find Books, Articles & More Databases Journals Course Reserves Research & Course Guides WorldCat Borrow Technology Interlibrary Loan PASCAL Delivers Scan and Deliver Off-Campus Delivery Service Explore - State Park Passes Borrowing Privileges Unique collections Gunnin Architecture Library Digital Collections Education Media Center & Digital Media Learning Lab Special Collections and Archives TigerPrints Help Finding Library Materials Borrowing Help Offsite Shelving Circulation Policies Library Fines and Fees Proxy Card Service Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Research & Teaching Research Support Research & Course Guides Citation Management Subject Librarians Undergraduate Research Award Teaching Support Course Instruction Workshops Tutorials Course Reserves Open Educational Resources (OER) Digital Scholarship & Publishing Data Services Digital Projects Support Publishing & Copyright Clemson University Press Help Getting Started with Research Proxy Card Service Purchase Request Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Study & Create Study Spaces Library Locations Learning Commons Creative Spaces Adobe Digital Studio Brown Digital Lab Cooper Makerspace Digital Media Learning Lab Geospatial Center Scholars’ Lab Amenities Starbucks - Cooper Library POD - Cooper Library Reflection Room Help Find Printers & Scanners Academic Success Center CCIT Support Center Michelin Career Center Writing Lab Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions About Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Locations & Parking Floor Maps Our Organization Welcome from the Dean News Staff Directory Policies Accessibility Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Library Residents Program Strategic Plan Organizational Chart Libraries Reorganization Overview Cooper 2.0: A Vision for the Future Employment Opportunities Clemson Libraries Advisory Committee Library Depot Giving Giving Home Honor with Books Fund Friends of the Libraries Help Contact Us Records Management Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Make a Suggestion R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU My Account Giving Help Interlibrary Loan Finding Other Resources If you are looking for something that we do not have, you can use InterlibaryLoan to request that item from another institution. Use Worldcat to begin your search. How Long Does It Take? Electronic material, such as journal articles, takes 2 to 3 days to arrive. Books and other material that must be mailed take 1 to 2 weeks. Due Dates and Renewals The library that lends us the item sets the due date. If you need to renew the item, please let us know before the due date on the band. Renewals are at the discretion of the lending library and are not guaranteed. If the lending library is unable to renew, we will request another copy from another library. Information for Other Libraries For questions about borrowing an item from Clemson, please see our Policies page or email cuill@nullclemson.edu. Policy: Interlibrary Loan Policy The Interlibrary Loan Service (ILL) is part of the Clemson University Cooper Library Resource Sharing office and provides access to material from libraries worldwide to Clemson University faculty, staff, and students. This service also enables access to the holdings of the Clemson University Libraries to libraries nationally and internationally according to the standards set via the Interlibrary Loan Code for the United States and the IFLA International Resource Sharing and Document Delivery: Principles and Guidelines for Procedure. Borrowing Policies Who Current Clemson students, staff, faculty, and emeritus faculty can borrow through Interlibrary Loan. Cost There is no charge for Clemson patrons to use this service. Limitations Interlibrary Loan will attempt to get all materials requested; however, items are lent at the discretion of the lending library. Many libraries will not lend textbooks, ebooks, audiovisual material, theses and dissertations, material from archives and special collections, and microfilm. Copyright The Clemson University Resource Sharing Office complies with the copyright Law of the United States (Title 17, United States Code). Circulation Policies Loan periods, restrictions, and fees are set by the lending library. If you would like to renew your book, please contact us BEFORE the due date on the band. Lending libraries will not entertain renewal requests after this date. Textbook Borrowing Interlibrary Loan does not borrow course-required textbooks. Many libraries do not purchase textbooks with access codes and thus do not have them to lend. Also, loan periods set by libraries are not long enough to cover the entire semester (please see LATE and LOST MATERIALS above regarding overdue fines). Late & Lost Materials There will be $1.00 a day fine for overdue ILL items for students. Anyone (faculty, staff, or students) who does not return an overdue item within seven days will have all library privileges, including ILL borrowing privileges, blocked. If you lose or damage a book, you will be charged for the lost/damaged book plus the processing fees charged by the lending library. NOTE: If you consistently return ILL items late, damage materials, or do not return items at all, your borrowing privileges may be suspended or severely limited. In order to maintain good relationships with our lending libraries, we must return their items on time. If you do not return an item on time or when recalled, you are jeopardizing our ability to borrow from the library that lent the item and are penalizing all Clemson students and faculty. Lending Policies for Other Libraries Material Available for Loan Books – Loan period is for 8 weeks with option to renew. Reserve material and Special Collections materials are not loaned. Ebooks are not loaned. Periodicals – Neither bound nor unbound periodicals are loaned. Copies are provided as allowed under US Copyright Law. Theses and Dissertations – Loan period is for 8 weeks with option to renew. Hard copy theses and dissertations from general collection are loaned. Copies of dissertations available directly from Proquest Dissertations and Theses will not be loaned. Microform and Microfilm – Loan period is for 8 weeks with option to renew. DVDs – 4 weeks only to ASERL institutions. No renewal period. Loan Period Loans are for 8 weeks. Renewal Renewals are for 2 weeks Recalled Items Recalled items must be returned immediately. Rush Requests Rush requests accepted; additional fees may apply. Submitting Requests Requests may be submitted via OCLC. Email requests to cuill@nullclemson.edu are accepted with the following information: institutional contact information, maximum allowable cost, complete delivery address, bibliographic citation, indication of compliance with U.S. Copyright or CONTU guidelines. Payment Payment via OCLC IFM is preferred. IFLA vouchers are accepted. Non-IFM and IFLA transactions are accepted and payment online via credit card is strongly preferred. Replacement Fee Replacement fees are charged for items that are lost or returned damaged. The fee is assessed based on the cost of the individual item. Each item lost will also incur a $25.00 processing fee. Replacement Items Clemson accepts replacement items for lost or damaged materials (as long as the item is comparable in year of publication, edition, and condition) plus a $8.00 processing fee. Electronic Delivery Articles will be sent via Odyssey, Article Exchange or email. If you use stand-alone Odyssey, please be sure that your Odyssey address is included in your request. Cost Loans Copies South Carolina Libraries No charge No charge Reciprocal Libraries No charge No charge ASERL Libraries No charge No charge LVIS, SOLINE, LYRA Libraries No charge No charge United States Libraries 15 15 International Libraries 20 15 Non-IFM Requests Requiring Invoice 20 20 Corporations, For-profit institutions 15 15 Rush Fee (24 Hour Turnaround) 5 5 Clemson University Libraries 116 Sigma Drive, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3027 Directory Employment Contact Us