Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Departments Departments Page featured image content Page main body content Dean's Office Toggle Dean of Libraries and University Librarian Content David Seaman is Dean of Libraries and University Librarian. He leads library staff to deliver the services and collections necessary to drive 21st century research, teaching and learning, and to provide welcoming spaces for study, collaboration and innovation. From May 2019 to January 2020, he was also Interim Dean of the School of Information Studies (iSchool). Dean Seaman came to Syracuse after library leadership positions at Dartmouth College, The Digital Library Federation and the University of Virginia. He has lectured and published extensively in the fields of humanities computing and digital libraries and taught for many years at the University of Virginia’s Rare Book School. Contact Information: dseaman@syr.edu 315.443.5533 Toggle Dean's Office Administrative Staff Content Manages the administration and office services. Contact Information: Kelley Parker, Dean’s Office Manager & Executive Assistant to the Dean kapark01@syr.edu 315.443.5533 Elizabeth Cronkwright, Administrative Specialist emcronkw@syr.edu 315.443.2573 Julie Belle, Administrative Assistant jabelle@syr.edu 315.443.2730 Toggle Advancement Content Works closely with the Dean to help advance the Libraries’ mission through the philanthropy of our generous alumni, friends, Library Associates, and our dedicated Libraries Advisory Board. The generosity of our Syracuse University community enhances learning and discovery by helping provide critical access to information, resident Libraries experts, and dedicated Libraries spaces. Contact Information: Ronald Thiele, Assistant Dean for Advancement rlthiele@syr.edu 315.443.2537 or 315.560.9419 Bianca Caiella Breed, Assistant Director for Development bcaiella@syr.edu 315.440.1531 Toggle Strategic Marketing and Communications Content Leads the direction on generating increased awareness, usage, affinity and philanthropic consideration for the Libraries' resources and services. We help the Libraries connect with our key audiences—faculty, students, parents, alumni, administrators and staff—and encourage communication and interaction with the Libraries. Hanging Flyers or Posters: We embrace a culture that shares information across the campus community. There are two community bulletin boards in Bird Library on the first floor next to each vending machine area. There is also a Libraries' maintained bulletin board outside the Librarians office in Carnegie Library. These can be used by students, faculty and staff. Flyers and posters are only permitted on the designated community bulletin boards. They should include the name of the sponsoring organization and a contact department or person. Media Inquiries: Media inquiries regarding Syracuse University Libraries should be directed to the University's media relations team at sunews@syr.edu or via phone at 315.443.3784. Permission to Film or Take Photos: Please complete the Request to Photograph or Film Form. Contact Information: libcom@syr.edu Toggle Library Information Technology Services Content Provides support, development and training for a variety of systems, technology and applications used across the Libraries. This includes desktop and systems support, Integrated Library System Management (ILSM) and Application Development. Contact Information: lisd@syr.edu 315.443.4300 Toggle Blackstone LaunchPad Content The Blackstone LaunchPad is the University’s innovation hub, connecting the entire campus resource-rich ecosystem with a global network that provides support for aspiring entrepreneurs, inventors, and creators. The program serves faculty, staff, students, and alumni across disciplines who are interested in innovation, invention, entrepreneurship, venture creation, careers, entrepreneurial skills, diversity, equity, inclusion, and taking ideas from concept to commercialization. The program supports a key pillar of Syracuse University’s Academic Strategic Plan to create an innovation ecosystem across the institution that prepares participants to be trailblazers in an entrepreneurial world. Watch the Blackstone LaunchPad video Contact Information: launchpad@syr.edu. Blackstone LaunchPad Website Special Collections Research Center Toggle Belfer Audio Archive & Media Preservation Content The Diane and Arthur Belfer Audio Laboratory and Archive is the first studio ever designed solely for audio preservation, containing a live end–dead end studio with two control rooms. Founded as an audio archive in 1963 with a collection of 150,000 recordings held off-campus under the leadership of Walter L. Welch, the Special Collections Research Center's collection of sound recordings and related items has grown to over 500,000 items. The collection includes formats from the earliest experimental recordings on tinfoil to modern digital media. The Belfer Audio Laboratory and Archive maintains equipment capable of playing back all of these formats, and performs preservation, digitization and delicate restoration work on deteriorating recordings. Recording Studio and Instruction The Belfer Laboratory has a Live End/Dead End recording studio and control rooms designed by Chips Davis, nationally recognized acoustic expert and recording studio designer. One control room is furnished entirely with digital equipment by Syracuse University's Setnor School of Music. It is used as a teaching laboratory for students in the Music Industry program, where they learn the principles and processes of contemporary studio recording. The active instruction program utilizes sound recordings, sound playback equipment and other material from its collections. Contact Information: scrc@syr.edu Toggle Sound Beat Content Sound Beat is a 90-second daily radio program based on recordings held within the Belfer Audio Archive. Each episode provides a short backstory on a specific piece of recorded sound. The show is on air in 360 markets, carried by commercial and community-supported stations throughout North America, the Philippines and New Zealand. It is also available for listening or download via the website at Sound Beat. Contact Information: Contact soundbeat@syr.edu. Toggle Special Collections Content Focused on collecting and preserving rare books, manuscripts and other primary source materials, it provides a vibrant research and learning environment for Syracuse University students, faculty, and the wider scholarly community. It provides access to world-renowned rare and archival collections and expert guidance in their use to facilitate personal discovery and the creation of new knowledge. Contact Information: scrc@syr.edu. Toggle University Archives Content Dedicated to preserving records that document the history, organization, policies, activities and people of the University, and making those records available to researchers. Records Include: Papers of Chancellors and Board of Trustees Records of schools, colleges and departments Papers of more than 250 faculty, staff and alumni Publications More than 750,000 visual images More than 5,000 films and videotapes Nearly 24,500 theses and dissertations Newspaper clippings Memorabilia Materials in the Archives are available to all members of the Syracuse University community and to the public, except for certain collections that are restricted in whole or in part. This includes both University administrative data and faculty and staff collections. Contact Information: scrc@syr.edu Academic Success Toggle Access and Resource Sharing Content Provides users with seamless access to needed resources, including: Access and circulation in Bird and Carnegie Libraries: General collection, government information, maps, music, media and games Laptops and loaner technology Study rooms Course Reserves Delivery services: Article to Go document delivery Library to Go departmental delivery Interlibrary Loan and Resource Sharing Preservation Facility, high-density storage Alternate Format Services Contact Information: Circulation: circhelp@syr.edu, 315.443.5727 Interlibrary Loan: ill@syr.edu, 315.443.3725 Course Reserves: reserve@syr.edu, 315.443.6215 Carnegie Library Circulation Desk: carnegie@syr.edu, 315.443.2160 Bird Library, 3rd Floor Service Desk: multimed@syr.edu, 315.443.4176 Delivery Services: delivery@syr.edu, 315.443.2452 Preservation: mhanley@syr.edu, 315.443.4560 Toggle Inclusion and Accessibility Content We are committed to providing all SU students, faculty and staff equitable access to the library resources and services required for their academic and research needs. We provide a range of services for individuals who may require assistance or specific tools in order to access and use those resources and services. Contact Information: Bird Library 1st Floor Information Desk: 315.443.4083 Bird Library Access to the Assistive Technology Room 123: 315.443.5727 For help in Bird Library: 315.416.7047 Carnegie Library: 315.443.2160 Toggle Information Literacy Content Delivers quality educational opportunities to advance the University's teaching and learning. We support students and faculty in developing skills to succeed in an increasingly complex information society through information discovery, understanding how information is produced and valued and using information to create new knowledge and participate in communities of learning.* Instruction is delivered by a diverse team of librarians who teach in a multitude of spaces, employ a variety of pedagogical approaches and reach a wide range of student populations. We offer a variety of programming to support learning, including in-person and online classes, events, library tours, information fairs, and research workshops. We partner with academic departments in a variety of ways, including integration with first-year courses (such as WRT 105/205 and First Year Seminar), collaboration with Syracuse University Project Advance classes, faculty collaborations with the Special Collections Research Center, and introductory and upper-division discipline-specific instruction by subject liaisons. The Libraries also deliver information literacy instruction through reference consultations at service desks and by appointment, research support for study groups, roving reference, and learning objects such as research guides and online tutorials. *Association of College and Research Libraries, Framework for Information Literacy for Higher Education, 2015 Related Links: Instruction Request Form Learn at SUL Workshop Series Faculty Resources for Online Teaching Special Collections Research Center instruction request form Contact Information: kkdeleva@syr.edu Toggle Learning and Academic Engagement Content Supports student achievement and success through a variety of services, including reference, printing and technology support, outreach and liaison partnerships, instruction, event planning, exhibitions and more. We also welcome collaborations with campus entities or other creative programs. Find us in person at our service desks and via email, phone or 24/7 via chat or text services. Reference and Information Services As a Syracuse University student, staff or faculty member, you have 24/7 online access to thousands of peer-reviewed journals, e-books and so much more. Finding the resources you need can be challenging. Our professionally-trained staff are available to help you in person, by phone, email or chat. We save you time by showing you how to find and use the best available sources for your research. Technology and Printing Assistance Located on the first floor of Bird Library, the Technology Desk provides assistance with standard and poster (plotter) printing, scanning, wireless access, copying and use of the campus print management system (PaperCut). For more information, see our Printing and Technology page. Tabling and Space Requests at Bird Library SU students, faculty and staff looking to use the open space of the lower three floors of Bird Library can complete the Tabling & Other Space Request form. See the Learning Commons page for examples of the types of activities and requests we can accommodate. Note: if you are seeking to reserve rooms in Bird, please use the Reserve a Room page. Exhibitions and Displays We curate displays and exhibits in the three mobile cases on the 1st floor of Bird Library. For current and past exhibits, see our Learning Commons Exhibits page. We also actively facilitate and support the display of student, faculty and others' collections on the Learning Commons floors of Bird Library. New Book Displays The new books area is located just inside the University Place entrance to Bird Library on the first floor. New books are curated from fiction, non-fiction, art, SU authors and SU Press. We also feature special displays for celebratory months and notable times of the year (like Black History Month or Asian Pacific Heritage Month) or to reflect collaborations with other campus groups. If you are interested in collaborating or proposing ideas for special displays, contact brsherid@syr.edu. Contact Information: Call 315.443.4083 Text 315.464.0744 Email libref@syr.edu Chat Operational Excellence Toggle Budget Office Content Manages finances for Syracuse University Libraries. Provides oversight and reporting of all transactions to ensure fiscal responsibility. Functions include: Budget management and reporting Gift and endowment revenue and spend oversight Grant monitoring Payroll expense review Contact Information: Jennifer R Collins jrcollin@syr.edu 315.443.5781 Related Links University Business, Finance and Administrative Services Toggle Business Service Office/Mailroom Content Manages supply and purchase requests, processes employee expense and reimbursements, receives and distributes mail and shipments, handles invoice payment requests, and administers FedEx and UPS shipment requests. Contact Information: Betty Johnson-Adair baadair@syr.edu 315.443.9786 Toggle Facilities and Security Content Responsible for ensuring that library facilities are properly maintained, comfortable and safe. This is accomplished through building supervision and coordination of services provided by campus departments (Physical Plant, Department of Public Safety, etc.). Lost and Found Bird Library Room 125 Lost Property Form Contact Information: Tom House tdhouse@syr.edu 315.443.1896 Toggle Human Resources Content Responsible for addressing and assisting library employees with all personnel related questions and issues such as: Benefits Disability, salary continuation and FMLA University's labor agreement for bargaining unit employees Recruitment Compensation/Payroll Staff recognition programs Librarian promotion process Performance evaluations Related Links University Human Resources University Benefits Toggle Program Management Content Centralizes information for management decision-making statistics, assessment, project management and scheduling. We assist Libraries management in identifying, processing, analyzing, interpreting and maintaining information to provide effective spaces and services for patrons. Using a project-oriented approach, continuously improve through assessment, process improvement and streamlined workflows Develop a centralized repository of information to help manage the Libraries Use data and monitor metrics to make recommendations regarding resources and facilities Provide benchmarks and comparative data from other universities to identify possible improvements Contact Information: pmc@syr.edu Toggle University Records Management Content Helps University community identify, inventory and manage records in accordance with the University Retention Schedule; develops file plans and file-naming conventions for shared drives; and manages inactive records in the University Records Center. Determines how long records need to be kept to satisfy all requirements to which the records are subject. Ensures compliance with recordkeeping laws and regulations. Manages inactive records in the University Records Center. Organizes active records for retrieval when needed. Protects recorded information that supports vital business operations. Contact Information: rm@syr.edu 315.443.8388 Hawkins Building Room 140 1600 Jamesville Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 Related Links University Records Management Research Excellence Toggle Acquisitions and Cataloging Content Acquires, catalogs and provides access to library materials in all formats, including rare books, maps, sound recordings and videos. We work closely with Department of Research and Scholarship librarians and Special Collections Research Center to acquire resources. We contribute to national cataloging standards via CONSER (Cooperative Online Serials) and NACO (Name Authority Cooperative Program). We are responsible for the creation and accuracy of all records and access points in the Libraries' catalog. Contact Information: libacq@syr.edu libcat@syr.edu 315.443.2542 Related Links Our Cataloging Procedures Report an Electronic Resource Problem Suggest a Title Toggle Digital Stewardship Content Includes both Digital Library and Digital Stewardship. Hosts a set of digital exhibitions and digital collections that feature unique content created by or for Syracuse University students, faculty and staff, as well as users beyond our campus. Digital Exhibitions, which are curated by the Libraries' knowledgeable staff, tell unique stories through digital objects and can be accessed via: Biblio Gallery Online – featuring digitized or digital artwork, a re-imagining of the Libraries’ popular 4th Floor Biblio Gallery. Special Collections Research Center Online Exhibitions – featuring content created by SCRC archivists and curators. Digital Collections are primarily derived from original materials held in the Special Collections Research Center (SCRC). Other collections represent materials obtained through various digital initiatives via the Libraries' Department of Research and Scholarship, campus collaborations, and materials accessed through SURFACE, the University's institutional repository. Contact Information: dfjoyce@syr.edu Toggle Research and Scholarship Content Home to subject, research data and collection development and analysis librarians, with offices in Bird, Carnegie or King + King Architecture Library. We support the research, teaching, scholarship and creative work of the Syracuse University community through collection development, information literacy instruction and research services. The librarians in the department represent the interests of schools and colleges in developing dynamic library collections and services to advance the success of the University community. The librarians also provide personalized consultation to individuals and groups to advance these objectives. Teams within the department collaborate to emphasize the following areas of focus: Digital & Open Scholarship Team Fosters and supports innovative uses of digital technology through: Assisting patrons in meaningful, ethical and insightful engagement with data in all facets of their work Providing expert guidance in contemporary scholarly communications issues including Authors’ Rights, Open Access and new modes of publishing Providing opportunities for connection and support among digital scholarship communities across campus and beyond Collections Team Develops initiatives to build collections that support academic excellence in research, teaching and creative work by evaluating and promoting collections in all formats through: Increasing awareness of collections among University community through activities such as curated events and exhibits Understanding user needs by soliciting and reviewing collections-related feedback and suggestions Evaluating collections, incorporating information about user needs and participating in assessment activities Contributing to the Libraries’ collections infrastructure by documenting workflows, providing collections mentorship and participating in and planning professional development and training opportunities Subject Instruction Team Supports faculty and students through instructional services, offering curriculum-based instruction, workshops and programming and: Encouraging a collaborative relationship between librarians and teaching faculty to teach needed information on research methods, identifying and assessing relevant source material, citation management and other information literacy skills Providing specialized instruction that satisfies the unique needs of learners with varying skills, abilities and learning styles Collaborating with other DRS and Libraries’ teams on research consultation, educational and information literacy initiatives Continuously assessing programming to meet the changing expectations of the faculty, students, staff and University community Research Impact Team Supports Syracuse University’s goal of advancing research initiatives and achieving greater research visibility for the University by: Providing guidance to individuals during the creation, publication, dissemination and tenure and promotion phases of their research and creative scholarly work Helping researchers, departments, schools, colleges and institutes understand and communicate the impact of their scholarship Advocating for the responsible assessment of research and creative works and use of research metrics Collaborating with departments, colleges, institutes and offices across the University to analyze research trends and support intra and inter-institutional benchmarking Contact Information: Contact your Subject Librarian Related Links Suggest a Title Research Services Toggle SU Press Content Established in 1943, we publish peer-reviewed scholarly monographs, edited volumes, and literature in the areas of Middle East studies, Irish studies, Jewish studies, television and popular culture, Arab American studies, disability studies, gender studies, indigenous studies, geography, peace and conflict resolution, sports, and New York State and regional studies. In keeping with the University’s longstanding commitment to serving the interests of veterans and their families, we administer a Veterans Writing Award every two years. We are a member of the Association of University Presses, and we're committed to serving New York State as well as the region, nation, and globe by publishing books that advance knowledge in fields in the humanities and social studies and make available to English-reading audiences literary works translated from languages such as Arabic, Persian, Yiddish, and Hebrew. SU Press Website Contact Information: supress@syr.edu 315.443.5534 621 Skytop Road, Suite 110 Syracuse, NY 13244-5290 Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.