Columbia University Libraries Columbia University » Home Libraries » Home Digital Library Collections » Home Columbia Libraries Locations Columbia Archival Collections Portal CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog Log In Help About Ask a Librarian Suggestions & Feedback Library Hours Maps and Locations Terms of Use The papers of John Jay Search in All Fields Title Name for Q Background Material Biographical Essay Jay Print Project Jay and France Jay and New York Jay and Slavery Jay and the Constitution Legacy Conference The Jay Treaty About the Project Bibliography History & Description Participating Institutions Rights & Permissions Source Collections Permanent URL BROWSE THE COLLECTION ABOUT THE COLLECTION ABOUT THE PAPERS OF JOHN JAY The Papers of John Jay is an image database and indexing tool comprising some 13,000 documents (more than 30,000 page images) scanned chiefly from photocopies of original documents. Most of the source material was assembled by Columbia University's John Jay publication project staff during the 1960s and 1970s under the direction of the late Professor Richard B. Morris. These photocopies were originally intended to be used as source texts for documents to be included in a planned four-volume letterpress series entitled The Selected Unpublished Papers of John Jay, of which only two volumes were published. In 2005, the new, seven-volume letterpress and online edition of The Selected Papers of John Jay was launched under the direction of Dr. Elizabeth M. Nuxoll and is being published by the University of Virginia Press as part of its Rotunda American Founding Era Collection. The new Selected Papers project not only uses the online Jay material available on this website as source texts, but also provides links from document transcriptions in the letterpress and digital editions to the scanned page images posted here. More information on the Selected Papers project… 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 • Telephone (212) 854-7309 Order a Reproduction | Copyright and Permissions | Suggestions & Feedback