<iframe height="0" src="//www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5LBRZK" style="display:none;visibility:hidden" width="0"></iframe> Skip To Content University Libraries Study Spaces About Study Rooms & Spaces About Study Rooms & Spaces Quiet Study Areas Group Study Rms. Ind. & Research Study Rms. Collaborative Study Areas Grad. Study Areas Quiet Study Areas Quiet Study Areas Location Description Cushing Library Cushing’s Reading Room, located on the 2nd floor, is a designated quiet space for serious study and quiet contemplation. Please note food and drink are not permitted in this library. Evans Library The 3rd and 5th floors of Evans are designated quiet study spaces. In addition, individual study rooms on the 3rd and 4th floor are quiet and the individual rooms on the 3rd floor may be reserved. Evans Library Annex The 5th Floor of the Evans Library Annex is designated as a quiet area. Medical Sciences Library The 2nd floor of MSL is a designated quiet study space. Business Library and Collaboration Commons BLCC has quiet areas on the 2nd and 3rd floor. Collaborative Study Areas Collaborative Study Areas Location Description Evans Library The 1st, 2nd, 4th, and 6th floors of the Evans Library have areas available for collaborative study. Evans Library Annex The 1st, 2nd and 4th floors of Evans Annex have areas available for collaborative study. Medical Sciences Library The 1st floor and Lobby of the Medical Sciences Library have areas available for collaborative study. Business Library & Collaboration Commons The 1st floor and 2nd floor of the Business Library & Collaboration Commons have areas available for collaborative study. Collaborative Technology Areas Location Description Evans Library Available in some of the group study rooms in Evans. These rooms are available for reservation. Evans Library Annex Available in some of the group study rooms in the Annex and on the 4th floor. The group study rooms are available for reservation. Medical Sciences Library Available on the 1st floor of the Medical Sciences Library and the GPS Zone. Business Library and Collaboration Commons Available in some group study rooms that are available for reservation and also in the Barclay Reference Center of the Business Library & Collaboration Commons. Group Study Rooms Study Rooms for Reservation Location Description Evans Library May be reserved for groups of 2-10 people. Some rooms are equipped with collaborative technology. Evans Library Annex May be reserved for groups of 2-6 people. Some rooms are equipped with collaborative technology. Medical Sciences Library May be reserved in MSL for groups 2-8 people or the GPS Zone. Business Library and Collaboration Commons May be reserved for groups of 2-9 people. Individual & Research Study Rooms Temporary Study Rooms Location Description Evans Library Rooms for individual quiet study are available on the 3rd and 4th floors of Evans Library. The rooms on the 3rd floor are unlocked and available for reservation. The rooms on the 4th floor are unlocked and available on a first-come basis. Medical Sciences Library Individual study rooms are available for reservation on the second floor and in the GPS Zone. Research Study Rooms Location Description Evans Library Evans Library has research rooms available for faculty and advanced graduate students for extended checkout periods. Contact AskUs Services for more information. Medical Sciences Library Limited research study space is available on the second floor for CVM residents studying for boards. Email AskMSL. Graduate Study Areas Area Location Description Evans Library The sixth floor of Evans Library has both quiet and collaborative graduate student study spaces. Medical Sciences Library The GPS Zone provides a quiet study environment for graduate and professional students. GPS Zone Reservations. Reporting Noise Call the Service Desk Text Us 979-256-1091 Chat with Us Library Use & Conduct See Also Multimedia Spaces Lockers Support the Libraries AskUs anything at anytime. Chat with Us Call Us Text Us @ 979-256-1091 Email Us About the Libraries Quick Phone & Mailing List Directory | Find my Librarian Employment Diversity Matters Site Map | Site Search Follow Us Facebook Twitter You Tube Instagram howdy.tamu.edu Off-Campus Access Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Texas CREWS Comments Services Status