Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box » Libraries Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Want to search for books, journals, and articles instead? Exit Search Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving My Account Make a Gift Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving MY ACCOUNT Print, Scan, Copy Printers BeaverPrint is available at all computers that require an ONID password and login name. All printing done using BeaverPrint will be charged to your ONID account. The University processes bills once a month and will send bill information to your ONID email address. Log in to ONID to look at your ONID bill. You may also pay for your printing immediately by using your OSU ID Card or a library convenience card at a non-ONID computer. See below for more information. You must use your OSU ID card or library convenience card at computers that do not require an ONID username and password. You can add cash to your card at the OSU Card Cash/Add Value terminal on the 2nd (main) floor of the Valley Library. There are instructions on the machine. You may also add value by credit card online via the MyCard website or by visiting the ID Center in the MU. General Public Printing You can add funds to your library convenience or computer-use only card using the OSU Cash Card/Add Value terminal on the 2nd (main) floor of the Valley Library, or by going to the ID Center in the MU. You can purchase a library convenience card from the OSU Cash Card/Add Value terminal or apply for a fee card at Circulation. Please note: cash/coin payment is not available for printing in the Valley Library. Scanners Scanners are located on the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 5th floors. These scanners allow you to scan documents (color, gray, black and white) in searchable PDF, quick PDF, JPEG, PNG, or Rich Text/DOC formats (DPI ranges from 100 to 600). You may send them to an onid@oregonstate email address or save to a USB drive, Cloud storage (Google Drive, Microsoft OneDrive or Box), or by QR code to a tablet or smart phone. It is recommended that you scan no more than 17 pages at a time to prevent the scanners from freezing. Your mailbox will also need to have sufficient storage space for your documents or they will be lost when sent. There is no charge for the service. Copiers Self-service copiers are located in the Learning Commons on the main (2nd) floor of the Valley Library. You may pay for copies by OSU ID card, library convenience card, or by using the cash copier. Paper sizes available are 8x11 and 8x17. If you need assistance with the equipment, the Information Desk or Circulation staff can help. If you need assistance with copying, the Information Desk or Circulation staff can provide copying assistance during regular business hours. Contact Disability Access Services for extended assistance. Copying with ID Cards or Convenience Cards Students, faculty and staff may add value to their ID card at the OSU Card Cash/Add Value terminal on the 2nd floor. Your card may then be used for library copying and printing, and for food items at Java II (first floor) and the campus food courts. The copy value on your OSU ID is separate from your Housing & Dining food account. Department copy cards may be obtained at the OSU ID Center. Patrons without an OSU ID card or library convenience card may purchase a convenience card for $1.00 using the OSU Card Cash/Add Value terminal on the 2nd floor or apply for a free card at Circulation. You will need to add value to the card at the OSU Card Cash/Add Value terminal (cash only). If you lose money in the OSU Card Cash/Add Value terminal, call the OSU ID Center at 737‒2493. The OSU ID Center can often adjust the card over the phone. For problems with the OSU Card Cash/Add Value terminal, please contact Circulation. A cash copier is located in the 2nd floor Learning Commons. Coins, $1.00 & $5.00 bills are accepted. Copies are 10¢ each. Color Copies A color photocopier is not available. However, students, faculty and staff can scan materials in color and print to the color printer. First, scan your color images and email them to yourself. Next, print out a color copy using Beaverprint Color. Color copies can also be produced by OSU Printing & Mailing. Map Copies Student Multimedia Services staff can make copies of maps for a fee. There is a large selection of maps on the 3rd floor. Please ask at the Information Desk for help accessing the vertical files. To place an order, bring the maps to SMS' public service desk on the main floor of the library. Some maps may also be checked out at Circulation. Printing Prices BeaverPrint Black and white, one-sided: 7¢ Black and white, two-sided: 9¢ 11x17 size: 25¢ Color laser printing, one-sided: 25¢ Color laser printing, two-sided: 40¢ Non-ONID Printing Black and white only, 7¢ per side of page Self Service Copier Locations 2nd floor : OSU Card Cash/Add Value terminal to add money to cards, double-sided copier, scanners, and a cash copier. OSUL: circulation Copy Prices 8.5x11 = 7¢ per copy (with ID or convenience card), 10¢ with cash 8.5x17 = 7¢ per copy (with ID or convenience card), 10¢ with cash OSUL: circulation Contact Info 121 The Valley Library Corvallis OR 97331–4501 541-737-3331 Contact Us Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Flickr Twitter Instagram In The Valley Library Oregon State University Press Special Collections and Archives Research Center Undergrad Research & Writing Studio Graduate Student Commons Tutoring Services Student Multimedia Studio Northwest Art Collection Child Care Digital Projects Oregon Explorer Oregon Digital ScholarsArchive@OSU Digital Publishing Initiatives Atlas of the Pacific Northwest Branches Marilyn Potts Guin Library Cascades Campus Library McDowell Library of Vet Medicine Federal Depository Library Program Make a Gift