CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals The Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals offers a comprehensive listing of journal articles published worldwide on architecture and design, archaeology, city planning, interior design, landscape architecture, and historic preservation. Coverage is from the 1930s (with selective coverage dating back to the 1740s) to the present. The Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals is updated weekly. © 2022 The Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York Connect to the Avery Index Resources marked with this symbol are restricted to Columbia Affiliates. Avery Index (via Proquest) This connection restricted to current Columbia students, faculty and staff members. Authenticate using Columbia UNI and password. Avery Index: Alumni Edition (via Ebsco) This connection restricted to Columbia alumni. Authenticate using active alumni/Friends UNI and password. Choose "EBSCOHostWeb" then "Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals" to access this resource. Information Contact the Avery Index Suggest journal for inclusion in the Avery Index Frequently Asked Questions Avery Index Timeline Avery Index Current Journal List Avery Index Retrospective Journal List Avery Index Subject Headings Sidebar Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals Contact Rm. 226 Avery Hall Columbia University 1172 Amsterdam Ave., MC0301 New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212-854-8407 E-mail: avery-index@library.columbia.edu Avery Library Links About Staff Related Links Avery Library Friends Avery Store Avery Library Blog BWR Blog Tafel Archive Blog CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.