Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU HDS Home Email My.HDS HOLLIS ATLA Religion Database Search Google main search box code About Contact the Library Directions Hours Find Your Way Book a Group Study Room Library News Mission and History Research Tools Key Databases Essential Tools and Services M.Div. Senior Paper FAQ Citation Tools Research Guides How to Find Archives Help & Services Collections Religion Collections at Harvard Collection Strengths Special Collections Unitarian Universalist Resources Digital Collections Collections Beyond Harvard Ask Us HOME / HELP & SERVICES / BTI Affiliates Harvard Divinity School is a member of the Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium (BTI). BTI libraries extend reading and borrowing privileges to faculty and students at other BTI institutions so that each school can benefit from the rich collections of these libraries combined. Library Access and Borrowing To obtain a Harvard Divinity School Library access card, please come in person to the library on a weekday between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Please be prepared to show us your student ID. This card will enable you to access the physical library whenever we are open, use our computers to access licensed digital content, and borrow books from the Harvard Divinity School Library. If you wish to borrow books from multiple Harvard libraries, you may purchase a Library Borrowing Card from Harvard Library's Access and Borrowing Office at Widener Library. Research Help Research help is available! Connect with a subject expert to work on any research-related question, problem, or skill. Help & Services Faculty BTI Affiliates Alumni Visitors See Weekly Hours HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL LIBRARY 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 617.495.5788 my.hds | Harvard University | Harvard Library | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Trademark Notice | Reporting Copyright Infringements Copyright © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. HDS Library Styles Code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement