Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Course Reserves Course Reserves Page main body content SEARCH COURSE RESERVES The Libraries provide course reserves materials electronically so that all students, on and off campus, can easily access materials. When an e-book version is not available, we will provide access to physical course reserves. Faculty Information Toggle Submitting a Request for Course Reserves Content If faculty requests a course reserve item not currently in our collection, the Libraries will purchase the e-book version if available and compatible with our platform. This allows more students to use course reserve materials at the same time and provides easier access. If faculty would like a print copy on reserve in addition to the e-book, please indicate that in the notes section on the Reserve Item form. Please submit requests several weeks prior to the start of the semester. Requests are generally processed in the order received and are typically completed within 1-2 days, unless the item needs to be recalled or purchased. Log on to the Reserves system using your SU NetID and password Click on Create a New Course under “Instructor Tools” on the left side menu. Fill out the information for the course and click on Create Course. Select the course created under Current Courses. The course page will open and you can begin adding items by clicking Add Reserve Items under “Instructor Course Tools” on the left side menu. Click on the “Book and other Items” icon. Fill out the information about the item. Click Submit Item. Toggle Adding Academic Content to Blackboard Courses Content Content in library databases often shift or change, so when providing article links, it is important to find and use permanent URLs or permalinks. Databases vary in how they present permalinks, but a permalink can usually be found in the abstract or full display of the article (e.g. Document URL). Users must authenticate to access restricted resources, so when providing a permalink, you must preface it with Syracuse University's EZ Proxy URL: https://libezproxy.syr.edu/login?url= followed by the permalink. See our Research Guide for information on linking to SU Libraries' online resources. For information regarding classroom use of copyrighted and licensed resources, see Copyright Research Guide. Student Information Toggle Locating Course Reserve Materials Content Search for Course Reserves You can search for course reserves by instructor, department or course. Toggle Loan Periods and Fines Content Loan periods are determined by the faculty member placing the items on reserve. Because there is heavy demand for reserve materials, overdue fines and fees differ from those of other library materials. Loan Period 2 hour or 3 hour reserve - Materials may be taken out of a library 24 hour reserve - Materials may be taken out of a library but are due back before closing of the following day, regardless of what time they were checked out. 3 day or 7 day reserve - Materials may be taken out of a library but are due back by closing time on the date due. Overdue Fines Fees are assessed for items that are not returned or are returned late. These fines may be paid by credit card online or at the Check Out desk in Bird Library and the circulation desk in Carnegie Library (Visa and MasterCard only). 2-hour, 3-hour and 24-hour course reserve items - Fines are $2.00 per hour with a maximum fine of $30 per item Three-day and seven-day course reserve - Fines are $5.00 per day with a maximum of $30.00 per item Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.