Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Articles, Journals, and Databases The Brown University Library provides access to thousands of journals and databases containing millions of articles. We provide a few different ways to help you access this content. Find an article by title or author If you know the title or author of the article you’re looking for, enter it into the search box on any Library web page, or on the main search page. BruKnow will search through all of our electronic and print holdings to find out if we have access to relevant articles. If we do, the results will appear in the Journal Articles section of the BruKnow search results page. If BruKnow can’t find what you need in our holdings, don’t despair. We can probably still get specific articles for you from one of our consortial partners, via interlibrary loan. To make such a request, gather as much information as you can about the article you’re seeking, and place an article request through ILLiad. Find a journal by title If you’re looking more generally for journals by title, use our Journals and Other Periodicals search tool. This will search Brown’s current online and print journal holdings for the titles we have available, along with the dates of the issues we have access to. Sometimes, a single journal will be available from multiple sources or in multiple formats (for example, online and print), so look carefully at all the options in your search results. Find and search databases The Library subscribes to hundreds of databases of information of all kinds. Search the listing of our available databases by title or subject to find resources for your area of interest. Ask a librarian If you’re not sure how to find what you need, or are interested in learning more about the Library’s resources in your discipline, get in touch with the subject librarian who specializes in your area of interest. If you have general questions about Library resources for articles, journals, or databases, ask a librarian any time. Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University