Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback The Anne S.K. Brown Military Collection: Staff The staff of the Military Collection consists of the curator, Peter Harrington. A native of Manchester, England, he joined the collection as assistant curator in 1983 following further graduate studies at Brown University in archaeology. At that time, the curator was Richard B. Harrington (no relation), who had been with the collection since 1951. Upon the death of the latter, Peter succeeded to the position. Since then his main focus of research has been the artistic representation of war, and the archaeology of the British Civil Wars of the 1640’s, and he has written and lectured extensively on both subjects. He can be reached by email (Peter_Harrington@brown.edu) or by calling (401) 863 2414; fax: (401) 863 2093. Collection Links Back to the main page Introduction The Collection Staff Exhibitions Mazansky Sword Collection Other military collections Mrs. John Nicholas Brown Former Staff Members Richard B. Harrington (right) was Curator of the Military Collection from 1951 until his death in 1989. Born in Worchester in 1926, he studied at Harvard University and Simmons College before moving to Providence to work as Mrs. Brown’s curator. His extensive knowledge of world history and royalty coupled with his foreign language skills enabled Mrs. Brown to create an extensive card catalogue which is still in use. Away from work, Richard’s primary interest was architectural history, and he built up an extensive collection of books, pamphlets, and photographs on this subject. Robert W. Kenny, Jr., (1932–2004) Brown class of 1955, worked in the Military Collection from 1994–2003 as a Military Researcher assisting the curator; he was also a trustee of the Committee of Management. Bob was instrumental in developing the program honoring the veterans of Brown who served in World War II, and also began a project to acquire archival material from this war. In this photograph from 1994, Bob (left) is looking over a collection of drawings and water-colors of a World War II German POW camp donated by the late artist, William M. Capece of Lincoln, R.I., (center) and Peter Harrington, Curator of the Anne S. K. Brown Military Collection. Capece, a flyer with the U.S. Army Air Corps, was shot down over Munich during a bombing raid. Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University