↓ Skip to Main Content Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours, Locations, & Events Ask a Question Now Off‑Campus Access My Library Account Enter keywords to search library resources Search BruKnow Library Website Exhibits: The Unicorn Found The Unicorn Found: Science, Literature, and the Arts 11 March - 31 July, 2015 John Hay Library #unicornspvd Home The Unicorn of the Sea The Unicorn of the Land The Mate The Medieval The Modern Bibliography Events Unicorns in Residence : Providence Credits Home Page ‘Well, now that we have seen each other,’ said the unicorn, ‘if you’ll believe in me, I’ll believe in you.’ –Through the Looking Glass, Lewis Carroll, 1871 From ancient Mesopotamia to Renaissance Europe, from the waters of the Arctic to the woodlands of Alice’s adventures on the other side of the looking glass, unicorns have pranced across the globe, leaving their footprints on human history and firmly ingraining themselves in our culture. Winsome and wondrous, the animal has held an enduring role in the lore and legends of peoples across the world. It has been hunted, studied, ascribed powers, and brought to life through stories, songs, and works of art. This pervasive presence has enabled the unicorn to become a symbol, standing for virtues of strength and subtlety, power and grace. In its many different forms, this allegorical animal will continue to inspire and enchant its audience. The Unicorn Found traces the history of how unicorns have been represented, exploring the myth and manifestation of the mysterious being within different historical and cultural contexts. With items drawn from the diverse collections of institutions throughout Providence, The Unicorn Found depicts the transforming imagery of the unicorn, from initial investigations into its existence to modern design motifs.The unicorn has been found in Providence! Have you seen it? The Unicorn Found exhibit was produced by the Brown University Library, in partnership with the RISD Fleet Library, the RISD Museum, the Providence Athenaeum, the Providence Public Library and the John Carter Brown Library. Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet