Skip to main content Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Menu Main navigation Explore Resources Knowledge Base Insights Programs Archives & Special Collections Secondary navigation About Us Ask a Question COVID-19 Update Search for: Health Sciences Library COVID-19 Update Mar 14, 2022 Library Updates The Knowledge Center is open 24/7 to current CUIMC students, faculty, and staff. Outside of study space hours, please swipe an active CUIMC ID to enter the Knowledge Center. Study spaces on the Lower Level 1 in the Hammer Building, including the Quiet Reading Room, Group Study Rooms, and individual study carrels, are open and available for reservation. Effective March 14, 2022, indoor masking will be optional in study spaces in the Hammer Building. Find more details at the Columbia's COVID-19 Resource Guide. Library staff are committed to ensuring uninterrupted access to the services and resources needed to support teaching, learning, and research. Remote assistance is available from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Please submit an inquiry using the Ask a Question Form. Our staff will reach out to you as quickly as possible. Self-checkout is available in the Knowledge Center for Health Sciences Library circulating collections and course reserves materials. The Archives & Special Collections reading room reopened to non-Columbia researchers on March 14. For information on requirements for admission, please see our "Prepare for Your Visit" page. The following services are also in place: Access to Services and Resources Access to articles, journals, and books: We've put together information on how to access both print and electronic resources during this period. Ask a Question: Use our contact form to ask a question or to consult with an Informationist. Staff will be on duty 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday to Friday, except on University-designated holidays, and will respond quickly to your inquiry. Return of Print Materials Return books to the information desk inside the Knowledge Center during Information Desk hours. Please note that materials from Morningside libraries can also be returned to book bins on Morningside campus. Campus Operations Please continue to refer to the University’s COVID-19 Guidance for the Columbia Community and the CUIMC Coronavirus Resource Center for information about classes, campus events, health updates, travel restrictions, and preventative measures. Other Announcements Library Resources Resource Spotlight - Oxford Medicine Online May 25, 2022 Oxford Medicine Online is a digital platform that hosts Oxford University Press' prestigious medical titles. It brings together authoritative texts by world-renowned authors, covering all biomedical specialties. Library Resources Resource Spotlight - Thieme MedOne Radiology May 11, 2022 Thieme MedOne Radiology provides extensive case libraries and diagnostic guidance for those in training, and essential references and procedural guidelines for the qualified specialist in clinical practice. Library Resources Resource Spotlight – Harrison’s Principles of Internal Medicine: New edition now available Apr 5, 2022 The 21st edition of the highly trusted Harrison's Principles of Internal Medicine includes new chapters highlighting recent advances in clinical diagnosis and therapeutic interventions; existing chapters have been rewritten to provide up-to-date information and latest guidelines. All announcements Back to top Advancing meaningful engagement with information Contact Us Service Desk: (212) 305-3605 Interlibrary Loan: (212) 305-3605 Archives & Special Collections: (212) 305-7931 Send us an email Connect on Twitter (@CUIMClibrary) Visit Us Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Hammer Health Sciences Building, Lobby Level Columbia University Irving Medical Center 701 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 About Us Location and Hours Library Spaces Library Staff Library Accounts Library Policies Computing Resources Recommend A Library Purchase Columbia University Irving Medical Center © 2021 Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Manage Web Cookie Preference