Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Collections Alix Jeffry Photographs A trove of images from the early years of Off Broadway theater "Funnyhouse of a Negro" by Adrienne Kennedy, 1964. Photograph by Alix Jeffry. © Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library Alix Jeffry (1929-1993) photographed over 250 Off Broadway shows between 1952 and 1967. In many cases, her images are the only visual record of groundbreaking new plays. Uta Hagen and Arthur Hill in Edward Albee's “Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" 1962. View Details. © Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library The Alix Jeffry archive consists of over 60,000 negatives, contact sheets, prints, and slides documenting the work of famous playwrights like Edward Albee, Amiri Baraka (previously known as LeRoi Jones), Samuel Beckett, John Guare, Adrienne Kennedy, Sam Shepard, and Lanford Wilson. History Born Evelyn Fish in 1929, Alix Jeffry arrived in New York City in 1952 and began photographing the Off Broadway theater scene. Budgets at the time typically did not allow for more than a few publicity shots, much less for filming. Jeffry, however, uniquely documented productions from start to finish, creating a definitive visual record of a pivotal period in American theater history. Jeffry photographed productions by the Artists’ Theatre, The Living Theatre, Terese Hayden’s Theatre de Lys, New York City Center, as well as plays by emerging dramatists produced by the Playwrights Unit. Jeffry later worked as freelancer for the New York Times, photographing celebrities for feature articles in the Arts and Leisure section from 1968 to 1980. There are approximately 20,000 portraits in the collection. Harry Belafonte, 1972. Photograph by Alix Jeffry. View Details. © Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library Her photographs have also appeared in The New Met in Profile (1974) by Stephen E. Rubin, Mary C. Henderson’s Broadway Ballyhoo (1989), and were the subject of a 2001 exhibition at the Harvard Theatre Collection. Jeffry's archive was gifted to the Harvard Theatre Collection by Frederick R. Koch in 1981. Additional prints, correspondence, and drafts of unpublished writings, along with Jeffry's copyright, were later donated by her partner Mary Alice Morris. Diversity Among the people Jeffry photographed are many performers of color, including Billie Allen, Marian Anderson, Harry Belafonte, Vinie Burrows, Tamara Dobson, Al Freeman Jr., Morgan Freeman, Reri Grist, Lena Horne, James Earl Jones, Betty Lane, Rosetta LeNoire, Henry Lewis, Mabel Mercer, Leontyne Price, Harold Scott, Bobby Short, Shirley Verrett, William Warfield, and Flip Wilson. Jeffry also captured the world premieres of Dutchman (1964) by Amiri Baraka and Funnyhouse of a Negro (1964) by Adrienne Kennedy. Accessing These Materials All material is available for use in Houghton Library’s reading room. Reproductions and Permissions To obtain publishable-quality images, please consult Harvard Library’s Reproductions page. Researchers must also notify the library before reproducing photographs by Alix Jeffry. When contacting us, please reference the Alix Jeffry archive and the image’s call number. Contact Houghton Library email: Email Phone number 617-495-2440 Related Collections Collection Harvard Theatre Collection Collection Harvard Theatre Collection Founded in 1901, the Harvard Theatre Collection stands as one of the oldest and largest performing arts collections in the world. Collection Angus McBean Photographic Archive Collection Angus McBean Photographic Archive Angus McBean's iconic portraits of actors and entertainers are among the most complete visual records of the British stage from the 1930s through the 1960s. Collection John Lindquist Dance Photographs Collection John Lindquist Dance Photographs Modern dance photographs from the nation’s longest-running international dance festival How To Access Materials at Houghton Library Houghton is home to rare books and manuscripts, literary and performing arts archives, and more. Here's how to access these primary source materials. How To Use Harvard Library's Special Collections and Archives Open to all, these unique materials can take you to places you never expected. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.