Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Alumni Alumni Page featured image content Join us for a virtual tour of Bird Library Page main body content Welcome back! Even though you've graduated, you still have access to some of the resources you were able to use while you were a student. This section highlights some of the resources that are still available to you as an alumnus, as well as some publicly available ones that are free for you to use. Using SU Libraries Toggle Borrowing Content Alumni who have completed a degree program at Syracuse University or SUNY-ESF are eligible to obtain a free Guest Borrower card to check out materials from the Libraries. Alumni can borrow books for up to 28 days with a 20 item limit, and these items can be renewed up to 5 times. Compact discs can be borrowed for up to 7 days and videos/DVDs and games can be borrowed for up to 24 hours. Alumni may also use the Libraries' computers. Unfortunately, we are unable to offer interlibrary loan service to alumni. To obtain your Guest Borrower card, please present your Alumni ID card or photo ID at the Check Out desk. For more information on our alumni loan policies, check Borrowing Process and Policies. Toggle Accessing Online Resources Content Due to licensing restrictions, alumni access to subscription databases, e-journals, and articles is only available on campus. Register at the Bird Library Check Out Desk to obtain a computer key to use. Summon, the Libraries main search tool, can help you locate eBooks, journal articles, and other information resources that are published under an open access license. To find open access resources through Summon, click on the "Open Access" filter listed in the "Refine Your Search" section of your search results. Toggle Citation Support Content Whether you're going back to school or just doing personal research, there are a number of citation managers that can help you to keep your references organized and to generate your own bibliographies. Here are just some of the freely available ones that you can use: Zotero - A free and open source citation manager that you can use to collect and organize your references. For more information, check out our Zotero research guide. Mendeley - A free reference manager that works on your computer and/or online. For more information, check out our Mendeley research guide. Toggle Computers, Wireless and Printing Content Public computer access Once your SU NetID is deactivated after graduation, you will need to register as an alumni in order to use our public computers while on campus. Please visit the Alumni Office to secure the necessary credentials. Wireless at SU Alumni can get wireless access at SU by using the AirOrangeGuest (not AirOrangeX) network. For more information on accessing this network, please see the AirOrangeHelp website. Printing Find information about Guest/Visitor Printing. Toggle Exhibitions and Events, Biannual Magazine Content We host a number of in-person exhibitions and events featuring materials from our collections, presentations and guest speakers. We would love to include you on our invitation list. We also regularly host virtual exhibitions and events that you can attend from the comfort of your own home or office. Sign up to be added to our mailing list. Learn what's happening at the Libraries by receiving a complimentary subscription to Connection Magazine. Sign up to be added to our mailing list. Toggle Free Online Resources Content Many public libraries offer access to databases, electronic articles, interlibrary loan services and other materials similar to those at SU. Some may even let you use your library card to log on to their electronic resources offsite. Similar to SU, many college libraries allow members of the community to access their resources on-site. Check out these free online resources: WorldCat – The world’s largest library catalog, it can help you locate books, journals, music, movies and more at libraries globally. Subject Guide: Other Library Catalogs and Websites – View our own subject guide to find other libraries and resources throughout Syracuse, New York State and beyond. HathiTrust Digital Library – Digitized print volumes with full-text downloads for items in public domain or not otherwise under copyright. Below are some of the websites offering free online books to read and download. Directory of Open Access Books – Indexes academic, peer-reviewed, open access books covering a wide variety of subjects. Project Gutenberg – Contains thousands of free eBooks now in the public domain. The Online Books Page – Features over a million free online books, hosted by the University of Pennsylvania Libraries. Google Books – Provides many complete books and limited previews of others. Though remote access to subscription databases is only available to current students or those on campus, there are still plenty of publicly available resources that you can use, including: Directory of Open Access Journals – A “one stop shop” for thousands of scientific and scholarly journals, providing free and open access to peer-reviewed articles across a variety of subject areas and languages. Google Scholar - Access or partial browsing of many scholarly articles. SURFACE - open access to select scholarly, professional, scientific, and creative output produced at Syracuse University. Toggle Special Collections Research Center Content Alumni are welcome to access the Special Collections Research Center’s reference and collections services and select digital collections, programs and exhibitions. Right aside items Related Links Alumni Association ID Card Communications Sign Up FORM Guest Portal Registration Wireless Network for Visitors [PDF] Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.