Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box » Libraries Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Want to search for books, journals, and articles instead? Exit Search Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving My Account Make a Gift Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving MY ACCOUNT OSU Libraries News Welcome to the OSU Libraries News and Events page! Everyone is welcome! Everyone really is welcome at OSU Libraries, and we try to share that message in as many languages we know how. Currently 17 languages are represented with our buttons. Stop by the Valley Library to pick up a button and help us spread the... Board game study breaks! As Spring term heats up, you may want to take some study time outs! Consider borrowing a board game from the Valley LIbrary's extensive board game collection. Guin Library also has board games for borrowing. Games check out for 1 week and... We've got tech that you need and love! Laptops! Calculators! Chargers! Hotspots! Maker Kits! Board Games! Headphones! So much more! We've got things to lend to you, and you love to borrow this stuff. Chances are, however, that there are things you still don't know we have. No matter... Summit items available for renewal Items borrowed, via OSU Libraries & Press, from the regional Summit consortium libraries may be eligible for renewal. Login to your OSULP My Account. For items listed under the Loan tab, look for the Renew button to the right of each item.... In the Reading Room for Spring: Healing In acknowledgment of the trying times we've endured and the strength we've shown, the Reading Room is featuring a collection of materials following the theme of Healing. Healing can refer to the physical process of repair, the emotional process... This IS Kalapuyan Land exhibit at Valley Library This IS Kalapuyan Land is a physical exhibition that opened in 2019 at the Five Oaks Museum. The exhibition was curated by Steph Littlebird Fogel. In 2020 the exhibition transitioned into an online and yard sign exhibition. In November 2021, the... Learning Corner worksheets now in the Learning Commons The Valley Library has partnered with OSU's Academic Success Center to offer a selection of their Learning Corner worksheets in the library's Learning Commons. The rack is facing the quick print stations (and the hallway to the restrooms and URWS... Free menstrual products in Valley Library and Guin Library restrooms Free menstrual products are available in all Valley Library restrooms (inclusive, gendered, and single-user) on the Corvallis campus and in the women's restrooms at the Guin Library and HMSC 900 building on the Hatfield Marine Science Center... Get your public library card! Corvallis-Benton County Public Library (CBCPL) staff will be at the Valley Library on Tuesday, April 5 from 4:00 pm - 6:00 pm. They will offer assistance with public library card applications. Be sure to bring your OSU ID (faculty and staff,... Crafternoons at Valley Library Take a study break! Join our Crafternoons table weeks 1, 3, 5, 7, 9 and finals week, Thursdays 4-5PM. Over the course of the term, we expect to do rock painting, zines, collage, stamp-making, friendship bracelets, and more! Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Contact Info 121 The Valley Library Corvallis OR 97331–4501 541-737-3331 Contact Us Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Flickr Twitter Instagram In The Valley Library Oregon State University Press Special Collections and Archives Research Center Undergrad Research & Writing Studio Graduate Student Commons Tutoring Services Student Multimedia Studio Northwest Art Collection Child Care Digital Projects Oregon Explorer Oregon Digital ScholarsArchive@OSU Digital Publishing Initiatives Atlas of the Pacific Northwest Branches Marilyn Potts Guin Library Cascades Campus Library McDowell Library of Vet Medicine Federal Depository Library Program Make a Gift