Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Digital Collections Digital Collections and Initiatives Home Projects and Platforms Technology Digital Projects Proposals News and Reports In support of Princeton University Library's mission and vision, Digital Collections and Initiatives provides online gateways to support teaching, research, and expanded usage of PUL’s collections. While Princeton faculty, researchers, and students are our primary audience, we also seek to democratize access to rare and unique resources that would otherwise be visible only to those able to physically visit the Library. Facilitating the reuse of our digitized content is one of our primary goals. By leveraging the International Image Interoperability Framework (IIIF) family of standards, users are able to access content from PUL’s digital repository via the many portals they already use for discovery, including the online catalog, digital collections and exhibitions, finding aids, and other research projects. Many of our services are built in collaboration with the library open source community. We leverage existing projects and as leaders in this community, frequently participate in collaborative projects with institutions who share similar missions and values. Latest News and Reports New PUL program provides Princeton students, faculty, and staff opportunities to curate digital collections Tourism magazine from Princeton University Library's Latin American Ephemera collection, included in the curated collection, Tourism in Cuba: From Colonial Past to Culinary Present. Princeton... Preservation Packaging As we are implementing preservation in Figgy, we have faced a couple of challenging decisions that lay just outside the concern of preservation-oriented specifications like BagIt and OCFL. Two inter-... Preservation Lately we’ve been working on preservation within Figgy and have come up with a strategy we think works for us. However, in doing so, we’ve evaluated a few options and come up with some assumptions... More Digital Collections and Initiatives News and Reports Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top