Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Locations & Hours Widener Library Using the Library What's Happening Collections History Today: 9am - 5pm See All Hours Highlights Harvard Library’s flagship location, Widener Library offers inspiring study spaces, miles of stacks to explore, and friendly librarians ready to help. 450 languages collected 6 million+ items digitized Home to a Gutenberg Bible Host of CS50 & HUM10 classes Open to Harvard ID holders. Full access policy Follow Widener Library You can find us on Instagram and Twitter Contact Harvard Yard Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions email: widren@fas.harvard.edu Phone number 617-495-2413 View Widener Staff Connect with Widener Library Less contact information More contact information Using the Library How To Borrow, Renew and Return Library Materials Connect with the library materials you need to get your work done. How To Use Harvard Library as an Alum Access a growing number of electronic resources available to alumni and find out how to visit libraries. Services & Tools Service Ask a Librarian Get immediate help during our live chat hours, or submit a question. Service Research Consultations Get personalized guidance from one of our library specialists online or in-person—no question is too small. Tool Database Search A catalog to find the specialized search engine that has what you need—identifying and connecting to the best databases for your research topic. Tool HOLLIS HOLLIS is Harvard Library's catalog. Search HOLLIS for books, articles, media and more. See All Library Services & Tools Widener Resources Widener Library Call Number Locations (PDF)Request a Study Carrel What's Happening Virtual Exhibit Inside Widener Library Harvard's famous Widener Library Through Wednesday, Feb 15, 2023 Recent News May 2, 2022 2022 May-Crane Fellowships Learn about the 2022 May-Crane Fellowship recipients and their projects at Harvard Library. March 4, 2022 Op-Ed: Widener Wasn’t Built for Women “I find comfort in knowing the white men for whom it was built would be angry that I sit here and make noise (metaphorically, in the reading room).” Collections Collection Charlie Archive Collection Charlie Archive Documenting the vigorous debate about fundamental political and ethical issues that followed the 2015 terrorist attacks on the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo. Collection Images of Colonialism Collection Images of Colonialism These late-19th- and early-20th-century trade cards and illustrations offer insight into European perspectives on the colonial experience. Collection Czech and Slovak Samizdat Collection: 1968–1990 Collection Czech and Slovak Samizdat Collection: 1968–1990 Documenting the political events in Czechoslovakia from the Prague Spring to the Velvet Revolution. Collection Charlie Archive Collection Charlie Archive Documenting the vigorous debate about fundamental political and ethical issues that followed the 2015 terrorist attacks on the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo. Collection Images of Colonialism Collection Images of Colonialism These late-19th- and early-20th-century trade cards and illustrations offer insight into European perspectives on the colonial experience. Collection Czech and Slovak Samizdat Collection: 1968–1990 Collection Czech and Slovak Samizdat Collection: 1968–1990 Documenting the political events in Czechoslovakia from the Prague Spring to the Velvet Revolution. Collection Judaica Collection Collection Judaica Collection Documents the life and culture of the Jewish people, with particular comprehensive coverage of life and culture in the State of Israel. Collection Judaica Digital Collection Collection Judaica Digital Collection The Judaica Collection's many digital materials document the life and culture of the Jewish people, with particular focus on life and culture in Israel. Collection Latin American, Spanish and Portuguese Collections Collection Latin American, Spanish and Portuguese Collections This Widener Library collection includes a broad array of materials for study and research on Latin American, Spanish, Portuguese and Caribbean topics. Collection Modern Greek Collections Collection Modern Greek Collections Harvard Library's Modern Greek Collection contains materials in the humanities and social sciences mostly published in Greece and Cyprus. Collection Pamphlets from the Harvard College Library Collection Pamphlets from the Harvard College Library Tens of thousands of pamphlets covering diverse and eclectic topics. Collection Slavic Poster Collection Collection Slavic Poster Collection Over 1,500 posters from various Slavic countries dating from the late 20th century through the present day. Collection South and Southeast Asian Collections Collection South and Southeast Asian Collections Widener Library's South and Southeast Asia Collections include materials in many languages and formats. Collection Sub-Saharan African Collection at Widener Collection Sub-Saharan African Collection at Widener Materials deal with all aspects of African experience and culture in African nations south of the Sahara. Show LessShow More History The Harry Elkins Widener Memorial Library is Harvard University's flagship library. Built with a gift from Eleanor Elkins Widener, the library is a memorial to her son, Harry, Class of 1907. Harry was an enthusiastic young bibliophile who perished aboard the Titanic. It had been Harry's plan to donate his personal collection to the University once it provided a suitable alternative to the outdated and inadequate library then located in Gore Hall. Mrs. Widener fulfilled her son's dream by building a facility of monumental proportions, with over 50 miles of shelves and the capacity to hold over three million volumes. The library opened in 1915, but Harvard's collections continued to grow at an astounding rate. By the late 1930s, Widener's shelves were at capacity. Space was at a premium for staff and patrons as well as books, which led the administration to begin a lengthy decentralization process. Over time Harvard built several new libraries to house its increasingly specialized collections. By redistributing books to new libraries, space opened up in Widener, but it was gradually given over to the growing staff hired to attend to the collections. In addition to the physical challenges associated with housing and maintaining an ever growing collection, the 20th century also saw technological advancements that affected Widener--from electrical wiring to a computerized card catalog to sophisticated research workstations. Widener Library ushered in the new millennium in the midst of its greatest change since opening in 1915. From 1999 to 2004, the building underwent extensive renovations to ensure the long-term preservation and security of collections, and to increase user space. For more in-depth information about Widener's history, see: The online exhibition History of the Harry Elkins Widener Memorial Collection Widener: Biography of a Library by Matthew Battles, Harvard University Press, 2004 Show LessShow More Virtual Tour Gaze up at the skylights of the Loker Reading Room, wander through the stacks, examine the bookshelves holding Harry Widener’s personal collection—explore Widener Library up close and virtually. Take the tour Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.