CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Honors & Prizes Select a Columbia History Resource Alma Mater Alumni Registers Booklets, Guides & Campus Viewbooks Coeducation at Columbia Honors & Prizes Media Online Exhibits President Profiles Publications Timelines & Histories University Documents Web Archives Columbia History Resources The following is only a selection of websites and documents available online which can help you learn about the history of the University. You can find the original paper copies and additional resources by searching in the library's online catalog CLIO. Honorary Degree Recipients, 1920. Columbia University Honorary Degree List Created by the staff of the University Archives, this MS Excel document lists all of the individuals who have received honorary degrees from Columbia since the 18th century. There is also a tab which lists those who have been awarded the University Medal for Excellence. The list is updated annually, after Commencement. To learn more about the honors and prizes, please visit the Office of the Secretary's website. Columbia University Roll of Honor Created in conjunction with the installation of a commemorative plaque in Butler Library, this website is intended to be a memorial acknowledging the sacrifice and contributions of each Columbia war casualty as an individual. The Honor Roll of names on this site will be amended as more information surfaces about Columbians engaged in past, present, and future military conflicts of the nation. Bancroft Prizes Web Site This is an informational web site for The Bancroft Prizes. Under the terms of the will of the late Frederic Bancroft, these prizes are awarded annually by Columbia University in the City of New York to the authors of distinguished works in either or both of the following categories: American History (including biography) and Diplomacy. This site includes a link to a list of all past winners of this distinguished award. Edward M. Kennedy Prize This is the official site of the Kennedy Prize for drama inspired by American History. The prize is given annually through Columbia University 'to a new play or musical of merit that enlists theater’s power to explore the past of the United States, to participate meaningfully in the great issues of our day through the public conversation, grounded in historical understanding, that is essential to the functioning of a democracy." Previous winners include Robert Schenkkan's All the Way, Dan O'Brien's The Body of an American, Dominique Morrisseau's Detroit '67, Suzan-Lori Parks's Father Comes Home from the Wars, Parts 1, 2 & 3 and Lin-Manuel Miranda's Hamilton. Pulitzer Prizes Web Site This is the official website for The Pulitzer Prizes, which have been honoring excellence in Journalism and the Arts since 1917. The site contains the complete list of Pulitzer Prize winners from 1917 (the first year the Prizes were awarded) to the present. The site also lists Nominated Finalists from 1980 (the first year finalists were announced) through the present, the full text of winning entries in the Journalism categories from 1995 through the present, and selected material from winners in the Letters, Drama and Music and Special Awards and Citations categories. Also included are biographies of winners from 1995 through the present and information on Board members and Nominating Jurors. Faculty Awards The Academic Awards Committee of the Columbia College Student Council presents two awards each year to Columbia faculty members. The Lionel Trilling Book Award "is given to a member of Columbia’s faculty whose book was published in the previous year and upholds a level of excellence commensurate with the work of Lionel Trilling CC '25, GSAS '38." The list of past Trilling winners is available here. The Mark Van Doren Award for Teaching recognizes "a faculty member’s humanity, devotion to truth and inspiring leadership." The list of past Van Doren winners is available here. Finally, the Presidential Teaching Awards recognizes excellence in teaching by faculty members (full- or part-time appointments) and graduate students. Sidebar Columbia University Archives Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor Butler Library 535 West 114th St. M.C. 1127 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-3786 E-mail: uarchives@columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Create or Access Your Special Collections Research Account Columbia University Archives About the University Archives Research & Access Use Policies & Services Collection Overview Columbia History Resources University Archives Research Guides Donating Materials Managing University Records Rare Book & Manuscript Library RBML News CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.