Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Donors Donors Page featured image content Thank you for your gift Page main body content At Syracuse University great libraries are engines of exploration vital to creating new communities of discovery and knowledge. Our students and faculty are global learners and researchers driving ambitious interdisciplinary work, so the Libraries' collections, experts and spaces are constantly being utilized. With our strong and collaborative schools and colleges, diverse student and faculty population and legacy of engagement with information and emerging technologies—it is easy to understand the powerful advantage a strong library brings to the community. Thank you for your interest and support. If you are interested in receiving our magazine and invitations to Libraries' events, sign up to receive Libraries communications. Giving Toggle Ways to Give Content Become a Library Associate through your gift to the Libraries (see below for more information). Give Online Now Choose which area of the Libraries you'd like to give to at GiveToSULibraries.syr.edu By Check/Mail Checks can be made to: Syracuse University Libraries. Use the memo line to specify if there's a specific Libraries' fund where you'd like to donate. Mail to: Syracuse University Libraries Advancement 222 Waverly Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244 Recurring or Installment Giving Divide your pledged gift into monthly, quarterly, biannual or annual payments. Choose the recurring payment option online. You can also schedule payroll deduction. Ask your human resources department to automatically deduct funds from your paycheck on a one-time or recurring basis each pay period. Stocks, Bonds, Securities, Mutual Funds and IRAs; Planned and Estate Giving; Annuities, Trusts and Insurance Policies After talking with your financial advisor, the Syracuse University Planned Giving Office can help you plan a gift that yields maximum financial benefit while supporting the Libraries. Memorial and Honor Giving Do you want to honor or memorialize someone significant in your life? Contact Ronald Thiele, Assistant Dean for Advancement, at rlthiele@syr.edu or 315.560.9419 to discuss the many ways to recognize your honoree. Material Gifts or Gifts in Kind Special Collections, University Archives and Pan Am 103 Archive build Syracuse University Libraries' rare and archival collections in all media formats through gifts in kind and purchase. If you are interested in donating artifacts, books or unique collection materials, please contact Special Collections Research Center at scrc@syr.edu. Toggle Funding Priorities Content Dean's Fund Used to support students’ use of the Libraries to gather socially, collaborate with teams, consult trusted source materials, learn from the examples of others and confer with experts. Services provided include tutoring, teaching, information literacy, technology assistance and resource collections. In a very real and practical sense, the Libraries directly provide needed resources to faculty and students, including important scholarly journals and books, maps, databases, music collections, university archives, rare books, manuscripts, photographs and more. Library Student Employees Scholarship We are proud to employ approximately 150 students annually, offering the students an opportunity for experiential learning in a richly diverse and inclusive community. Our student employees are encouraged to innovate and apply ethical and inclusive decision-making in the context of their roles in the Libraries, while obtaining financial support to help pursue their educational growth aspirations. From our pool of work study students, the Libraries awards annually a number of additional scholarships to a select group of exemplary student employees. LaunchPad Innovation Gift Fund A physical and virtual hub for innovation, we provide a cross-disciplinary program that serves students, alumni, staff, faculty and community members. Your gift to the LaunchPad will support coaching, ideation, venture creation and commercialization for student ventures. SU Press Gift Fund An academic publisher for more than 75 years, we're committed to serving not only the University campus but all of New York State, the region, nation and globe by publishing vital scholarship, sharing ideas, and giving voice to important stories that may not have otherwise been told. This includes providing open access to classic out-of-print titles on New York State history and culture and Irish studies. Your gift to SU Press enables us to continue to support our authors’ publication. Pan Am Flight 103 Archive Gift Fund Syracuse University established the Pan Am Flight 103 Archive to bring together in one place the stories, materials and photos of all 270 people lost in the Pan Am Flight 103 disaster. It provides a place to personalize the lives lost, where the victims’ families can donate materials by or about them. The University also established the Remembrance Scholars, a scholarship and experience for 35 students in their senior year of study at Syracuse University, as a way to “Look Back and Act Forward” in honoring the lives and memories of the daughters, sons, spouses, friends and loved ones lost. A donation to Pan Am Flight 103 enables us to maintain a permanent and living memorial archive for all who perished in the disaster. Special Collections Gift Fund A gift to Special Collections helps to advance scholarship and learning by collecting and preserving rare books, manuscripts and other primary source materials. Our collections span time and format, from cuneiform tablets to born-digital media, and include topics from activism and social reform, architecture and design, popular culture, photography and the history of recorded sound. Your support of Special Collections will help us connect students, scholars and the general public to our collections through exhibitions, lectures and mini-seminars. We are also working to create an endowment to sustain academic opportunity and excellence, including a Special Collections faculty fellowship as well as facilities improvements, including expansion of spaces to preserve materials and conduct curatorial work and research. Toggle Libraries Advisory Board Content Generous alumni and friends of the University helping to achieve the SU Libraries' mission through advocacy and fundraising. Board members are appointed by the Dean of the Libraries and include: Judith C. Mower, Chair, ’66, G’73, G’80, PhD’84, Syracuse, NY Carl Armani ’60, Boulder, CO Joshua C. Aviv '15, G'17,Somerville, MA Laurence G. Bousquet G’68, Syracuse, NY Joan Brodsky ’67, G’68, Chicago, IL Adam Fazackerley '96 Alexandria, VA Amy Fazackerley Alexandria, VA William F. Gaske ’72, Dobbs Ferry, NY Susan Hildreth ’72, Walnut Creek, CA Diane Miron, Manlius, NY Jeffrey N. Rich, ’67, Purchase, NY Todd B. Rubin, '04, Corte Madera, CA Eric Sherman ’91, New York, NY Christine M. Turner P’15, P’17, Berwyn, PA Mark D. Turner P’15, P’17, Berwyn, PA Katheen A. Walters ’73, Atlanta, GA Toggle Library Associates Content Help to strengthen the SU Libraries by going above and beyond their annual library gifts to raise funds for the Libraries' special collections, rare books and manuscripts. Alumni, faculty, staff and friends of the SU Libraries have joined together for nearly 60 years to promote the libraries and our Special Collections. A minimum $50 annual gift to the SU Libraries' Gift Fund or the Dean's Discretionary Fund automatically confirms you as a Library Associate for one year. Give $100 or more annually to access borrowing privileges at SU Libraries. Toggle Additional Information about Donating to Libraries Content Changing Giving Payments To make any changes to your account, contact SU's Office of Donor Relations at 315.443.2432 or email records@syr.edu. Donation Receipts Once your gift has been processed, you will receive a confirmation letter and tax receipt that you can keep for your personal records. You should receive your tax receipt within four to six weeks after we receive your gift. Are gifts tax-deductible? Yes. Syracuse University is recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt entity. Outright gifts, bequests, transfers and other gifts are deductible for federal estate and tax gift purposes if they meet the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code. How can my company match my gift to the SU Libraries? Many employers double or triple charitable donations. Some companies also match gifts made by retirees and/or spouses. Use the online matching gift locator or contact your human resources department to see if your company offers a matching gift program. After you have verified that your company will match a gift to the SU Libraries, please send their form to: Office of Development Syracuse University Suite 100 820 Comstock Avenue Syracuse NY 13244-5040 Once we confirm that we have received your gift, we will complete the appropriate matching gift paperwork and send it to your company for processing. Will my donation be used wisely? Yes! Each gift goes directly to support student services, accessibility to information/resources worldwide, equipment, spaces, and facilities all helping drive student success. How can I subscribe or unsubscribe from your email list? Contact us via email at libcom@syr.edu to change your contact information. Right aside items Contact Us Ronald Thiele Assistant Dean for Advancement p: 315.443.2537 c: 315.560.9419 rlthiele@syr.edu Bianca Caiella Breed Assistant Director for Development c: 315.440.1531 bcaiella@syr.edu GiveToSULibraries.syr.edu Syracuse University Planned Giving Office Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.