Skip To Content University Libraries Library Instruction Services Library Instruction Services The University Libraries provides a variety of instructional services designed to help students develop their research skills. Instructional sessions can be customized to meet a range of learning objectives, from library orientations to advanced research concepts. Quick Links About Library Instruction Services Instructional Calendar Libraries and eCampus School Visitors The Studio Student Learning Outcomes Information Literacy Grants Course Integrated Library Classes Let a librarian help take the confusion out of the research process for your students. Students will learn how to find, evaluate, and use resources for their assignments and research projects. Schedule a Library Class Library Class Guides Online class guides provide links to key library resources and services to help your students with their research. Explore our list of current class guides or request a custom guide for your class today. Class Guides (Spring 2022) View all Class Guides Curriculum Development & Tools Are you designing curriculum, creating a research assignment, or exploring resources for your class? Collaborate with a librarian to customize learning tools and assignments to meet your teaching needs. Tutorial Directory Directory Library Tours The University Libraries spans 5 different locations on the A&M campus. Library tours can help students get acquainted with the organization of our libraries, collections, and basic library help services. Request a library tour Library Workshops & Seminars The University Libraries offers a variety of workshops and seminars on special topics. Learn more about bibliographic management software, GIS data, copyright, and much more. Library Workshops Request a Workshop Library Orientations & Outreach Do you have a group interested in learning more about the University Libraries? We can customize a library presentation for your student organization, campus unit or group meeting. Request a Workshop AskUs anything at anytime. Quick Help: Chat with Us Call Us Text Us @ 979-256-1091 Email Us Expert Help: Find My Librarian Schedule a Research Consultation Request a Library Class or Workshop Find a Tutorial Support the Libraries About the Libraries Quick Phone & Mailing List Directory | Find my Librarian Employment Diversity Matters Site Map | Site Search Follow Us Facebook Twitter You Tube Instagram howdy.tamu.edu Off-Campus Access Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Texas CREWS Comments Services Status