My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) Services & Tools Request Items & Services Borrow Direct Borrow Direct ***Please note that due to ongoing pandemic-related delay, delivery time for Borrow Direct requests may be 1-2 weeks.*** Log in to Borrow Direct Please find up-to-date information the Libraries Status Updates webpage Borrow Direct enables current faculty, students and staff from Columbia, Barnard, and Union Theological Seminary to request material from partner libraries. Log in to your CLIO My Library Account to view items charged out to you. Borrow Direct materials are listed in all-caps with an Item Type of bdir. The Borrow Direct service also can be used to search for and request materials held by the Center for Research Libraries (CRL). Requests for CRL materials are routed through the Interlibrary Loan (ILL) system, allowing for longer loan periods of books, dissertations, journals, and newspapers in print or microform. You may request materials from the following institutions: Brown Cornell Dartmouth Duke Harvard Johns Hopkins University Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Princeton Stanford University of Chicago University of Pennsylvania Yale Eligibility Please check Columbia University Libraries' Access Privileges for eligibility. What Can Be Borrowed Printed books, music scores, DVDs and CDs not available at Columbia, with the following exceptions: Non-circulating materials from other library collections Journal articles or bound journals (bound journals can be requested only from the Center for Research Libraries) Microforms (can be borrowed only from University of Chicago and Center for Research Libraries) Loan Details Loan Periods and Returns: Sixteen (16) weeks and not renewable. Contact lio@columbia.edu if you have any questions or require assistance. Recalls: All Borrow Direct books are subject to recall by the lending partner. Most recalls are for books intended for Reserves. Please return all recalled items as soon as possible. Hold Period: You will be notified by email when your request is available for pick-up. All items will be held for 7 days at the selected delivery locations. Turnaround Time: Please expect a longer turnaround time than the usual 3-5 business days. A business day for the Libraries is Monday to Friday, excluding University Holidays. An email notice will be sent to your Columbia email account when item is ready for pick-up. Delivery Locations Request delivery to any of the following libraries: Avery Library Barnard Library Burke Library [UTS] Business Library (Uris) Business Library (Manhattanville) Butler Library East Asian Library (Starr) Health Sciences Journalism Library Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Lehman Library Mathematics Library Music Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Borrow Direct Vs. Interlibrary Loan To request scans or loans that are outside the scope of Borrow Direct use Interlibrary Loan or consult the Request Items & Services webpage. Having trouble deciding between Borrow Direct and ILL? Compare services. How To Use Borrow Direct Click on the "Pick-Up (Borrow Direct)" link in CLIO and enter your Columbia University Network ID (UNI) and password. Enter your search term(s) in the single Simple Search box, or click on Advanced Search for more options. Advanced Search gives you the option to: search by keyword, author, title, subject and/or ISBN combine two or more search types, e.g. author & title or keyword & subject limit your search to “all of these words,” “any of these words,” or “this phrase” The multi-color spinning circle icon indicates the search progress. Click on the specific title to determine if it can be borrowed via Borrow Direct. A format icon displays on the right-hand side of the results to help you focus on the pertinent version. The system will look for available copies (“Searching for sources of this title”) and will display the results below the item’s bibliographic information. Note: You may have to scroll down to see all available copies. If the item is available to borrow via Borrow Direct, select a pick-up location from the drop-down list, include a pertinent note if necessary in the Volume(s) Needed field, and click on the Request button. If the item is available to check out at Columbia, click the link View in the COLUMBIA Library Catalog to view in CLIO. If the item is held at Offsite, place a request for it using the "Pick-Up" hyperlink in CLIO. A request submission message will display, including your request number. An e-mail confirmation of your request will be sent to you, generally within a few minutes. Save the e-mail and request number in case you wish to check on the status of your request at a later time. Another e-mail will be sent to alert you when the item is available for pick–up. Please log out. Make sure to click on the Logout link that appears at the top of the Borrow Direct screen to ensure your privacy and the security of the system. Contact Information Location: 106 Butler Library E-mail: borrowdirect@columbia.edu Phone: 212-854-7535 Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Ask a Librarian Course Reserves Digital Scholarship Research Data Services Study Spaces Library Information Office Preservation & Digital Conversion Division Request Items & Services Other Library Catalogs Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian