Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Collections Charles S. Peirce Papers More than 100,000 pages of working notes and drafts by the influential philosopher and scientist. About Charles S. Peirce Labyrinth, from [Fragments on Games]: autograph manuscript, undated. MS Am 1632 (1537) Houghton Library One of the most creative and versatile intellectual figures of the last two centuries, Charles Sanders Peirce was a mathematician and a scientist, but is now best known as a philosopher, the founder of American pragmatism, and as a theorist of logic as semiotic (a theory of how human experience grows by means of the mediating structures we create). For 32 years he practiced geodesy and chemistry for the U.S. Coast and Geodesic Survey, and his polymathic mind led him to research and writing on an immense range of topics. Peirce called himself a logician, and his logical theories informed his work in pragmatism, metaphysics, scientific analyses, historical studies, and even his experimental work. The logic of scientific methodology, particularly the logic of discovery, interested him deeply, and makes his work significant today. Interest in Peirce’s concepts now goes far outside the boundary of academic philosophy, with groundbreaking contributions to mathematics, experimental psychology, cosmology, cartography, historiography, and computer science. His work has had application to intelligence organizations, the military, technology, and transdisciplinary science. Prolegomena to an Apology for Pragmatism, autograph manuscript, circa 1906. MS Am 1632 (292a) p. 44. Houghton Library The Peirce Archive The Peirce papers at Houghton Library comprise an estimated 100,000 pages. Peirce published some 12,000 pages of scientific and philosophical work during his lifetime. The Chronological Edition of the Peirce Edition Project has published eight of a projected 30 volumes, editing works through 1892. But Peirce’s mature work is only available in his papers at Houghton Library. These, estimated at some 50,000 manuscript pages, remain unpublished, and are in brittle condition. While some of these documents are available on a poor-quality, 60-year-old black and white microfilm, scholars have found that linear format limiting, and it fails to capture Peirce's meaningful use of color. Further, while several efforts have been made to categorize and catalog them, most notably by Richard Robin, Peirce’s essentially non-linear working method, his habit of writing and re-writing and revising through several (usually undated) drafts, combined with his increased use of colorful graphical representation, makes presentation in printed transcription difficult. The Digitization Initiative Digitization of the Peirce papers makes the raw material for further study of his concepts freely available to all. While some 2,000 images are now available, a group of Peirce scholars has initiated an effort to digitize the important late manuscripts, some 50,000 pages. This copyright-free material can then be transcribed and assembled by researchers worldwide: as conjectured reconstructions of Peirce’s intended works, or in research to apply his ideas, or to continue developing his many promising insights. In online media Peirce’s ideas can continue to evolve, with broad participation from scientific and other disciplinary perspectives, as Peirce would have hoped. Support Digitization Digitization goal: $50,000 Thank you to our generous donors; the goal has been reached! Raised to date: $50,535 (last updated February 2022) Further Reading The Fortunes and Misfortunes of the Peirce Papers Communication, Semiotic Continuity, and the Margins of the Peircean Text Discovering the Future in the Past Prelogical Notions. Section I. Classification of the Sciences (Logic II), autograph manuscript, begun February 20, 1902. MS Am 1632 (427). Houghton Library Accessing These Materials A summary description of the Charles S. Peirce Papers can be found in HOLLIS. A more detailed guide to the collection, with links to those documents that have been digitized and put online, can be found in HOLLIS for Archival Discovery. The papers are kept onsite, and are available in the Houghton Reading Room. Contact Houghton Reference email: Email Phone number 6174952441 Related Collections Collection Modern American Culture Collections Collection Modern American Culture Collections Houghton Library’s American Culture Collections include the books and papers of some of America's most notable 19th- and 20th-century literary figures. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.