Skip to Content SDSU Library Find Research Guides OneSearch Journals & Databases Archives & Manuscripts Digital Collections Course Reserves About Course Reserves Course Guides Find Media Find Media Equipment Find by Citation Help & Services Ask a Librarian Borrowing Print Services Tutorials Research Help Citation Help Computers & Technology Tutoring Faculty Graduate Students Alumni & Community Users Campus Map & Directions Library Spaces Reserve a Study Room Study Rooms/Spaces Library Floors & Locations Take A Look Library Computing Hub buildIT Research Services Circulation Special Collections Digital Financial Markets Lab Digital Humanities Center About Us Dean's Welcome News & Events Hours Our Strategic Plan Diversity Fast Facts People & Departments Employment Opportunities Policies & Guidelines Student Use Fee Collections Partners Featured Partners Give Login Your SDSU Account Logins My Library Account Library Login Interlibrary Loan Illiad Login SDSUid SDSUid Login Canvas Canvas Login Update: We're open to the public and you no longer need to show proof of vaccine. Please read our access policies for more information. All OneSearch Books Articles Journals Databases Archives Website Search All Using OneSearch Search SDSU Library All Search Search across selected library resources, or explore the Research Guides OneSearch Advanced Search Search OneSearch Search Search articles, library catalogs or course reserves. Search Books New Books Search SDSU Books & Media search by Keyword Title Author/Creator Subject Search eBooks only IV Campus only Search the print and electronic book collections. Search Articles Search Articles OneSearch EBSCO* Search Peer-Reviewed Full-Text Only Search across a large selection of journal articles. *EBSCO results may not appear in OneSearch. Search Journals Search Journals Search Search for journals, magazines and newspapers by title. Search Databases Databases A-Z Search Database by Title Search Search for discipline specific article databases by title. Search Archives Finding Aid Database Search SDSU Archives & Manuscripts Search Search archives and manuscripts held in the SDSU Special Collections. Search Website Search SDSU Library Website Search Search the SDSU Library website. Notices Hours Events FAQ Donate E-News Check our hours calendar for the most current information on when we're open. Library Buildings: Closed Online Research Help: 24/7 Hours Calendar See Events Calendar Frequently Answered Questions Have a question? We have answers! Visit our Library FAQ page to learn how to return a book, access a database, find an ebook and more. Library FAQ Support the Library Learn how your donations can support the SDSU Library. Donation Info Donate Now Subscribe to E-News Keep up with the SDSU Library by subscribing to our Email Newsletter. Subscribe to E-News View Archive News & Events Summer @ the Library https://libguides.sdsu.edu/streamingmediaTips for doing research during the summer, plus sources for reading recommendations. Summer Time Library Style Find Full Text Articles and Journals Instantly! Use OneSearch and databases to access full text articles, both on and off campus. Find Full Text Summer Hours Our hours will change for the summer months, beginning on May 23. Check our summer hours Featured Database Homeland Security Digital Library Documents related to homeland security policy, strategy, and organizational management from sources such as federal, state and local governments; international governments; nonprofits and private entities. Search HSDL Featured Database LearnTechLib Peer-reviewed articles and abstracts, conference papers, and additional multimedia-rich resources focused on learning and technology. Search LearnTechLib Virtual Resources Remote Labs Connect to a computer in a campus computer lab to access special software such as ArcGIS, SPSS, and more. Meet with a Librarian Contact a librarian to schedule a Zoom appointment to get in-depth help with your research. Software Installs Download campus licensed software from Adobe, Microsoft, SPSS and other vendors for your classes. Streaming Media Access numerous video and audio streaming resources from Kanopy, Swank, and other providers with your SDSUid. Research Tutorials Master MLA and APA citations, navigate OneSearch, and become a better researcher with our online tutorials. Digital Collections Explore our Digital Collections for SDSU theses and dissertations, historical photos, manuscripts and more. Digital Humanities Center As the hub of SDSU's Digital Humanities Initiative, the DH Center supports ethical, anti-racist, and anti-oppressive research, teaching, and learning that values the importance of the humanities in the digital age. Learn more about the DH Center Student Success Zones buildIT @SDSU build IT @SDSU Library is a student-run makerspace designed to foster creativity, encourage innovation, and bring ideas to life. Math & Stats Center The Math & Stats Learning Center provides free, on-demand tutoring for SDSU students from all lower division mathematics and statistics courses. The Writing Center The Writing Center is a free service for SDSU students and faculty. The tutors are graduate and undergraduate students, trained in tutoring writing. SDSU Library Your space for research, collaboration and creativity. Circulation Media Research Services Comp & Tech Special Collections General Library Support Library TODAY Check our hours calendar for the most current information on when we're open. Your Library News & Events All Blogs Reserve a Study Room About the Library Library SharePoint (Library Use Only) CONTACT US 5500 Campanile Drive San Diego, California 92182-8050 Contact the Library eref@sdsu.edu Chat with a Librarian SDSU Library on Facebook SDSU Library Twitter Feed SDSU Library Instagram SPECIAL FEATURE Our Hours Calendar. Copyright © 2022 San Diego State University Library Accessibility | Land Acknowledgement | SDSU Digital Privacy Statement | Document Viewers Back to Top