Skip To Content University Libraries Borrowing Renewals, Recalls & Returns Renewals, Recalls & Returns Renewals Recalls Returns Renewals Need to keep an item longer? Be our guest! Most items that have been checked out from the library can have their loan period extended beyond the due date. Once you reach your renewal limit you must bring your item(s) back to the library in order to reset the renewal counter. You cannot renew items if your account has been blocked. If you need information regarding your blocked account, please contact AskUs services for details. Renew In Person Items that have not been recalled, or have not exceeded their renewal limit, may be renewed at any library AskUs desk with the exception of Cushing, our special collections library. Renew Online Texas A&M University Students, Faculty, and Staff Log into MyLibrary with your NetID. From the Dashboard, click on My Record or Checked Out to see list of checked out material. Click on Renew All Items or click the Renew button next to each individual item you wish to renew. TexShare and Community/Courtesy Users Go to your LibCat or MSL Catalog account. Under Courtesy Borrowers enter your card number and last name in the login boxes. Click the Login button. Click the Select All checkbox to renew all eligible items, or click the checkboxes next to individual items you wish to renew. Click the Renew button. You should receive an email confirmation. If you have a problem, please contact call us: LibCat renewals 979-845-3731. MSL Catalog renewals 979-845-7428. Online Renewal Exceptions Due to their special nature, the following items cannot be renewed online: Periodicals (i.e., print journals, magazines, and other related items). Laptops. Recalled items. Course reserve items. Media equipment - projectors, cameras, calculators, etc. DVDs/Blu-rays & music CDs Items that have been declared lost or damaged. Service request forms Renew my items Find and hold a book for me (Get It For Me) Search for an item missing from the shelves Need help? AskUs Chat with us Call us Email us Support the Libraries AskUs anything at anytime. Chat with Us Call Us Text Us @ 979-256-1091 Email Us About the Libraries Quick Phone & Mailing List Directory | Find my Librarian Employment Diversity Matters Site Map | Site Search Follow Us Facebook Twitter You Tube Instagram