CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Managing University Records Overview The following is a description of services that the University Archives and Records Management department offers. For more information, please contact records@columbia.edu. Records Management helps offices assess their records and record types for retention and disposition. provides advice about file management, offsite storage and policy compliance. identifies records of enduring historical value for transfer to the Archives. We are here to help you manage your records: What records do you need to keep; how long do you need to keep them for; how to dispose of records; and which to transfer to the Archives. University Archives takes custody of inactive records with enduring historical value. provides inventories, access to your files and/or research services. **All administrative records received by the University Archives are available to the originating office, but are automatically restricted for a period of 25 years from the date of creation for outside researchers.** Resources General Records Guidelines These guidelines serve as an introduction to records management and as a guide to existing policies and resources available on campus. These guidelines apply both to paper and electronic records. Record Packing Tips Not all records need to be kept readily available at all times. When files become less active and are only accessed sporadically, these records can be kept in storage areas or sent to offsite storage. Here are some tips on how to pack your records for storage. Training Slides This section offers a number of slide presentations to help you become better acquainted with records management principles and best practices. And the presentations include images from the University Archives collections. Services & Vendors Find out about the University's preferred vendors for records management services such as offsite storage and shredding. Learn how to be in compliance with the University's disposal of information resources policy. Managing eFiles Most users are familiar with organizing file folders and filing cabinets in the paper world. Managing electronic records presents some different challenges. We have complied a list of best practices on how to organize electronic files in shared drives (folder systems), how to name files (naming conventions), and how to manage works in progress (version control). Website Preservation As more and more publications go online, certain material is now only published on the University's website. Websites are university documents. Here is some information on how to create sites for preservation, how we archive websites and how you can help in these preservation efforts. Learn also about some tools that can help you archive social media content. Transferring Digital Records to the University Archives Here are some strategies on how to prepare your records when you are ready to transfer records of enduring historical value to the University Archives. Sidebar Columbia University Archives Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor Butler Library 535 West 114th St. M.C. 1127 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-3786 E-mail: uarchives@columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Create or Access Your Special Collections Research Account Columbia University Archives About the University Archives Research & Access Use Policies & Services Collection Overview Columbia History Resources University Archives Research Guides Donating Materials Managing University Records Rare Book & Manuscript Library RBML News CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.