Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home King + King Architecture Library King + King Architecture Library Page featured image content Page main body content On the 3rd floor of Slocum Hall, King + King Architecture Library serves the needs of School of Architecture and the University community interested in architecture resources. Main Service Area Room 302 Includes the service desk, a library catalog look-up station, three computer workstations and two scanners, as well as permanent reference collection and current periodical titles for student and faculty use. This includes complete works, building codes, technical sources and key titles, which have a two-hour circulation period. Current periodical titles are kept in King + King Architecture Library from two months to a year. Each issue is barcoded and circulates for two hours. Seminar Room 301 Serves as a seminar space for select architecture classes. It houses bound periodicals, course reserves and designated parts of the Working Drawings Collection. King + King Architecture Library currently houses a limited selection of the print-based collection of over 280 non-circulating sets of working drawings from various sources. The majority of working drawings, used for reference and the Advanced Building Systems class, are housed off-site and may be requested with prior notice. Main Collections Room 304 An open study space and the general stack collection of over thirty five hundred volumes includes basic surveys, monographs on key figures in architecture, building type studies and technology resources. The loan period is a week. Materials A collection of physical material samples can be borrowed for 2 hours. Theses/Theses Prep Books A selection of past theses are available for viewing online through SURFACE. Meet the Architecture Librarian Meet Barbara Opar, the Architecture Librarian Tour of King + King Architecture Library Right aside items Contact Us Slocum Hall Room 302 Syracuse, NY 13244 Map It 315.443.3518 arrstaff@syr.edu Barbara Opar, Architecture Librarian Related Links Building and Service Desk Hours Architecture Research Guide Architecture Materials Collection Selected Topics in Architecture Guide Architecture Working Drawings Request FORM Bird Library Carnegie Library Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.