CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Special Collections The Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary provides access to rare books, manuscripts, and archives. Follow the instructions below to request in-person viewing of material. For general questions about Special Collections held at the Burke Library, email burkespecial@library.columbia.edu. More information and lists of our Special Collections are found at these links: Rare Books & Manuscripts Archives ACCESS Special collections material do not circulate and can only be accessed by appointment in our reading room. Please do not travel to Burke Special Collections until you have an appointment confirmed by Burke staff. Please check Library Status Updates and email burkespecial@library.columbia.edu for current visitor policies. Appointment and materials requests must be submitted with at least 5 business days' notice (e.g. items requested at 2 p.m. on Monday can be available by 2 p.m. the following Monday). Appointments can be accommodated during the following hours (except holidays on the library calendar): Monday-Friday, 10am-4pm Register To make an appointment and request special collections material, researchers are required to register their own Special Collections Research Account. You will need to provide a current address, email, telephone number, and other contact information. Upon your first visit, you will need to validate your account in-person with government issued photo identification or Columbia ID, and we will take your photo for security purposes. Request Once you have created your Special Collections Research Account, you will be able to request appointments and materials from the same online portal. Up to 6 items or archives boxes may be requested per appointment. Burke staff will reply to requests via email. Reminder: Please do not travel to the Burke Library until you have an appointment confirmed by Burke staff. To request rare books and manuscripts, or archival collections with PDF finding aids, find the specific catalog record on CLIO, the online catalog for Columbia University Libraries. From the CLIO record page, look to the right side of the page for the location and holdings information, and click on “Request: Special Collections.” That link will take you to a pre-filled form in your Special Collections Research Account. On that form, select your appointment (tip: click on the “New Appointment” button at the bottom to select a new date & time), add any other notes, and submit your request. To request archival collections with finding aids on the Archival Collections Portal, find the collection description page, and scroll to or click on the “Container List” heading linked on the left side. Look for the check boxes on the right side of the page, click on the check boxes for the specific archives boxes that you need, scroll back to the top of the Container List, and click on the “Submit Request” button in the red-rimmed box. Visit The Burke Library is located at 3041 Broadway, inside the Union Theological Seminary building. The Special Collections Reading Room is on the 3rd floor of the library. You may also wish to consult a map of Columbia University's main campus, where the Library Information Office (LIO) is located. To cancel or reschedule, or if you are late and need to delay your appointment, contact the Burke staff ASAP at burkespecial@library.columbia.edu. We reserve the right to cancel the remainder of your appointment if you are over 1 hour late. Before arriving, please complete the Columbia Symptom Self-Check. You will need to show a Green Pass to enter the building and library. If you receive a “red” pass, please stay home; contact us to reschedule your appointment for a later time. Library services are subject to the Columbia University COVID-19 health policies. Our specific procedures at the Burke Library may change on short notice. Please follow all instructions from Burke staff members on the day of your visit. Use Policies and procedures for using Special Collections at the Burke Library: Theft, destruction or mutilation of the special collections materials is a crime. Follow staff instructions on the handling of material. Keep all special collections material flat and completely on the table, or on provided book cradles, and clear of personal belongings (e.g. do not place your notebook on top of an archives folder). Maintain the original order of any unbound material. Pencils, laptops, and tablets may be used for note taking. Not allowed are: pens, highlighters, markers, or post-it notes. The use of a digital camera without flash is permitted for private research purposes. Please do not take photos of other researchers. Silence cell phones and similar electronic devices. Please be quiet and considerate of other researchers. All coats, hats, briefcases, bags, backpacks, and purses are required to be stored in a designated secure private area outside the Reading Room. No food, drink, or gum is allowed in the Reading Room. Researchers can further prepare by viewing these videos on the care and handling of special collections materials. Copyright Please be advised that some of the materials found in our collections are protected by copyright laws. For more information to assist you in understanding more about copyright, your obligations in using copyright protected materials and fair use, see Copyright Advisory Services. Reprography Digitization and copying services can be found through the Preservation & Digital Conversion Division. Sidebar The Burke Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact Union Theological Seminary 3041 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 851-5606 E-mail: burke@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Burke Library Links About Staff Directions Access & Circulation Related Links Health Advisory Regarding COVID-19 Burke Library Blog Burke Library Friends Union Theological Seminary CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.