Columbia University Libraries Columbia University » Home Libraries » Home Digital Library Collections » Home Columbia Libraries Locations Columbia Archival Collections Portal CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog Log In Help About Ask a Librarian Suggestions & Feedback Library Hours Maps and Locations Terms of Use Ford Foundation International Fellowships Program Archive Search in Fulltext for Q IFP Countries Brazil Chile China Egypt Ghana Guatemala India Indonesia Kenya Mexico Mozambique Nigeria Palestine Peru Philippines Russia Senegal South Africa Tanzania Thailand Uganda Vietnam Secretariat Permanent URL Previous Next ABOUT IFP The IFP program began in November 2000 with four pilot sites. In Asia, the program was initiated in Vietnam. In Africa, the first competition was held in West Africa (Ghana, Nigeria and Senegal). In Latin America, IFP began in the Andean Region as Southern Cone (Chile and Peru). Russia was the final pilot site. The first 96 Fellows from these countries were named in 2001. In February 2002, 173 new Fellows from the pilot site countries and from India, China, Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Mexico and Guatemala were announced. During 2002, the program expanded to seven additional countries and territories: Brazil, Egypt, Indonesia, Mozambique, Palestine, Philippines and South Africa. For the selections in 2003, the program expanded to Thailand. Learn More » ABOUT THE COLLECTION The archives cover the issues of social justice, community development, and access to higher education, and include paper and digital documentation and audiovisual materials on the more than 4,300 IFP Fellows as well as comprehensive planning and administrative files of the program. Collection Guide (Finding Aid) Link to IFP Collection Guide Archived IFP Websites IFP Web Archive IFP Community and Research IFP Alumni Tracking Study IFP COUNTRIES Brazil Chile China Egypt Ghana Guatemala India Indonesia Kenya Mexico Mozambique Nigeria Palestine Peru Philippines Russia Senegal South Africa Tanzania Thailand Uganda Vietnam Secretariat 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 • Telephone (212) 854-7309 Order a Reproduction | Copyright and Permissions | Suggestions & Feedback