Off-Campus Access | Library A–Z | Hours & Locations Search: Search BruKnow Library Website WorldCat Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Eresources and Off-Campus Access Service Off-campus access is now integrated with your Brown username and password for most journals, databases, and ebooks. Our content partners authenticate users by their Brown username and password using a tool called EZProxy. When you click an eresource link such as an online journal, EZProxy automatically edits the link to include revproxy.brown.edu and triggers the Shibboleth authentication process. Enter your Brown credentials as usual and you will be redirected to the content with full access. Report an Eresource Problem Frequently Asked Questions Who is eligible for off-campus access? Access to the Library's eresources is restricted to current Brown faculty, staff, students, and certain sponsored ID holders. I am an alumnus/a; what resources am I eligible for? Although our license agreements often prevent us from extending full privileges to alumni, some Library eresources are available through Brown Alumni & Friends, including JSTOR, Project Muse, and SAGE. We encourage everyone to use tools such as the Open Access Button or Unpaywall in their research. The Library's Electronic Resources Department works continuously to extend additional resources to alumni whenever fiscally and contractually possible. Troubleshooting off-campus access problems I entered my Brown username and password; why did I receive an Access Report error? There are several reasons why access may be denied. Recent graduates or those whose status with the University has changed may no longer have access to the Library's eresources. If you are a Brown affiliate with a Sponsored ID, please contact your sponsoring department to request or renew your eresources access permissions. The link to the journal or database I saved is no longer working. How do I access my content? First, check the Journals A-Z and Databases A-Z pages to ensure that the Library currently subscribes to the eresource. Our active subscriptions and licenses are subject to change, and titles may have been removed. Next, check the URL itself. It should include revproxy.brown.edu to trigger the EZProxy authentication process. Clearing your cache (browsing history), trying a different browser, or using a direct link from BruKnow can also help. Check the Library's blog for known service interruptions and vendor issues. Still not working? Fill out the Electronic Resources Problem Report Form on this page. I have forgotten my username and/or password. Contact Computing Accounts by calling the CIS Help Desk at 863-HELP (863-4357) or email to cap@brown.edu. Virtual Private Network (VPN) A few Library eresources, such as SciFinder, require a VPN. VPN is another method that allows you to connect to Brown's network from any location. For more information and instructions, see VPN Documentation. For assistance with the VPN, contact the CIS Help Desk: help@brown.edu or 863-HELP (863-4357). Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet