Clemson University A-Z Index Phonebook MENUMENU Find & Borrow Find Books, Articles & More Databases Journals Course Reserves Research & Course Guides WorldCat Borrow Technology Interlibrary Loan PASCAL Delivers Scan and Deliver Off-Campus Delivery Service Explore - State Park Passes Borrowing Privileges Unique collections Gunnin Architecture Library Digital Collections Education Media Center & Digital Media Learning Lab Special Collections and Archives TigerPrints Help Finding Library Materials Borrowing Help Offsite Shelving Circulation Policies Library Fines and Fees Proxy Card Service Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Research & Teaching Research Support Research & Course Guides Citation Management Subject Librarians Undergraduate Research Award Teaching Support Course Instruction Workshops Tutorials Course Reserves Open Educational Resources (OER) Digital Scholarship & Publishing Data Services Digital Projects Support Publishing & Copyright Clemson University Press Help Getting Started with Research Proxy Card Service Purchase Request Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Study & Create Study Spaces Library Locations Learning Commons Creative Spaces Adobe Digital Studio Brown Digital Lab Cooper Makerspace Digital Media Learning Lab Geospatial Center Scholars’ Lab Amenities Starbucks - Cooper Library POD - Cooper Library Reflection Room Help Find Printers & Scanners Academic Success Center CCIT Support Center Michelin Career Center Writing Lab Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions About Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Locations & Parking Floor Maps Our Organization Welcome from the Dean News Staff Directory Policies Accessibility Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Library Residents Program Strategic Plan Organizational Chart Libraries Reorganization Overview Cooper 2.0: A Vision for the Future Employment Opportunities Clemson Libraries Advisory Committee Library Depot Giving Giving Home Honor with Books Fund Friends of the Libraries Help Contact Us Records Management Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Make a Suggestion R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU My Account Giving Help Cooper 2.0: A Vision for the Future It starts with a vision The R.M. Cooper Library has been the heart of Clemson’s campus ever since it opened its doors in 1966. It is a gathering place, a study space, and the gateway to a wealth of information and resources for scholars and researchers from every discipline. It is the place where students can get the expert help they need as they start their own research journeys, and a repository where faculty researchers can share their discoveries with the world. Just as Clemson University has transformed over the past 56 years from a small, regional public college to a nationally known R-1 research university, Cooper Library has also evolved to meet the ever-changing needs of our students, faculty and staff. But we need to do more. We have a vision of Cooper Library as a national leader among public research university libraries, as model of innovation and as the research hub on the Clemson University campus. In order to move towards this vision, library leadership has commissioned several recent studies to help identify gaps and opportunities for growth and improvement. Provide feedback on our plans Visit Updates Blog (coming soon) Give to support this initiative Putting the vision on paper In 2019, library leadership created a task force to research what it would take for Cooper Library to become a Research 1 Library. Those findings and recommendations are outlined in the R1 Library Task Force Report. Also in 2019, Brightspot Strategy conducted a master plan study that looked at how Cooper Library could renovate its existing space and enhance services and collections to better serve the university community and the research mission of the university. Read the full Brightspot master plan report. In 2020, Collins Cooper Carusi Architects built upon the work done by Brightspot and conducted a master plan study that includes expanding the footprint of Cooper Library to create more space for patrons, collections, services and partner organizations. Read the full Collins Cooper Carusi master plan study report. Realizing the vision Inspired by those studies, work has been underway on a number of small projects to help get us closer to our vision for the next version of the R.M. Cooper Library. Smaller facility upgrades – from fresh paint on the walls to the creation of new group study spaces – are always underway. Keep up with the latest building projects updates as we continue to move Cooper Library into the future. Your affiliation with Clemson Undergraduate Student Graduate Student Current Faculty or Staff Member Emeritus Alumnus Community Member Other Affiliation Please describe your affiliation with Clemson * Required Feedback Email If you would like us to follow up with you, please feel free to provide an email address. Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Δ × Clemson University Libraries 116 Sigma Drive, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3027 Directory Employment Contact Us