Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog How to... Teach Remotely with Harvard Library Teaching a class remotely? Harvard Library can help. Personalized Help Workshops use digital materials University Resources Get Personalized Help Teaching a class remotely during the Spring 2021 semester? Let our expert staff help you get the most out of the library for your courses. We can help you find digital materials, create course guides, and provide online library instruction and virtual library visits. Library liaisons can partner with you to: Make syllabus substitutions. Find alternative readings that allow for simultaneous access for the entire class. Discover materials that are newly available online. Many publishers have made materials temporarily available online for free during the pandemic. Tailor library instruction for your students. Invite a librarian to visit your class or section and help get your students on the right track, with a session customized to the needs of your course. Use digital tools. Learn about new online tools, like OpenRefine for data mining or Photogrammetry for 3D image capture, with our Remote Media Help team. Arrange a remote special collections visit. Our curators, archivists, and other specialists can join your virtual classroom to lead a session on using primary resources. Embed a subject librarian in your Canvas site. Get set up with a Canvas Course Librarian. Service Research Consultations Get personalized guidance from one of our library specialists online or in-person—no question is too small. Service Library Liaisons Make an appointment with a library liaison to get the help you need to get your work done. Service Remote Media Help Looking for remote help with video, podcasting, AR/VR, visualization, or other media? The media& group is here to help. Service Teach with Houghton Library Collaborate with us to design engaging learning experiences for your students and incorporate primary source materials. Service Teaching and Learning with 3D Content Finding, using, and generating new dimensions of content for teaching. Service Teach with Special Collections Discover, engage, and collaborate with Special Collections to help students use primary sources and understand material culture. Digital Course Reserves We can digitize your physical course reserves so they're available to your students in Canvas while you're teaching remotely. Submit Request Workshops Spring 2021 Workshops for Faculty Getting ready for a successful remote semester? Our Teaching with the Library workshops are designed to help you maximize library resources for your upcoming classes. Course Materials for Remote Instruction How to Integrate a Librarian into Your Course Copyright and Your Course Course Materials for Remote Instruction How to Integrate a Librarian into Your Course Copyright and Your Course Remote Teaching with Primary Sources and Digital Objects Integrating Media into the Classroom Show LessShow More Working with Digital Course Materials We offer services and tools designed to make it easier for your students to access the materials and resources they need, from anywhere in the world. Harvard Library is working to find existing digital materials for use by faculty in remote teaching wherever possible. Complete the Course Materials Digitization Form to place a request. For the spring 2021 semester, requests made before December 1st will be given priority. Due to COVID-19, some publishers are making their content freely available, learn more in our guide to COVID-19 Open-Access Resources. Service Course Reserves We work with faculty and instructors to help provide students with access to course materials. Tool Lean Library Use this browser extension to seamlessly access Harvard Library resources from anywhere on the web. Service Copyright First Responders CFRs have specialized training in copyright law and policy and can help tackle your questions. Tool HathiTrust Connect with digitized materials from libraries around the world. Service Scan & Deliver Request library materials—from book chapters and periodicals to special collections and ephemera—and we will digitize and send them to your inbox. Service Swank Digital Campus Faculty can request films from major motion picture studios for use in their courses. SEE ALL SERVICES & TOOLS Discover digital collections Harvard Digital Collections provides free, public access to more than 6 million objects digitized from our collections - from ancient art to modern manuscripts and audio visual materials. Search digital collections University Teaching Resources Partner sites from across the University have information to help you teach your class remotely — learn about using Canvas, Zoom, and other resources. Teach Remotely Academic Technology Group Division of Continuing Education Teach Remotely Academic Technology Group Division of Continuing Education Derek Bok Center for Teaching & Learning Show LessShow More Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.