CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Research Data Services Your Research Has a Story We Will Help You Tell It Research Data Services understands that a research project is always a process that requires different skills at different steps. We provide a range of services and programs, host events and workshops, and partner with faculty and students in collaborative projects to help you find, evaluate, understand, steward and use data. set up a consultationAttend a workshop Find Data Research data guides: browse curated guides for data research. GeoData@Columbia: view the portal for previewing, discovering and downloading geospatial data. Ask Us: get in touch to learn if we have relevant data or can help you find it. Work with Data Technical help: meet with a librarian to discuss Python, R, Stata, SPSS, GIS, and JavaScript. Research Data Management: consult with a librarian to discuss your research data and project, including your data management plan. Text Mining guide: learn about opportunities for text and data mining research. Web projects: develop an online presence for your research project and data. Columbia Research Data: familiarize yourself with research data policies and options beyond the Libraries. Join Data Club Data Club: work with data and sharpen your skills in data analysis, management, and other aspects of the data life cycle. Open to beginners and experts: experiment with new libraries or techniques, usually in Python or R. Data Club: learn more and join our mailing list from the club's page. Visit Our Studios Columbia University Libraries Studio is a unique space and practice that enables and promotes ethical, sustainable, FAIR, and collaborative, digital and data-driven research and pedagogy. We host Studio Open Labs and Studio Workshops at Lehman 215 and Butler 208B. Learn more on the Studio page. Season one was streamed live on Twitch, now archived and available to watch on the Columbia University Libraries Studio YouTube channel. Season one, The Rose Hall Project, focused on building a digital scholarship project from the ground up. Research Data Librarian Moacir P. de Sá Pereira streams on Tuesdays, from 3:00pm to 5:00pm New York time, for the Studio Remote’s Coding with the Dead where Moacir works on, and builds Wandertext, a project dedicated to creating datasets, thereby providing a semantically rich catalog of places referred to in various “texts” (understood broadly) that can then be cross-referenced with each other. Partner With Us Below you can get a sampling of some of our current partnerships. Frontline Nurses: Leaders in Pandemic Response seeks to document the role of frontline nurses in pandemic disease outbreaks, to recognize nurses and midwives for their critical contribution to public health during emergencies, and to advocate for nurses’ expertise in health care policymaking and improved health outcomes. There are around 90,000+ missing persons in Mexico. Predominantly women-led, self-sustaining “colectivos” of “buscadoras” (searchers) have organized themselves to find their loved ones. Supported by a Magic Grant from Columbia's Brown Institute, The Buscadoras Documentation Project responds to this movement with a bilingual, online toolkit to serve as a repository and portal that offers a productive and practical space for socializing information, inter-communication, critical analysis, and collective memory construction. The COVID Information Commons (CIC) is an open website to facilitate knowledge sharing and collaboration across various COVID research efforts, initiated by the NSF Convergence Accelerator. The initial focus of the CIC website is on NSF-funded COVID Rapid Response Research (RAPID) projects. The CIC serves as a resource for researchers, students and decision-makers from academia, government, not-for-profits and industry to identify collaboration opportunities, to leverage each other's research findings, and to accelerate the most promising research to mitigate the broad societal impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Sidebar Research Data Services Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 215 International Affairs 420 W. 118th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: 212-854-6012 E-mail: data@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Research Data Services Links Staff Schedule a Consultation Workshops & Events Consultation Guidelines Twitter Tweets by ColumbiaLibData CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.