Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback The Anne S.K. Brown Military Collection: Miniatures » Return to Collection List Miniature Lead Soldiers During her honeymoon to Europe in 1930, Mrs. Brown purchased a number of lead soldiers from toy shops in Germany, France, and Britain with the intention of setting up a display in one of the rooms of her new house on Benefit Street. The majority of these figures were made by the Britains, Heyde and Mignot companies. Further figures were acquired in the following years, including a number specially commissioned by Mrs. Brown. When the collection came to Brown University in 1981–82, special cases were made to house the collection of more than 5,000 figures. This now forms a permanent display on the third floor of the John Hay Library. The figures are in 96 cases marching from left to right with ancient Egyptians at the front up to Queen Elizabeth II. Additionally, there are porcelain figurines and a collection of miniature soldiers made by Howard Willetts. Collection Links Back to the main page Introduction The Collection Staff Exhibitions Mazansky Sword Collection Other military collections Mrs. John Nicholas Brown Highland pipers made by the John Hill Company, England Among the items commissioned are a large group depicting units of United States Militia in the 1830’s and 1840’s modeled after Huddy and Duval plates in the United States Military Magazine published in Philadelphia between 1839 and 1842. A friend of Mrs. Brown’s, Madame Metayer of Paris, fabricated a fine collection of figures depicting units of Napoleon’s army in addition to making a fine diorama of the landing of Count Rochambeau at Newport in 1781, which is on loan to the Newport Historical Society. Another item made for Mrs. Brown depicts a scene from Napoleon’s retreat from Moscow in 1812, while a group of figures arming a cannon represent the Rhode Island Train of Artillery in 1775. There are coronation coaches and state landaus, a Papal procession, various kings and queens ranging from Henry VIII and his six wives to Queen Elizabeth II in a police uniform. Generals Grant and Lee lead their respective armies, while Roman charioteers whip their horses. A ceramic Chinese funeral party carries a large sarcophagus, while medieval knights made by Courteney of England charge forward. Hospital wagons rumble along, while a British searchlight team scans the skies for enemy plains. Victor Emmanuel II and Mussolini lead their troops and Nazi brownshirts carry banners. There are camel units, elephant batteries, World War One French bicycle troops, tanks and armored cars, and numerous cavalry troops. Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University