Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Locations & Hours Harvard Map Collection Appointments Teach with Us Use Spatial Data Explore Maps About Us Today: 10:30am - 4pm, by appointment only See All Hours Highlights New maps, old maps, and spatial data with expert librarians to help you bring them to life in research and teaching. Teach with maps and data Explore history through maps Get help with geospatial data Dive into curated exhibitions Open to the general public, by appointment only. Full access policy Follow Harvard Map Collection You can find us on Instagram and Twitter Contact Pusey Library Harvard Yard Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions email: maps@harvard.edu Phone number 617-495-2417 Ask a Map Librarian! Find us GitHub View Staff Directory Connect with Harvard Map Collection Less contact information More contact information Appointments To consult with us or use maps or data in person at the Map Collection, please make an appointment. Make an appointment Teach with Us We work with classes every term to incorporate maps and geospatial resources into the curriculum. For each class, we help select maps and data and tailor hands-on activities to your particular course. Classes in the Map Collection have spanned the whole curriculum including Computer Science, History, Earth Sciences, and English. Service Teach with Special Collections Discover, engage, and collaborate with Special Collections to help students use primary sources and understand material culture. Use Spatial Data Our GIS Librarians can help you through all stages of your digital mapping or spatial analysis project. Lend conceptual context and ethics considerations to work that engages with data and mapping technologies. Identify and use the spatial data that will enhance your research and teaching. Design your analysis to get you to the answers you need Select the right software for the project Visualize the results You can find spatial datasets in HOLLIS and the Harvard Geospatial Library. Our map and data tutorials on GitHub can also use you get started. Contact us and we can help you find and use any spatial data. Service Digital Mapping and GIS Support Get help with maps, mapping, geographic information systems, and other geospatial tools, as well as cartographic design. Tool Harvard Geospatial Library Search and download regional and local geographic data and georeferenced scanned paper maps. Explore Maps Searching Much of our material is in HOLLIS but some is still only in the card catalog, which you can view and search in the digitized card catalog. Explore more collections in our online collections and exhibitions. Particular strengths of the collection include: 18th-century maps of North America and Europe in print and manuscript Early modern maps and atlases Pictorial maps 19th- and 20th-century Topographical maps To view materials in our reading room or request copies, place requests in HOLLIS through HOLLIS Special Request. You must then schedule an appointment separately. Most materials can be pulled when you arrive. Materials stored off-site will arrive in 1-2 business days. Tool HOLLIS Special Request Request materials for use onsite in library reading rooms or request copies of library materials. Service Reproductions Need a copy? Request reproductions of library materials for research or publication. Collections Collection Pictorial Maps Collection Pictorial Maps Get lost in the fanciful delights of 20th-century pictorial cartography at the Harvard Map Collection. Digital Collection Scanned Maps Digital Collection Scanned Maps Thousands of the Harvard Map Collection's maps and atlases from around the world are available online in hi-res. Collection Geospatial and Mapping Data Collection Geospatial and Mapping Data The Harvard Map Collection is the main repository for geospatial data at Harvard, including georeferenced scanned maps. Collection Pictorial Maps Collection Pictorial Maps Get lost in the fanciful delights of 20th-century pictorial cartography at the Harvard Map Collection. Digital Collection Scanned Maps Digital Collection Scanned Maps Thousands of the Harvard Map Collection's maps and atlases from around the world are available online in hi-res. Collection Geospatial and Mapping Data Collection Geospatial and Mapping Data The Harvard Map Collection is the main repository for geospatial data at Harvard, including georeferenced scanned maps. Collection Fire Insurance Maps Collection Fire Insurance Maps The Harvard Map Collection's fire insurance maps focus primarily on the New England states. Collection Antiquarian Maps Collection Antiquarian Maps Pre-1900 maps from the Harvard Map Collection. Collection Atlases, Gazetteers, and Reference Materials Collection Atlases, Gazetteers, and Reference Materials The Harvard Map Collection includes both current and historical atlases. Collection Nautical Charts Collection Nautical Charts The Harvard Map Collection's nautical charts range from the 18th to the 21st century. Collection Thematic Maps Collection Thematic Maps The Harvard Map Collection's holdings of thematic maps, which spatially depict a particular theme or idea. Collection Topographic Maps Collection Topographic Maps Harvard Map Collection's maps displaying topographic features. Collection Wall Maps Collection Wall Maps 19th- and 20th-century wall maps from the Harvard Map Collection. Collection Aerial Photography and Remotely Sensed Images Collection Aerial Photography and Remotely Sensed Images The Harvard Map Collection's aerial photography collection focuses primarily on the metro Boston area. Show LessShow More Online Exhibits Virtual: How Mapmakers Used Animals to Document the World Explore how animals helped early European mapmakers understand the expanding world Through Wednesday, Feb 15, 2023 Virtual: Annotating the Landscape Take a closer look at this manuscript map of Bavaria from the 19th century Through Wednesday, Feb 15, 2023 Virtual: The Story of Prester John How Europeans made sense of the world prior to colonial expansion Through Wednesday, Feb 15, 2023 Story Maps by the Harvard Map Collection Building Boston, Shaping Shorelines Mapping the Moon in Black and White A Fine and Fertile Country Building Boston, Shaping Shorelines Mapping the Moon in Black and White A Fine and Fertile Country Look but Don't Touch Annotating the Landscape Cartographic Beasts of North America Manuscript Maps Where Pirates and Cannibals Meet Where Disaster Strikes The Ancestry of the Motherroad Embellishing the Map Top Secret: Decoding a WWII Manuscript Map Lille Under Siege The Harvard Map Collection and the Future of Cartography Farming the American West Wheat, Corn, Cows, and the Origins of American Food Show LessShow More Follow the Map: The Harvard Map Collection at 200 Sea Atlases: A Selection of Atlases from the Harvard Map Collection Going for Baroque: The Iconography of the Ornamental Map Celebrating Our 200th Birthday! 2018 marked 200 years since the original gift that founded the Map Collection. Read more about it in our online catalog for "Follow the Map: The Harvard Map Collection at 200." Explore "Follow the Map!" About Us Our Mission With experts in spatial analysis, map-making, and historical analysis, we want to help you make the most of the over 500,000 maps and terabytes of data at the Harvard Map Collection. Whether you are analyzing the spatial dimensions of health, making a map about demographics, or tracing changing borders on old maps, we want to find ways to support your work and collaborate on innovative research and teaching. We collect maps and geospatial data from all time periods and all places in all languages. We are particularly interested in acquiring maps and objects that document how people have used and continue to use maps, whether it be in maps, cartographers’ drafts and journals, artists’ books, or ephemera. We seek out data that helps answer questions about the natural world and the people in it such as census data, population data, and climate information. Then we help analyze that data and bring out new geospatial insights. Getting Here You can access our space via a flight of stairs down from ground level at the Pusey Library main entrance or through the Lamont Library west entrance. Access without stairways is available through the Lamont Library main entrance via the ramp at the Quincy Street gate. How To Use Harvard Library's Special Collections and Archives Open to all, these unique materials can take you to places you never expected. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.