CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Columbia University Archives Columbia University Archives The University Archives, a unit within the Rare Book & Manuscript Library, preserves the institutional memory of Columbia University through the acquisition of official University records and related historical collections and materials from its founding in 1754 to the present day. Read More » 2021-2022 at the University Archives Reading Room Access: The RBML reading room is open Monday to Friday, 10:00 am to 4:00 pm by advance appointment only to external visitors and current Columbia students, faculty and staff whose individual research requires consulting RBML materials. Reading room seats are limited and appointment slots are frequently filled a month in advance. Bookings are are first-come, first served and we cannot guarantee the availability of preferred dates/times. For more information on booking an appointment, visit our Appointment FAQ page. See the Plan Your Visit Page for additional instructions on planning your visit. We invite all users to access our Digital Collections, request reproductions, or contact us for alternatives to in-person visits. Order Reproductions: Limited reproductions of materials may be requested. See our Orders & Services page for details. Exhibitions: Our exhibition galleries are open to Columbia affiliates and external visitors with confirmed reading room appointments. Online Exhibitions are always available to all. Documenting COVID-19 The University Archives is collecting materials to document the coronavirus pandemic. We are looking to hear from a diverse set of voices about your lived experience and to learn about your new everyday lives. Historians of the future will want to know how we spent our days during these tumultuous times. We invite you to be an active participant in documenting our community’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Please visit our Documenting COVID-19 information page to find out how you can contribute and participate. Columbia University History Online Resources Alma Mater Alumni Registers Booklets, Guides & Campus Viewbooks Coeducation at Columbia Honors & Prizes Media Online Exhibits President Profiles Publications Research Guides Timelines & Histories University Documents Web Archives Archival Search Tools CLIO The Columbia University Libraries online catalogue is a primary tool for locating archival materials. Archival Collections Portal This portal provides access to records of archival collections at Columbia University Libraries, including finding aids, collection descriptions and available digital content, such as online exhibits and images. Oral History Portal Use this portal to explore the collections of the Columbia Center for Oral History (CCOH) Archives at RBML. Research Guides The Columbia University Archives staff has put together some Research Guides to help you take advantage of our holdings. For each type of search, you will find the most popular resources available and how to access them: some online and some in person. The guides focus on alumni, faculty, course descriptions, Master's essays and dissertations, and buildings and grounds information. Online Exhibit Insistent Change: Columbia's Core Curriculum at 100 In 1919 Columbia instituted a course of study known as Contemporary Civilization. It grew out of a War Issues course offered during World War I and was required of every student in order to provide all with a forum to analyze and discuss primary texts relevant to contemporary problems. Proceeding roughly by decade, this exhibition shows how the course transformed and developed over the years. By also focusing on the development of the Core Curriculum as a whole, the exhibition explains how CC's faculty, administrators and students have worked together to keep the course relevant through a succession of crises and changes in the broader political, economic and social realms in the country and the world. This online exhibition is based on a physical exhibition of the same name which was on display in the Rare Book and Manuscript Library in February and March 2020. Sidebar Columbia University Archives Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor Butler Library 535 West 114th St. M.C. 1127 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-3786 E-mail: uarchives@columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Create or Access Your Special Collections Research Account Columbia University Archives About the University Archives Research & Access Use Policies & Services Collection Overview Columbia History Resources University Archives Research Guides Donating Materials Managing University Records Rare Book & Manuscript Library RBML News CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.