Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Wolbach Library Supporting research about the Universe About Contact Resources Initiatives Events Glass Plates FAQ HOME / ABOUT / COLLECTIONS / Special Collections Plate A8766 showing the Small Magellanic Cloud The Wolbach's Special Collections include both archival materials and other specially curated content. Please see our Collections Access Policy for comprehensive information about accessing archival materials. Archival Collections Harvard College Observatory Astronomical Photographic Glass Plate Collection The Wolbach Library administers HCO's Astronomical Photographic Glass Plate Collection located at the Observatory Plate Stacks. The Plate Stacks store over 550,000 direct photo and spectral images, covering both the northern and southern hemispheres. The Glass Plates make up over a century of irreplaceable scientific observations and represent the first full image of the visible Universe. The PHaEDRA Collection PHaEDRA stands for "Preserving Harvard's Early Data and Research in Astronony." The PHaEDRA collection is composed of over 2,500 notebooks produced by Harvard's Women Computers and other astronomers from the early 19th and 20th century. These notebooks represent the evolution of observation methods and astronomy as a science. Williamina Fleming Collection The ink annotations in these glass plates demonstrate the many different types of scientific work and labor performed by women in the Plate Stacks from the late 19th through the early 20th century. They also represent the work of specific women astronomers who have now been recognized for their extensive contributions to our fundamental understanding of how the Universe works. Daguerreotypes The Harvard College Observatory experimented in early photographic techniques used for studying the sky. Wolbach's dagguerreotypes include the earliest extant images of the moon among other gems. You can learn more about Harvard's Daguerreotype collections here. Eclipse Expedition Plates The Harvard College Observatory participated in several eclipse expeditions in the 1800s and early 1900s. Many staff members used these opportunities to experiment with eclipse photography. The Glass Plate Collection is home to several sets of photographic glass plates featuring views of totality, Baily’s beads, and diamond ring effects. Many of these photographs were taken in Shelbyville, Kentucky (1869); Willows, California (1889); Japan (1887); Chile (1893); and Washington, Georgia (1900). Astronomical Institutions (AI) Collection The AI Collection contains historical publications, papers, and objects created by observatories worldwide. Along with the Naval Observatory in Washington, DC, Wolbach holds the most complete collection in the United States; many of these objects are unique. Publications and artifacts representing the history of the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory and the Harvard College Observatory are also held within the AI Collection. Skylab Film Reels An ongoing project to digitize film-captured data taken onboard the Skylab Space Station. Other Special Collections Digital Access to a Sky Century at Harvard (DASCH) An on-going effort to digitize the majority of the Astronomical Photographic Glass Plate Collection's 550,000 glass plate negatives and to produce full photometry results for the entire sky. CfA Newsletters A digitized and searchable online collection of CfA Newsletters, also accessible through the CfA Intranet. SAO NEWS (1961-1973), CenterLine (1974-1981), CfA Almanac (1982-2000) International Astronomy/Astrophysics Thesis Collection a select world wide collection from the 19th century on, cataloged individually and shelved together. The Astronomy Thesis Collection on Zenodo Collection curated by Wolbach Library staff and indexed by the ADS. Harvard Astronomy Department Dissertations Collection These volumes are shelved alphabetically by author. Astronomy Slide Collection [Details about slides] including itemized slide listings. Microfilm Project Items microfilmed as part of a preservation project carried out at Harvard University through a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities. Video Collection Videos available at the Wolbach Library, including CfA Colloquia. Wolbach's Curated Bibliographies CfA Bibliography on ADS: All publications produced by the CfA community. CfA Historical Bibliography: A collection of highlighted resources about the CfA's history. Women in Astronomy Bibliography: A collection of works by and about women in astronomy. About History Staff Directory Hours & Location Collections Special Collections Tours Reproduction Requests Policies and Procedures Blog c19379d01115b16a2fafdc5e745dae97 Harvard Terms of Use | Smithsonian Terms of Use | Acknowledgements| Intranet Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement