CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Directions The C. V. Starr East Asian Library is located in 300 Kent Hall, north of College Walk at Amsterdam Avenue. From College Walk (the pedestrian boulevard corresponding to West 116th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue), go up the stairs in front of Alma Mater to Low Plaza, and then up the stairs from Low Plaza to the east, to the upper campus. Kent Hall will be on your right. When you enter from the upper campus, you will be on the third floor, and the Library entrance will be right in front of you. It is also possible to enter Kent Hall from College Walk, through the Bursar's Office, which is the second floor of Kent. Then you can go through the office to the main building corridor, where you can walk up the staircase on your left, or go further down the hall to the elevator, and go to the third floor. The Library entrance will be right in front of you. Access Information A Columbia University ID or visitor's pass is required for entrance to the Library. You may request a visitor's pass at the Library Information Office (LIO), 201 Butler Library, (212) 854-7309, located immediately to the left of the security desk inside the front door of Butler Library. You will need to present a government-issued photo ID, tell LIO staff you are planning to use Starr Library collections, and estimate the number of days you plan to use the library. LIO staff may then issue a temporary reader's card providing access to Starr Library. CU Alumni and Visitor information Sidebar C.V. Starr East Asian Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 300 Kent Hall 1140 Amsterdam Ave M.C. 3901 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-4318 E-mail: starr@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » C. V. Starr East Asian Library Links About Starr Library Directions Floorplans iPod Library Tours Staff Starr Library Blog Ask a Librarian CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.