Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions 2021-2022 Resources 2021-22 Resources Home Undergraduate Students Graduate Students Faculty and Teaching Assistants Undergraduate Students — Spring 2022 Visiting the Library Princeton University undergraduate students with active NetIDs and card access to University buildings may freely enter Library locations to study or browse the stacks. Effective March 14, 2022, per University policy, face coverings are optional. Some exceptions requiring masks may apply. Food & Drink Policy Reserve Space in the Library The Library offers a variety of reservable study and creation spaces throughout our locations. To reserve a space you will need an active Net ID. If you have questions about reserving any of the spaces, please contact refdesk@princeton.edu. Group Study Rooms Engineering Library Firestone Library Lewis Library Stokes Library Visualization Labs Stokes Viz Hub Fine Viz Lab Private Study Pods Engineering Library Makerspace Lewis Library Accessing Materials Access to print collections Undergraduate students are welcome to request digitization of materials using the “Request pick-up or digitization” button in the catalog record or request a book pick-up. Book pick-up service is available to undergraduate students who are authorized to be on campus and have an active PUID. Access your course reserves Access your course reserves by logging into Canvas and clicking on the “Reserves” menu item. There are physical and digital reserve items available. If a professor indicates in the syllabus that an item is available at the Library, this often means that the item is not on reserve but rather that you can search for the item on the Library catalog. Do research online Library materials available online, such as digitized collections and databases, continue to be accessible. You can use either the EZ Proxy service or the SonicWall Secure Remote Access to connect to the Library. Learn more. You must have an active net ID and password to access electronic Library materials. If you have trouble accessing materials, please report a problem. Use technology Printers and scanners are available at all Library locations. Borrow materials from other libraries It's free to borrow material from other libraries using the Library's Borrow Direct and Interlibrary Loan services. To check the status of a request, please email ilsborr@princeton.edu. Research Assistance Connect with your subject librarian Librarians are available to help you in person or remotely through Zoom for research consultations. Contact your subject librarian to schedule a consultation. Find your personal librarian Every undergraduate student at Princeton is assigned a personal librarian, a friendly library expert who can help guide you through the Library. Get help with writing seminars Each writing seminar is paired with a librarian who assists with research papers. To find yours, visit the Library Resources tab through your Canvas course. Ask Us If you have a question and aren’t sure who to ask, you can chat with us or send us an email. Library Videos: instructional, informational, past events and more Explore Library videos through Media Central As videos containing instructional and informational content as well as past events and presentations are developed by the Library, they are archived and made available through Media Central channels. Circulation & Accounts Return books All fines will continue to be suspended this spring except for reserves and recall items. Please continue to renew your materials as necessary. Books may be returned to a book drop at any library location, regardless of the library in which the book usually resides. If you have a large number of books to return, please email the Circulation Desk at fstcirc@princeton.edu to arrange for an appointment. Likewise, if you will not be returning to campus and need to return books, please email fstcirc@princeton.edu and they will advise you on the procedure. Confirm account is in good standing If, for a leave of absence, you need a letter to verify that your library account is in good standing, please email the Circulation Desk at fstcirc@princeton.edu, who will send you an email as confirmation. Library Happenings Join library events and workshops Browse our Events and Workshops page to view upcoming library webinars, events, and workshops. Stay in touch Subscribe to the PUL e-newsletter to learn more about Library initiatives, resources, and events. Work at the Library Please see the student employment website for available job postings. Learn more about applying for jobs in the Library. Virtually visit Firestone Library Explore the inside of Firestone Library with this video. Enjoy from home The Library provides many subscriptions or collections that students, faculty, and staff can enjoy from the comfort of their own home: New York Times Washington Post Wall Street Journal Rosetta Stone Dixon eBook collection for leisure reading Music or performing arts streaming services First-Year and Transfer Students Checklist New to Princeton University? View our checklist for new undegraduate students. Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top