CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Research Tools Search Tools | Bibliographic Management Tools | Other Tools, Widgets, & Plugins Search Tools Google Scholar retrieves references to books, abstracts, and ejournal articles from selected university and scholarly repositories. Columbia's Google Scholar link above also provides direct links to the full-text article for materials in our holdings. Google Book Search searches the full text of books that Google scans and stores in its digital database. It provides online access to full text of public domain and out-of-copyright books, reproduced either from text provided by publishers or by the libraries. Guide to Installing Columbia University LibX Firefox Plugin Use the LibX toolbar to conveniently search Columbia Library catalogs, electronic books, journals and selected databases. You can also follow embedded visual cues from Google Scholar, Amazon, Wikipedia and The New York Times Book Review. Bibliographic Management Tools Zotero Zotero allows you to collect, organize, cite and share your research sources and enables the download, capture, and indexing of full text from PDFs and websites. The Libraries recommend the use of Zotero due to its open-source pedigree and widespread popularity. Click here for a free download of Zotero. Consult the Quick Start Guide for tips and videos on how to get started using Zotero. Be sure to download a word processor plugin to make the fullest use of this software. The Libraries offer free hands-on workshops on using Zotero. You can find information about dates and times as well as register online to attend one of these sessions on the Libraries Workshops page. Back to top Other Tools & Plugins Proxy Bookmarklet If you often do your research from off-campus, we recommend you install the proxy bookmarklet on your browser's bookmarks toolbar. The bookmarklet lets you log into the proxy without having to browse from the Columbia University Libraries website. Libraries Search Plugins Add our search plugins to Firefox or Internet Explorer to quickly search our website, the Columbia University Directory, CLIO, Google Scholar, and more. Information about Mobile Resources at Columbia University Libraries The Mobile Resources page offers a select list of resources for which mobile versions exist. These resources are mobile browser optimized unless specified by the iPhone or android app icon. Britannica Widgets From Encyclopedia Britannica Webshare, these widgets, which allow you to quickly and easily explore a variety of topics, are pre-created and ready to embed into websites. Oxford English Dictionary (OED) Browser Lookup Tools When you add the OED to your browser using one of the OED Online Lookup Tools, you can highlight a word on any web page, click on the Search OED Online button on your browser toolbar, and the OED Online Find Word search will display the results in your browser window. (Note: JavaScript must be enabled) Back to top Library tools help you customize your library experience, bringing library services to you. What tools do you use? What would you recommend to other library users? Send us your suggestions! For help with one of our widgets or tools, send e-mail to: widget-help@library.columbia.edu. Sidebar Columbia University Libraries Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Map: Libraries Map » Access & Borrowing Links Library Information Office Accessing the Libraries Borrowing & Renewing Materials Library Services Links Request Items Services & Tools Visitors Course Reserves Study Spaces Disability Services Preservation & Digital Conversion Division Libraries Website Search CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.