Off-Campus Access | Library A–Z | Hours & Locations Search: Search BruKnow Library Website WorldCat Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Brown University Library Collections General Circulating Collections Rockefeller Library – humanities, social sciences, fine arts Sciences Library – science and mathematics Orwig Music Library – music materials in all formats Library Collections Annex – storage of lesser-used material for campus delivery Licensed Electronic Resources The Library subscribes to hundreds of online databases and tens of thousands of ejournals, online newspapers, and ebooks. These resources are available to current members of the Brown community from anywhere in the world. Brown authentication is required. See: off-campus access. Special Collections The Library holds more than 250 named collections with rich research potential. These collections are not fully cataloged in BruKnow, but are described in Collections A-Z. Most of the listed collections are located in the John Hay Library. The Library's Center for Digital Scholarship conducts a systematic program to digitize the Library's renowned signature collections. The specialized Government Information and East Asian collections are located in the Rockefeller Library. The Library's Map Collection is located on the 11th floor of the Sciences Library. Help is available. Subject librarians are available to provide assistance in locating and using Library collections. Don't hesitate to ask for their help or make a purchase suggestion. Related Links Collections A-Z Finding library resources Library catalogs New Titles Videos & DVDs Exhibits Subject Librarians Suggest a Purchase Guides to Major Collections Alcohol & Addiction Studies Anne S. K. Brown Military Collection Harris Collection of American Poetry and Plays Manuscript Collections Sheet Music Collections University Archives Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet