Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box » Libraries Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Want to search for books, journals, and articles instead? Exit Search Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving My Account Make a Gift Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving MY ACCOUNT Research Rooms Individual research rooms are available for a term-long loan period to all graduate students with documented research needs. All rooms are checked out at the beginning of each academic term until the end of the academic term. After the 2nd week of the term, any room requests will be for the following academic term. Academic status of the student must be verified by their advisor to qualify for a research room. Students should ask their advisor to send an email to library.spaces@oregonstate.edu. Email from the student will not be accepted. Emails need to include the student's full name and OSU ID number. Doctoral students need to confirm they have scheduled or completed their oral exams; masters students need to confirm they are writing a thesis and will be entering their final 1-2 term. Once you have received an email that a research room is available, the key card may be picked up at the Circulation Desk. Each research room is equipped with a table, chair, shelves and a glass white board. Wireless access is available in all rooms. All research rooms are located on the 6th floor. Policies Circulation of Rooms All rooms will be checked out at the beginning of each term. Key cards need to be picked up within 7 days of email notification, or the patron will forfeit the room. If a patron is unable to pick up the key cards within 7 days but would like to keep the room, please email the Circulation desk to make alternate arrangements. Patrons are responsible for returning the key card to the Circulation desk at the end of their loan period. Patrons on the waiting list who do not get a room during the current term will move to the top of the waiting list for the following term. Minimum Usage Requirements Rooms must be used an average of 2 days per week. Usage will be checked the Monday following the completion of weeks 2, 4, 6, and 8 each academic term. Patronswill be expected to have used the room at least 4 times during each 2 week period. Patrons who have not met the minimum usage requirements when usage is checked will be emailed a warning. Patrons who have not met the minimum usage requirements for a second time during the academic term will forfeit their room and be asked to return their key card. Safety and Maintenance of Rooms The library is not responsible for personal belongings left in a research room. Check out all library materials that will be kept in the room. For your safety, electrical appliances are not allowed in the room. Keep doors clear of any covering or obstruction, including white boards. Please don’t put anything on the wall that creates a hole or leaves residue. Damage charges will apply if necessary. Do not leave public use equipment such as white boards in the room overnight. Feedback We value your feedback about the Grad Commons research rooms. Please share what you think is working well, plus any ideas for improving the physical space or the reservation process and procedures with the Grad Commons graduate assistant at grad.commons@oregonstate.edu. Or, stop by their office in room 6559. OSUL: circulation policy Rooms Available for Reservation Circulation 541-737-7254 valley.circ@oregonstate.edu Contact Info 121 The Valley Library Corvallis OR 97331–4501 541-737-3331 Contact Us Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Flickr Twitter Instagram In The Valley Library Oregon State University Press Special Collections and Archives Research Center Undergrad Research & Writing Studio Graduate Student Commons Tutoring Services Student Multimedia Studio Northwest Art Collection Child Care Digital Projects Oregon Explorer Oregon Digital ScholarsArchive@OSU Digital Publishing Initiatives Atlas of the Pacific Northwest Branches Marilyn Potts Guin Library Cascades Campus Library McDowell Library of Vet Medicine Federal Depository Library Program Make a Gift