My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) Libraries & Affiliates Mathematics Library Directions Directions to the Mathematics Library On the east side of Broadway, at the stoplight one block north of 116th Street, are stairs leading onto the Columbia campus. Go up these stairs and bear left. On the left is the Mathematics building. Inside the Mathematics building, go up the small flight of stairs. Just to the left of the elevator is the library entrance. IMPORTANT: There is no wheelchair access to the library. From College Walk (the pedestrian boulevard corresponding to West 116th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue), go up the left (west) side steps of Low Plaza, which is the large open space in front of the domed Low Library Building. Continue on the walkway that runs along the left side of the Low Library Building, continue past Earl Hall and on the left is the Mathematics Building. Inside the Mathematics building, go up the small flight of stairs. Just to the left of the elevator is the library entrance. IMPORTANT: There is no wheelchair access to the library. Note: The library is open to Columbia affiliates only. Those without a valid Columbia I.D. should first visit the Library Information Office (LIO), for information on library access and privileges. Mathematics Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » 303 Mathematics 2990 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-4712 E-mail: math@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » | Directions » Research Guides Mathematics & Statistics Research Guide Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian