Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box » Libraries Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Want to search for books, journals, and articles instead? Exit Search Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving My Account Make a Gift Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving MY ACCOUNT Digital Publishing Initiatives Digital Publishing Initiatives at OSU is all about bringing cutting edge research and writing to wider audiences. We use a variety of digital publishing tools to make this happen. We also consult with authors looking to start academic journals, publish open access books, or create online exhibits of their work. Digital Projects Books Journals Services Digital Projects Bernice Forest bernice.png This project presents text and images from the diary of Marion Bernice Forest, who attended Oregon Agricultural College (OAC) from 1914-1918. Untold Stories untold_stories.png Untold Stories: Histories of students of Color at Oregon State University Campus Tour Guidebook documents the impact and contributions that students of color have had on campus. Researched and written by OSU students. Malamud at Oregon State malamud.png A collection of student-created digital humanities projects dedicated to the life and writings of Bernard Malumud. OSU Photohistory photohistory2.png A Photographic History of Oregon State University showcases a selection of photographs of OSU's 150 years as a land grant institution. This digital site supplements the over 500 images in A School for the People: A Photographic History of Oregon State University (OSU Press, 2015). Embracing a Western Identity + The Jewish Oregon Story embracing_a_western_identity.png This site offers a visual tour of two volumes by Ellen Eisenberg published by Oregon State University Press in cooperation with Oregon Jewish Museum and Center for Holocaust Education (OJMCHE). Books Reading the Pacific Northwest reading_pnw.png Reading the Pacific Northwest reprints rare and out-of-print titles from OSU Press and OSU Libraries Special Collections, making this content available to readers online and in low-cost, print-on-demand formats. NEH Humanities Open Book Program calyx.png Funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities Open Book Program, Oregon State University Libraries and CALYX Press are partnering to digitize important literary works from the second and third waves of the feminist movement. Journals Forest Phytophthoras forest_phyto.png Forest Phytophthoras provides science-based information to aid in the understanding and management of the world’s forest Phytophthora species. While newly emerging, damaging species are the highest priority, information on other Phytophthoras is included in an attempt to gradually elucidate Phytophthoras’ diverse roles in terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. Journal of Student Affairs Inquiry student_affairs.png The Journal of Student Affairs Inquiry is an online, peer-reviewed publication for inquiry (i.e., assessment, evaluation, and research) in student affairs. This journal provides a scholarly space for addressing practice and theory in student affairs inquiry by highlighting both the universal (e.g., foundations of student affairs assessment) and the local (e.g., single-institution assessment projects). Services Conference Proceedings We preserve conference proceedings in our institutional repository. Contact: Michael Boock (Michael.Boock@oregonstate.edu) Consultation for Your Own Project or Ideas If you’re interested in pursuing your own project with us, or have questions about digital publishing at OSU, we offer consultation services. Contact: Margaret Mellinger (Margaret.Mellinger@oregonstate.edu) Course Integrated Instruction Contact us to discuss how to successfully integrate digital publishing assignments and projects into your course. We also how to successfully integrate digital publishing assignments and projects into your course. We also provide instructional materials and hands-on instruction. Contact: Jane Nichols (Jane.Nichols@oregonstate.edu) services_icon.png Identifiers We provide support for assigning and managing identifiers (DOI, ISSN, ISBN, URI, ORCID) for publications, research data, and other digital objects. Contact: Michael Boock (Michael.Boock@oregonstate.edu) Journal Startup or Conversion Interested in starting a new journal or converting a current journal to a new open access platform? We can help! Contact: Cara Key (Cara.Key@oregonstate.edu) Contact Info 121 The Valley Library Corvallis OR 97331–4501 541-737-3331 Contact Us Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Flickr Twitter Instagram In The Valley Library Oregon State University Press Special Collections and Archives Research Center Undergrad Research & Writing Studio Graduate Student Commons Tutoring Services Student Multimedia Studio Northwest Art Collection Child Care Digital Projects Oregon Explorer Oregon Digital ScholarsArchive@OSU Digital Publishing Initiatives Atlas of the Pacific Northwest Branches Marilyn Potts Guin Library Cascades Campus Library McDowell Library of Vet Medicine Federal Depository Library Program Make a Gift