Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Course Reserves Skip to Main Content Section Menu Library Access Home Faculty/Professional Staff Students University Staff University Affiliates Alumni Visitors Circulation Policies Course Reserves Reserve Guidelines for Faculty How to Submit a Course Reserves Request Loan Periods for Reserves Faculty The Library's Course Reserves Service allows instructors to set aside books, films, or sound recordings for class use, or make articles or book excerpts electronically available through Canvas. Reserve lists typically include required and recommended reading for Princeton courses. Firestone and most PUL branches provide course reserves services; see guidelines on placing reserves requests. Students Access your instructor's physical course reserve list as well as the electronic reserve readings by using the buttons to the right. Physical items placed on reserve at any of the PUL locations circulate for a much shorter period of time and incur heavier fines if returned late. Materials available through the e-reserves system are password protected and are to be used only by enrolled students in connection with the course for which the materials have been assigned. These materials must not be copied or distributed for other purposes except as permitted under copyright law. For more information, see the copyright page. Submit Requests For Faculty Submit a Course Reserve Request For Students Find a Reserve Item Find Electronic Reserves Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top