My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) Services & Tools Request Items & Services Scan & Deliver Electronic Document Delivery Service Scan & Deliver Electronic Document Delivery Service The purpose of this service is to provide electronically delivered scans of small portions of Columbia's general collections for private study, research, teaching or scholarship. Please review full terms of service before placing a request. Go to Terms of Service Scan & Deliver enables Morningside/Barnard/UTS/Lamont/CUMC/Law School faculty, students, staff and Provost-Appointed Visiting Scholars with library borrowing privileges to request scans of small portions of a work for the purpose of private study, research, teaching or scholarship. Requests are delivered via your ILL account in 3-5 business days. First time users will need to create an ILL account. How to Place a Scan & Deliver Request Search CLIO, the Columbia Libraries catalog, to locate the book or journal from which you need a scan Click on the "Scan" link under Request (Please note: not all material is eligible for Scan & Deliver) Log into your Interlibrary Loan (ILL) account Include as much citation information as possible Read and affirm the copyright acknowledgment Submit the request, please archive the confirmation email for reference as needed Delivery (Turnaround Time) Requested items will be delivered electronically within 3-5 business days You will receive an email notifying you when the item is available. To retrieve your item: Log in to your ILL account Select "Electronically Received Articles" under the View menu Scans will be available via your ILL account for 30 days. Frequently Asked Questions Q: How many articles/chapters can I request from a book/journal? A: The Terms of Service allow only a small portion of a work to be scanned, such as a chapter or article. Requests for entire works will be cancelled. Q: How many requests can I make a day? A: There is no limit on the number of requests you can make. Depending on staffing and request volume, the Scan & Deliver service reserves the right to process one request per person per day. Q: How long will it take to get the item delivered to me? A: The requested item will be delivered to your ILL account within 3-5 business days. There is no rush service. Q: Can I request delivery of an entire journal volume or book to another library or to my office on the Morningside campus? A: No, the Scan & Deliver service is only for scans of small portions of a work. Q: Can I make a Scan & Deliver request for a book chapter or journal article from books and journals shelved Offsite? A: You can place an "Electronic" scan request by clicking the "Scan" link from the CLIO record for the book or journal and filling in the citation. For more information, please see Offsite Library Shelving Facility (ReCAP). Q: I have a question that isn't answered above. A: Contact Scan & Deliver staff with any questions: scananddeliver@library.columbia.edu or (212) 854-7611. Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Ask a Librarian Course Reserves Digital Scholarship Research Data Services Study Spaces Library Information Office Preservation & Digital Conversion Division Request Items & Services Other Library Catalogs Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ) Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian