Skip to main content Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Menu Main navigation Explore Resources Knowledge Base Insights Programs Archives & Special Collections Secondary navigation About Us Ask a Question COVID-19 Update Search for: Breadcrumb Home Knowledge Base How to Use the Website There are four ways to use the Health Sciences Library (HSL) website to locate information: Search the website Browse the resources Get online help and advice Contact the HSL staff Search the website Type your query into the search bar at the top of the library website. The “Search Results” page consists of three sections: Website Results. Website results shows resources from the Library's curated selection of databases, ebooks, and journals. It also includes descriptions of Library programs and events, how-to articles and tutorials, and general information about the Library. PubMed Results. PubMed is a database of references and abstracts on life sciences and biomedical topics. The first 5 search results from PubMed are displayed. To see the complete list of search results in PubMed, use the “More PubMed results” link located at the bottom of this section. CLIO Results. CLIO is the online catalog for the Columbia, Barnard and Union Theological Seminary libraries. The first 5 search results from CLIO are displayed. To see the complete list of search results in CLIO, use the “More CLIO results” link located at the bottom of this section. Browse the resources If you would like to browse the Library's curated collection of medical sciences resources – including bibliographic databases, journals, and ebooks – the main menu provides the following options: Explore Resources organizes the HSL website into categories that can help you identify the types of resources available. You can also explore resources by activity or by medical subject. Archives and Special Collections provides access to historical databases and content. Get online help and advice The library provides guidance for users in getting the most out of the website resources. Knowledge Base Articles are available to help you understand how to use the available resources. Insights are suggestions and advice written by the HSL staff to help you get the most out of the available resources. Tutorials are a curated selection of helpful documents, videos, and interactive tools to help you learn about specific resources and tasks Contact the HSL staff Still need help locating a resource? Use the “Ask a Question” link. This will take you to our contact form where you can describe your needs and send your request to our staff. Was this article helpful? Yes No What made the article not helpful? It's confusing It's inaccurate It's too long It was too hard to find Other What can we do better? Your Email (optional) Leave this field blank Last Revision: Oct 25, 2021 Activities: Information Seeking Related Content Get Articles and Books Knowledge Base Articles Explore Resources Basic page Solutions to common problems in online access to journal articles Knowledge Base Articles Accessing UpToDate from off-campus Knowledge Base Articles Explore Further History of Science, Technology, and Medicine Databases Nexis Uni Databases STAT Plus, STAT+ Databases Read by QxMD Tools CLIO Databases Back to top Advancing meaningful engagement with information Contact Us Service Desk: (212) 305-3605 Interlibrary Loan: (212) 305-3605 Archives & Special Collections: (212) 305-7931 Send us an email Connect on Twitter (@CUIMClibrary) Visit Us Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Hammer Health Sciences Building, Lobby Level Columbia University Irving Medical Center 701 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 About Us Location and Hours Library Spaces Library Staff Library Accounts Library Policies Computing Resources Recommend A Library Purchase Columbia University Irving Medical Center © 2021 Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Manage Web Cookie Preference