Skip to main content University Archives Spectator Home Navigation menu Home Search Browse by Date Most Popular Acknowledgements Behind the Scenes Help Home Search Browse by Date Most Popular Acknowledgements Behind the Scenes ... Acknowledgements Behind the Scenes Help Columbia Spectator Search the Archive (1877-2015) Search Browse by date Browse by date Contacts If you are interested in republishing Spectator content, please contact our staff at: usagerights@specpublishing.com. If you have comments or questions about the archive, contact Spectator's editors at: info@columbiaspectator.com. Send any problem reports to: ldpd-help@libraries.cul.columbia.edu. The original printed copies of the Columbia Spectator are housed in Columbia University Archives. Featured Issue Columbia Spectator 19 February 1916 About the Columbia Spectator Archive Welcome to the Archive of the Columbia Daily Spectator, the newspaper of Columbia University and Morningside Heights and the second-oldest college daily paper in the country. The Archive spans the run of the newspaper from 1877 to 2015. Additional increments of recent printed issues (2016 and onwards) will be periodically digitized and added to the Archive in coming years. Currently available content may be viewed via the Browse By Date page. For articles published more recently than 2015, please visit the main Spectator website. Whenever possible pages have been scanned from original paper copies and digitized using state-of-the-art technology that provides full-page, searchable reproductions of articles, photographs, and advertisements. The goals of the Archive are to provide a public resource for Columbia University history and to preserve the Spectator's past work. It is the result of a partnership between the Spectator and Columbia University Libraries, and funded jointly by the Libraries and through generous gifts from Spectator alumni and friends, especially members of the class of 1958. (See also the Acknowledgements page.) © 2022 Spectator Publishing Company. All rights reserved. Powered by Veridian Privacy policy Terms of use Manifest Alert × Help × Privacy policy × Terms of use × Edit ×