Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Contact ILSBorr@princeton.edu 609.258.3272 Interlibrary Loan (ILL) provides academic materials not available at the University. Service is available to any member of the University community who needs material for an academic research project or course-related assignment. Those eligible for the service include: Faculty Currently enrolled students Staff Spouses and domestic partners of individuals in the above categories Guest borrowers (i.e., those who have purchased borrowing privileges at the Princeton University Library) do not have interlibrary loan privileges. Please request items through your corporate or public library. Faculty and students of the Institute for Advanced Study and the Princeton Theological Seminary should use the interlibrary borrowing service at their respective institutions. If you have questions about your eligibility, please contact Resource Sharing - Interlibrary Services at 609-258-3272 or ilsborr@princeton.edu. If you've forgotten your password please try resetting it. Please consult our Frequently Asked Questions page. Other libraries, please consult our Lending Services and Fees page. Access Interlibrary Loan Username Password First-Time User? Princeton NetID Holders sign in with your ID and Password in the form above Non Princeton NetID Holders use: Register Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top