Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search MUSEUM OF COMPARATIVE ZOOLOGY | HARVARD.EDU HOME Services Circulation Reference Interlibrary Loans Special Collections and Archives Other Services Scholarly Resources Digital Resources E-journals MCZ Reading List New Books New Books Gallery Latest Journals Digital Collections Online Special Collections Burkhardt Collection Burkhardt Scientific Drawings Thayer Expedition Papers Thomas Barbour Travel Images Alexander Agassiz's Expedition and other images Contributions to the BHL Flickr Gallery William Brewster Papers About the Library Directions to the Library Library Mission Collaborations Library Staff History of the Library The Library Turns 150! Ernst Mayr Biography MCB Library Exchange Program EML Blog HOME / EML BLOG / Andrew Garrett and the MCZ July 30, 2020 By Robert Young, Special Collections Librarian On 29 January 1855, Andrew Garrett, a thirty-one-year-old self-trained naturalist living in Hilo, Hawaii, wrote a letter to Louis Agassiz-- who was soliciting contributions of zoological specimens for Harvard-- which begins, Sir, My hearing, in this remote part of the globe, of your love of the Natural Sciences, particularly Ichthyology, has induced me to send you these rude drawings of some of the fishes that are found about our group of islands. If they will be of any service to you, I will continue to make sketches of every kind that are found in the neighboring sea and forward them on to you. So that in the event of your observing any new species, or, such as you would like specimens of, you can enform me and I will send them to you in some of the home-ward bound Whale-Ships.1 Andrew Garrett fish drawing in the MCZ Archives, Ernst Mayr Library Special Collections Garrett proposed to send specimens of any kind in exchange for either specimens of shells (his foremost interest) or copies of books such as Augustus A. Gould’s malacological works and David Storer’s Fishes of Massachusetts (1839). A year and a half later, in September 1856, Garrett received a reply, with James M. Barnard, a shell-collecting Boston businessman and patron of Agassiz’s, writing on the professor’s behalf that Garrett was welcome to become a zoological collector for Harvard. Garrett would receive $400 annually from Barnard, covering his living and collecting expenses, most of which went toward travel and the hiring of assistants. Agassiz was happy with Garrett’s work, praising his drawings and descriptions in a letter to Barnard written circa autumn 1857, “They will be invaluable material to clear up the Natural History of the Pacific Ocean but I would warn [Garrett] not to be hasty in publishing them.”2 More important were the specimens received, with Agassiz again acknowledging his agent in Hawaii in the MCZ annual report for 1861, “The total number of specimens of Fishes received, amounts to five thousand, comprising one thousand different species, the most important of which are those from the Kings Mills and the Society Islands, collected by Mr. Garret[t]. . . .” Garrett’s work on behalf of the MCZ ended in about 1863, when complications partly caused by the Civil War ended James Barnard’s payments to him. Garrett would go on to collect for the Godeffroy Museum, which published his most important work--the magnificent fish drawings in Fische der Südsee (Hamburg, 1873-1910), edited by Albert C.L.G. Günther. 1Letter in the MCZ Archives. 2Letter in the Andrew Garrett collection of the Bishop Museum Library, Honolulu, quoted in W. Stephen Thomas, “A Biography of Andrew Garrett, Early Naturalist of Polynesia,” The Nautilus, v. 93 (1) (January 10, 1979), p. 19. Andrew Garrett mollusk drawings and specimen descriptions in the MCZ Archives, Ernst Mayr Library Special Collections See also: Agassiz, Andrew Garrett, MCZ, Special Collections & Archives View the discussion thread. James Henry Blake (1845-1941) Andrew Garrett and the MCZ Celebrating Robert Gilbert Happy Earth Day! MCZ Image Tagging Event April 21-24, 2020 Remote Library Resources: Tips from the Ernst Mayr Library Staff Transcribe William Brewster's Journals and Diaries BHL at Biodiversity_Next by Grace Costantino Pop-up exhibit Friday, October 25, 2019, 2:00-4:30pm! BHL at the 2019 Society for the Preservation of Natural History Collections (SPNHC) and Digital Data in Biodiversity Meetings Ernst Mayr Library News Volunteer transcribers delve into Mayr Library field notes BHL at the GBIF 25th Governing Board Annual Meeting Search Filter by subject #BHLNDSR (7) Agassiz (10) Alexander Agassiz (2) Andrew Garrett (1) Biodiversity Heritage Library (44) EOL (4) Ernst Mayr Library (48) Exhibits (10) Graduate Students (3) Hassler (7) Hubert Lyman Clark (1) Jacques Burkhardt (2) James H. Blake (7) Librarian Travels (16) MCZ (22) NDSR (4) New Books (2) OEB (2) Ruth Dixon Turner (1) Special Collections & Archives (18) Staff Achievements (4) TDWG (1) William Brewster (23) Blog posts by month September 2020 (1) July 2020 (1) June 2020 (1) April 2020 (1) March 2020 (2) 1 of 14 » subscribe to the EML blog feed Subscribe https://library.mcz.harvard.edu/feed/blog Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement