CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Documenting COVID-19 at Columbia The University Archives is collecting materials to document the coronavirus pandemic. The University’s official response is being recorded by saving communications, emails, websites and other documents. In addition to these materials, we are inviting faculty, students, alumni, librarians and staff of the university to help us document this crisis. We would like to hear how the Columbia community is experiencing and reflecting on these tumultuous times. We are looking for a diverse set of voices, hearing about your lived experience, and learning about your new everyday lives. Historians of the future will want to know how we spent our days. Here is how you can contribute to these efforts: Questionnaire: From April to August 2020, we invited CU community members to be active participants in documenting our community’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic by completing the Columbia University Archives COVID-19 Experience Questionnaire. Anonymous answers from this questionnaire will become part of a new Columbia University COVID-19 Collection in the University Archives. These responses are part of the first draft of history for future generations of Columbians looking back on this event and will help them understand what this challenging time was like. Websites: The University Archives is currently archiving a number of Columbia websites with COVID-19 information and resources. If you would like to nominate additional Columbia sites that we should be archiving, please contact us at uarchives@columbia.edu. Oral History: You can also participate in the Columbia Center for Oral History Research NYC COVID-19 Oral History, Narrative and Memory Archive. Concentrating on New York City, this study uses surveys, interviews, and written testimonials to create a contemporaneous record of the city’s battle with COVID-19 across the epidemic curve. Donating Materials: If you have personal or student group materials you would like considered for the University Archives collections, please see our guidelines for donating Student Life materials and then contact uarchives@columbia.edu with specific details about your possible donation. CUIMC and NYP Hospital colleagues: The Archives & Special Collections at the Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library invites students, faculty, staff, and alumni of the Columbia University Irving Medical Center and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital to share your own stories of life in the pandemic through donations of personal reminiscences, diaries, blogs, websites, photos, and videos. Materials may be submitted through this linked form which will also give you information on copyright and privacy. Please feel free to contact hslarchives@columbia.edu if you have any questions. Share Your Story: In support of our documentation efforts, Columbia University Human Resouces (CUHR) invited all employees to contribute a story about their COVID-19 experience via their website. See stories submitted by faculty and staff about their personal experiences, view images of home working environments, and read shout outs of praise to Columbia’s frontline essential workers on the Columbia Together website. For the latest Columbia COVID-19 updates and available resources, please consult the following sites: COVID-19 Resource Guide for the Columbia Community Check out the Library Status Updates for the latest in library services COVID-19: Columbia Student Resources, Activities and Opportunities ColumbiaTogether from Human Resources COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Information for Faculty and Staff Learn about the Librarians' Covid Maker Response (CMR). This was a coalition that assembled, manufactured, and distributed 3D-printed PPE (personal protective equipment) to healthcare workers on the front lines in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Sidebar Columbia University Archives Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor Butler Library 535 West 114th St. M.C. 1127 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-3786 E-mail: uarchives@columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Create or Access Your Special Collections Research Account Columbia University Archives About the University Archives Research & Access Use Policies & Services Collection Overview Columbia History Resources University Archives Research Guides Donating Materials Managing University Records Rare Book & Manuscript Library RBML News CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.