Clemson University A-Z Index Phonebook MENUMENU Find & Borrow Find Books, Articles & More Databases Journals Course Reserves Research & Course Guides WorldCat Borrow Technology Interlibrary Loan PASCAL Delivers Scan and Deliver Off-Campus Delivery Service Explore - State Park Passes Borrowing Privileges Unique collections Gunnin Architecture Library Digital Collections Education Media Center & Digital Media Learning Lab Special Collections and Archives TigerPrints Help Finding Library Materials Borrowing Help Offsite Shelving Circulation Policies Library Fines and Fees Proxy Card Service Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Research & Teaching Research Support Research & Course Guides Citation Management Subject Librarians Undergraduate Research Award Teaching Support Course Instruction Workshops Tutorials Course Reserves Open Educational Resources (OER) Digital Scholarship & Publishing Data Services Digital Projects Support Publishing & Copyright Clemson University Press Help Getting Started with Research Proxy Card Service Purchase Request Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Study & Create Study Spaces Library Locations Learning Commons Creative Spaces Adobe Digital Studio Brown Digital Lab Cooper Makerspace Digital Media Learning Lab Geospatial Center Scholars’ Lab Amenities Starbucks - Cooper Library POD - Cooper Library Reflection Room Help Find Printers & Scanners Academic Success Center CCIT Support Center Michelin Career Center Writing Lab Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions About Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Locations & Parking Floor Maps Our Organization Welcome from the Dean News Staff Directory Policies Accessibility Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Library Residents Program Strategic Plan Organizational Chart Libraries Reorganization Overview Cooper 2.0: A Vision for the Future Employment Opportunities Clemson Libraries Advisory Committee Library Depot Giving Giving Home Honor with Books Fund Friends of the Libraries Help Contact Us Records Management Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Make a Suggestion R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU My Account Giving Help Adobe Digital Studio MENUMENU Training & Support About Adobe Digital Studio The Adobe Digital Studio is a creative environment on the fifth floor of Cooper Library, dedicated to providing Clemson with digital media resources and support. The Studio is part of a creative ecosystem, partnered with the Clemson Makerspace, Digital Media Learning Labs, Data Visualization Lab, and Clemson Center for Geospatial Technologies to offer a broad range of creative tools. During Summer 2022, the Adobe Digital Studio is open Monday – Friday, 10 a.m. – 3 p.m. Support The Studio is staffed with expert interns, who are available to provide one-on-one assistance on digital projects in-person or via email. We can help you with any research, academic, or personal project. Stop by the Studio during open hours to talk to an intern in person or use this form to request a virtual technology consultation. We will respond by email to your consultation request, usually within one business day. Studios & Equipment The Studio houses a video studio and an audio studio, which contain high-end hardware and software to enable creative projects. Additionally, a range of digital media equipment is available for loan from the Library Services Desk. The Studio also has collaborative workstations and flexible furniture for group projects. Reserve the studios using our reservation calendar. Workshops The Adobe Digital Studio frequently hosts educational and creative events that are open to the Clemson community. Upcoming events are listed in the sidebar and in the university calendar. Teaching The Creative Technologies Librarian, Kelsey Sheaffer, teaches classes and workshops on a variety of topics, ranging from video production to podcasting to poster design. To schedule a tutorial for your class or group or to set up a consultation, contact Kelsey Sheaffer (ksheaff@nullclemson.edu). Upcoming Events We are working hard to plan upcoming events and workshops. Please check back for updates. Clemson University Libraries 116 Sigma Drive, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3027 Directory Employment Contact Us