Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Friends of the Princeton University Library The Friends of the Princeton University Library play a vital role in supporting the acquisitions and operations of the Library, while enjoying regular programs and unique opportunities to participate in special events. The Friends welcome all members of the community who have an interest in books, libraries, manuscripts, and the graphic arts. Stay up to date on the activities of the Friends on their website https://fpul.princeton.edu. Join Online. Membership includes three issues of The Princeton University Library Chronicle, the Friends’ newsletter, and invitations to special lectures, events, trips, and exhibition openings. Contact: libraryf@princeton.edu or 609-258-3155. Princeton students, faculty, and staff are also invited to join the Friends. Student members receive access to Friends activities and are invited to events specifically designed for them by the Student Friends of the Library. Student memberships are free of charge. The Friends of the Princeton University Library (PUL) also fund the Special Collections Grants Program, which offers researchers from around the world access to PUL’s unique and rare collections by providing grants of up to $4,000 for short-term projects (between two and four weeks). Research projects are focused on scholarly use of archives, manuscripts, rare books, and other rare and unique holdings of PUL. For more information, see Library Research Grants. Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top