Off-Campus Access | Library A–Z | Hours & Locations Search: Search BruKnow Library Website WorldCat Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Brown University Library Collections Africana Collections Select a different subject group Africana Alcohol and Addiction Studies American Culture and Society Art and Architecture Asian Studies Author Collections Book Arts Brown University Archives & History Business Children's Literature Disability Studies Early Printed Books Economics Education European Studies Fine and Decorative Arts Gender and Sexuality Studies Graphic Arts History (Non-United States) History (United States) History of Medicine History of Science, Mathematics, Technology Iberia, Latin America, and Latino Indigenous Studies Language & Literature, Non-Western LGBTQ Literature (Non-United States) Literature (United States) Magic and Occult Manuscript Collections Middle Eastern Studies Military History and Iconography Museum Objects Collections Performing Arts Political Science Printing and Publishing History Race and Ethnicity Religion Rhode Island/Local Interest Russia and Eastern Europe Science Fiction and Fantasy South Asia Women Return to Collections A to Z Index Adams (George James) George James Adams (1812-1888) had a long career as a textile manufacturer and agent in Rhode Island. He was the treasurer of the Greenwich Print Works (1856-1882); a business associate at the Arkwright Cotton Mills (Fiskeville, R.I., circa 1836); an employee at Adams Print Works (Fiskeville, R.I.), Kent Print Works (East Greenwich, R.I.), Orion Cotton Mills (Providence, R.I., circa 1860s-1870s), Bristol Print Works (R.I.), and Clyde Bleaching and Print Works; a part owner of the Rhode Island Bleach and Dye Works, Adams and Butterworth (Providence, R.I., 1862-1882); and the chief agent at Narragansett Print Works (East Greenwich, R.I., 1848-1854). The collection includes family letters and business correspondence (mostly letters to Adams), invoices and receipts, inventories, payroll and supply lists, deeds and contracts, and photographs. A large number of letters are from Thomas P. Richmond, a banker of Bristol, Rhode Island, probably affiliated with the Bank of Bristol. They communicate Richmond’s strong abolitionist feelings and include descriptions of slave uprisings such as the insurrection on the ship La Amistad in 1839, meetings of abolitionist societies, etc. Also discussed are Richmond’s other interests, including phrenology, electricity, epidemiology, mesmerism, animal magnetism, and ships. Another large part of the collection comes from Adams’ time as chief agent at the Narragansett Print Works. This material includes correspondence with textile dealers and related business agents, mostly from Rhode Island, Hartford, Boston, New York, and Philadelphia. Invoices, receipts, as well as accounts for advertising, raw materials, and shipping, are also included. The collection also contains documents related to other businesses, mostly in textiles, run by Adams throughout Rhode Island. The remainder of the collection relates to the extended Adams family, including George Harvey Adams, Mary Hodges Adams, Sarah Martindale Adams, George William Brown, and others. This material includes correspondence as well as legal documents, bills and receipts, inventories of estates, financial documents, correspondence, and photographs. ...more information Africana Studies / Rites and Reason Theatre The dates for the Africana Studies / Rites and Reason Theatre collection ranges from 1970 to 2006. This collection consists of nine series which focus on the growth and development of not only the Department of Africana Studies, but on the growth of the Rites and Reason Theatre. ...more information Anne S.K. Brown Military The Anne S. K. Brown Military Collection is the foremost American collection of material devoted to the history and iconography of soldiers and soldiering, and is one of the world's largest collections devoted to the study of military and naval uniforms. It was formed over a period of forty years by the late Mrs. John Nicholas Brown (1906-1985) of Providence and is still growing. It contains approximately 12,000 printed books, 18,000 albums, sketchbooks, scrapbooks and portfolios, (containing thousands of prints and drawings), and over 13,000 individual prints, drawings and water-colors as well as a collection of 5,000 miniature lead soldiers. Formerly in the Brown family residence (the Nightingale-Brown House, 1791), the entire collection (which was probably the largest private military collection in the world), was presented to Brown University and transferred to Special Collections located in the John Hay Library in 1982. ...more information Chapman (Abraham) Professor of English at University of Wisconsin, Abraham Chapman (1915-1976) published several books on ethnic and minority literature in the United States. This collection includes his research materials from his work on ethnic literature in the United States. ...more information Leyninger (Jacques) These are the papers of Jacques Leyninger who served in the 4th Compagnie Saharienne Portée d'Infanterie Marine for France during 1947-1963. He was stationed in Morocco (1947-1949), Vietnam (1950-1952), and North Africa (1952-1963). It consists primarily of the letters written by him to his parents during 1947-1980. It also contains documentation of his military service, maps of countries in North Africa where he was stationed, photographs and photograph albums, and the insignia and medals for his uniform. ...more information Moore (Robin) These are the personal papers and manuscripts of American writer Robert Lowell "Robin" Moore, Jr. best known for his books "The Green Berets", "The French Connection: A True Account of Cops, Narcotics, and International Conspiracy", and "The Happy Hooker: My Own Story." He also kept a detailed diary of his trip to Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) during April 1979 and about which he later wrote articles and essays. His papers include correspondence, diaries, manuscripts for published and unpublished works, photographs, audio recordings, films, and documents relating to his lawsuit against Jonathan Keith "Jack" Idema. ...more information Portuguese Africa This collection is comprised of Portuguese language manuscript materials documenting the settlement and colonization of Angola (1690-1790 and 1828-1941), and includes correspondence between the Bank of Lisbon and the Azores from 1930-1931 and documents from the Cape Verde Islands in the first half of the 19th century. Topics covered by the materials in the collection include governance and administration, population, public education, finances, history, agriculture, navigation and commerce, military affairs and related topics. ...more information Reynolds Family Correspondence Collection consists almost entirely of personal letters written by Alfred C., Charles E., and James W. Reynolds to sisters and parents detailing Civil War experiences in the 128th Regiment, New York Volunteers and the 11th Light Artillery Regiment, New York. Of particular interest are accounts of the capture of Fort Morgan (1864, Aug.-Sept.), reflections on the Copperheads, Afro-American troops, General Lee, and slavery. ...more information Swearer, Howard Robert Consists of subject files dating from 1976 to 1990, most of which were created while Howard Robert Swearer was President of Brown University. Subjects documented in the collection include alumni and alumnae; athletics; admissions; the Bio-Med program; the Corporation; commencements; physical planning; faculty; libraries; students; the cooperative program between Brown University and Tougaloo College; and gifts to the University. Civil rights and minority affairs on the Brown University campus, including issues about status of women; Afro-American studies; Asian-American students; Hispanic American students; the American Civil Liberties Union; sexual harassment; and discrimination are documented. Student topics documented include the university radio station, WBRU; issues pertaining to Iranian students (ca.1978-1980); campus organizations; and protests about Central Intelligence Agency recruiting on campus. There are files on Richard Salomon, Thomas J. Watson, and Baruch Korff. ...more information Thayer (Eli) This collection of correspondence, essays, articles, and newspaper clippings has as its chief focal point the Kansas conflict in the 1850's. The New England Emigrant Aid Company and similar organizations undertook to send settlers to Kansas from the North East to counteract the influence of the South in determining the free vs. slave status of Kansas on its becoming a state. The influx of immigrants to Kansas profoundly affected the indigenous populations living there. The materials provide insight into how the settlers did not give any thought to those populations. The Kansas theme runs throughout the collection in contemporary materials as well as in reminiscences and historical narratives written some thirty to fifty years subsequently. Other places important to the collection are West Virginia, Massachusetts, and New York. ...more information Wall (Cheryl A.) This collection consists of the personal and professional papers of Cheryl A. Wall, Board of Governors Zora Neale Hurston Professor of English at Rutgers University and scholar of African American and African diaspora literature, the Harlem Renaissance, and Zora Neale Hurston. The collection includes correspondence, administrative materials related to her work at Rutgers University as well as Crossroads Theatre Company, conference materials, course syllabi and readings, draft writings, and research materials. Materials date from 1966 to 2020. ...more information Return to Collections A to Z Index Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet