Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Collections Science Fiction Collection Dating from the 1880s to the present, the Science Fiction Collection at Houghton Library includes trade paperbacks, magazines, fanzines, and prozines, as well as many works of science fiction, fantasy, and horror. H.J. Allingham. The Robot Man. London: Amalgamated Press, 1931. Houghton Library The Science Fiction Collection at Houghton Library consists largely of 20th-century trade paperbacks, magazines, fanzines, and prozines. Established as a discrete collection in 1957, it complements the Rev. Francis G. Peabody Utopian Literature Collection, as well as the library’s individual author collections of such writers as Jules Verne, H.G. Wells, and Edward Bellamy. History Nelson Slade Bond. The Remarkable Exploits of Lancelot Biggs: Spaceman. Garden City, New York: Doubleday & Company, Inc., 1951. Houghton Library Following the death of his son, junior Richard “Dick” W. Clarkson (Class of 1955), Paul S. Clarkson donated Dick’s collection of science fiction books to the Harvard University Library. The collection was curated by Lauriston Ward, curator of Asiatic Archaeology at the Peabody Museum, and a keen science-fiction fan. He was assisted by G. William Cottrell Jr., research associate in ornithology at Harvard's Museum of Comparative Zoology and founding editor of the Harvard Library Bulletin. Ward and Cottrell arranged a space for the collection within Houghton Library and solicited gifts to grow it, adding many volumes from their own libraries. Acquisitions declined following Ward’s death and Cottrell’s departure from the Harvard Library Bulletin, both in 1960, and ceased altogether by 1972. In 2009, funding from the Ruth Miller Memorial Philanthropic Fund enabled the library to catalog the collection, making it available to readers for the first time. Highlights The collection includes many works of science fiction, fantasy, and horror by both well-known and lesser-known authors, including: Isaac Asimov. I, Robot. New York: Gnome Press, 1950. Houghton Library Poul Anderson Isaac Asimov John Brunner Murray Leinster Eric Frank Russell Robert Sheckley Roy Sheldon Robert Silverberg Clifford D. Simak E.E. Smith George O. Smith Jerry Sohl Vargo Statten Theodore Sturgeon John Taine J.R.R. Tolkien E.C. Tubb Wilson Tucker A.E. Van Vogt Jean-Gaston Vandel Jules Verne Stanley Grauman Weinbaum H.G. Wells Dennis Wheatley Jack Williamson S. Fowler Wright John Wyndham Material in the collection dates from the 1880s to the present and also includes numerous anthologies and runs of nearly 200 science fiction periodicals. The collection also contains collections of fanzines, prozines, and APAs (amateur press association publications): the general collection, covering 1939–1971; that formed by William Wilson Goodson Jr., 1970–2008; and the New England Science Fiction Association APAs. Recent additions to the collection include The Star Trek Guide, a handbook detailing everything an aspiring writer needed to know write a script for the series. (Read more about the guide here.) Manuscript collections of science fiction authors include: Fredric Brown. What Mad Universe. New York: E. P. Dutton & Co., Inc., 1949. Houghton Library the papers of Sterling Lanier page proofs of George O. Smith’s The Fourth “R” the Dick Clarkson collection of correspondence on science fiction clubs typescripts of short stories submitted to various publications by over 30 authors records of the Pittsburgh Science Fiction Association Lauriston Ward’s notebooks on “imaginative” science fiction compositions by John Wood Campbell a collection of materials relating to Anne McCaffrey’s Dragonsinger Accessing These Materials Items in the Science Fiction Collection can be located in HOLLIS by searching field "Code: Local call number" for SF*. This will return materials specifically in the collection, but not all material by some science fiction authors in author collections. For this reason, it is often preferable to search HOLLIS by author or title. Many items in the collection were printed on low-quality woodpulp paper, and are brittle. These are identified as "Restricted" in HOLLIS. Readers are asked to consult other copies at Harvard if possible. Permission to use restricted material must be obtained from Houghton Library. Additionally, some manuscript material is uncataloged and requires permission before access is possible. For these materials, please contact the library in advance of your visit. View Collection Details Contact Houghton Library Reference email: Email Phone number 617-495-2441 Related Collections Collection Modern American Culture Collections Collection Modern American Culture Collections Houghton Library’s American Culture Collections include the books and papers of some of America's most notable 19th- and 20th-century literary figures. Collection Modern British and Irish Culture Collections Collection Modern British and Irish Culture Collections Houghton Library’s collections of 19th- and 20th-century British and Irish literature contain the papers of many writers and artists, with strong holdings on the Romantics. Collection Modern History of Science Collections Collection Modern History of Science Collections This Houghton Library collection offers insight into the working lives of modern scientists. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.