Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU HDS Home Email My.HDS HOLLIS ATLA Religion Database Search Google main search box code About Contact the Library Directions Hours Find Your Way Book a Group Study Room Library News Mission and History Research Tools Key Databases Essential Tools and Services M.Div. Senior Paper FAQ Citation Tools Research Guides How to Find Archives Help & Services Collections Religion Collections at Harvard Collection Strengths Special Collections Unitarian Universalist Resources Digital Collections Collections Beyond Harvard Ask Us HOME / COLLECTIONS / Collections Beyond Harvard HOLLIS HOLLIS is primarily a guide to resources owned by Harvard libraries, but the results of your searches may also include some materials not held at Harvard. These can usually be obtained quickly from other libraries at your request. Religion Databases Cross-Search Choosing the “Religion Databases Cross-Search” search on our our homepage enables simultaneous searching of additional databases not included in a HOLLIS search. These include Academic Search Premier, ATLA Religion Database, Bibliography of Asian Studies, Christian Periodical Index, Index Islamicus, Index to Jewish Periodicals, New Testament Abstracts, Old Testament Abstracts, and Philosopher's Index. Results include resources available both at Harvard and beyond, many of which can be accessed electronically. Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium The Boston Theological Interreligious Consortium (BTI Consortium) is a local consortium of theological schools, including Boston College School of Theology and Ministry, Boston University School of Theology, Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary, Hartford Seminary, Harvard Divinity School, Hebrew College, Holy Cross Greek Orthodox School of Theology, and Saint John’s Seminary. The libraries of BTI Consortium schools extend reading and borrowing privileges to faculty and students at other BTI Consortium institutions so that each school can benefit from the rich collections of these libraries combined. Ivies Plus and Borrow Direct Ivies Plus is a consortium of schools, including Brown University, Columbia University, Cornell University, Dartmouth College, Duke University, Harvard University, Johns Hopkins University, MIT, Princeton University, Stanford University, University of Chicago, University of Pennsylvania, and Yale University. Borrow Direct is a service that enables Harvard students, faculty, and staff to borrow books directly from the libraries of these schools. The library bears the cost of the service, so there is no charge to patrons. The holdings of these libraries can be searched all at once at the Borrow Direct website. WorldCat WorldCat is a union (collective) catalog that itemizes the collections of 72,000 libraries in 170 countries and territories. As of November 2014, it contained more than 330 million records, representing over 2 billion physical and digital assets in 485 languages. This database can be used to discover or verify citations of items not found in HOLLIS, find a local holding library for a particular resource, or obtain accurate citations for interlibrary loan requests. Collections Religion Collections at Harvard Our Collection Strengths Special Collections Unitarian Universalist Resources Digital Projects Collections Beyond Harvard See Weekly Hours Featured Image West Somerville Universalist Church (Somerville, Massachusetts) Photograph ... Read more about West Somerville Universalist Church (Somerville, Massachusetts) HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL LIBRARY 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 617.495.5788 my.hds | Harvard University | Harvard Library | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Trademark Notice | Reporting Copyright Infringements Copyright © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. HDS Library Styles Code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement