Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU HDS Home Email My.HDS HOLLIS ATLA Religion Database Search Google main search box code About Contact the Library Directions Hours Find Your Way Book a Group Study Room Library News Mission and History Research Tools Key Databases Essential Tools and Services M.Div. Senior Paper FAQ Citation Tools Research Guides How to Find Archives Help & Services Collections Religion Collections at Harvard Collection Strengths Special Collections Unitarian Universalist Resources Digital Collections Collections Beyond Harvard Ask Us HOME / RESEARCH TOOLS / M.Div. Senior Paper FAQ We offer tools for each stage of research and writing as you work on your M.Div. Senior Seminar paper or Capstone paper: Do Research Use these links to explore our resources: Key Databases by Topic All Harvard Databases Research Guides by Topic Or, work with a librarian. You will learn how to navigate the entire information landscape, including media, texts, data, maps, images, and archival material. Cite Research Management and Citation Tools at Harvard Zotero Write A Guide to Writing in Religious Studies (PDF) was created by Harvard University faculty. The Craft of Research (print only) guides you through the process of turning a topic into a research paper. Formatting questions can be answered by your advisor. Beginning with 2020, papers will be available in DASH, Harvard's online open access repository. All student papers deposited in DASH are grouped together in the HDS Student Papers collection. Papers from 1984 to 2019 are available in the library. Senior seminar papers and capstone papers will be accepted for deposit in DASH. Instructors will provide a link to the DASH deposit form and instructions for deposit to DASH. Questions regarding the instructions and the DASH deposit form may be directed to HDS librarians. Also see Learning and Writing Support from the HDS Office of Student Life. Research Tools Key Databases Essential Tools and Services M.Div. Senior Paper FAQ Citation Tools Research Guides How to Find Archives See Weekly Hours HARVARD DIVINITY SCHOOL LIBRARY 45 Francis Avenue, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 617.495.5788 my.hds | Harvard University | Harvard Library | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Trademark Notice | Reporting Copyright Infringements Copyright © 2022 President and Fellows of Harvard College. All rights reserved. 70a27f6d1bf950ac296ca619000f11ba HDS Library Styles Code Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement