Off-Campus Access | Library A–Z | Hours & Locations Search: Search BruKnow Library Website WorldCat Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Brown University Library Collections Russia and Eastern Europe Collections Select a different subject group Africana Alcohol and Addiction Studies American Culture and Society Art and Architecture Asian Studies Author Collections Book Arts Brown University Archives & History Business Children's Literature Disability Studies Early Printed Books Economics Education European Studies Fine and Decorative Arts Gender and Sexuality Studies Graphic Arts History (Non-United States) History (United States) History of Medicine History of Science, Mathematics, Technology Iberia, Latin America, and Latino Indigenous Studies Language & Literature, Non-Western LGBTQ Literature (Non-United States) Literature (United States) Magic and Occult Manuscript Collections Middle Eastern Studies Military History and Iconography Museum Objects Collections Performing Arts Political Science Printing and Publishing History Race and Ethnicity Religion Rhode Island/Local Interest Russia and Eastern Europe Science Fiction and Fantasy South Asia Women Return to Collections A to Z Index Anne S.K. Brown Military The Anne S. K. Brown Military Collection is the foremost American collection of material devoted to the history and iconography of soldiers and soldiering, and is one of the world's largest collections devoted to the study of military and naval uniforms. It was formed over a period of forty years by the late Mrs. John Nicholas Brown (1906-1985) of Providence and is still growing. It contains approximately 12,000 printed books, 18,000 albums, sketchbooks, scrapbooks and portfolios, (containing thousands of prints and drawings), and over 13,000 individual prints, drawings and water-colors as well as a collection of 5,000 miniature lead soldiers. Formerly in the Brown family residence (the Nightingale-Brown House, 1791), the entire collection (which was probably the largest private military collection in the world), was presented to Brown University and transferred to Special Collections located in the John Hay Library in 1982. ...more information Fox (Mary Borland Thayer) The Mary Borland Thayer Fox papers consist chiefly of Fox's own writings, written under the pseudonym, "Mary Borland." The collection includes poetry, short stories and essays, ballet libretti, and a diary detailing a visit in 1936 to the Soviet Union. In addition, the collection contains several scrapbooks; commonplace books; sheet music, written for her or simply given to her as a gift; news clippings and copies of literary journals in which her work appeared; and finally, correspondence, either addressed to her in response to some of her published writings, or written in regard to the publication of a posthumous volume of her work. ...more information Hinrichs (Albert Ford) This collection consists primarily of letters describing the USSR in 1930 and 1932 as it appeared to an American economist. Also included is miscellaneous biographical information relating to the author. ...more information Khrushchev Materials donated by Dr. Sergei Khrushchev, former Senior Fellow at the Watson Institute for International Studies, relating to his father and himself. The Nikita Khrushchev materials include transcripts of dictated reminiscences, edited by Sergei Khrushchev and later published; photograph albums of official visits both within and outside the Soviet Union; and a pair of shoes similar to the one made famous at the United Nations. In addition there are various books, articles, clippings, taped interviews, and various documents pertaining to his role as author and public speaker, both about his father and also about his own circumstances in becoming a naturalized American citizen. The collection comprises the Sergei Khrushchev papers (Ms. 2011.009), Nikita Khrushchev home movies, and Nikita Khrushchev audio memoirs and photograph album. The home movies are accessible online via the Khrushchev Archive. The audio memoirs are available online upon request. ...more information Russian Exchange The Russian Exchange records contain correspondence related to the publication exchange program between Brown University and several libraries located in the U.S.S.R. The collection also contains correspondence documenting the exchange of materials with UNESCO and Latin American libraries. ...more information Watson (Thomas J. Jr.) Thomas J. Watson, Jr., (Brown University class of 1937) was the President and CEO of International Business Machines (1952-1971). After his retirement from IBM, Watson began a career in government service, serving as chairman of the General Advisor Committee on Arms Control and Disarmament and as Ambassador to the Soviet Union (1978-1981). Watson's papers consist of correspondence, speeches, diaries, daybooks, manuscripts, ships' logs, military records, reports, printed material, photographs, and clippings dating from 1905 to 1994 that document the life of Thomas J. Watson, Jr. About twenty-five percent of the collection documents the period in which he was the Ambassador to the Soviet Union and fifteen percent of the collection consists of speeches. There is a dearth of material about the International Business Machines Corporation. The bulk of the IBM series consists of letters written to Watson in 1971 after he announced his retirement from the company. ...more information Image Source: Sergei Khrushchev Papers. John Hay Library Return to Collections A to Z Index Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet