My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) About the Libraries News Library Status Updates Library Status Updates Last updated Tuesday, May 3, 2022 at 3:16pm EST What's Available & Open Now Under the COVID-19 monitoring plan, indoor masking in library spaces is optional. Libraries remain open. Hours can be found here. Groups may study in designated reading rooms in libraries. *Certain visitors may access Butler Library. Visitors must check in for each visit at the Library Information Office in Butler Library during business hours with proof of vaccination and ID. Hours can be found here. Please review our Visitors page for more information about the types of visitors permitted to enter Butler at this time, plus important requirements. The Rare Book & Manuscript Library is accepting limited appointments for external visiting researchers. Appointments at all other special collections remain open only to current Columbia faculty, students, and staff. Video conferencing and group study is allowed in designated rooms. Study space options can be found here. Butler Cafe is open. Eating is not curently allowed in library spaces. Drinks are allowed in library spaces in spill-proof containers only. *Butler Library is allowing building access to a limited number of visitors with research needs and an existing connection to the Columbia University community. Please check the Visitor Page for types of visitors permitted to enter at this time. Ongoing Access to Online Collections and Help Scanning is available from offsite collections and most campus locations. Scanning via Interlibrary Loan has also been enabled. Eligible items will have a "Scan" hyperlink in the CLIO record. Reproductions of small portions will be made in accordance with the Terms of Service. Archival collections, rare books, and some other offsite materials are not eligible to be requested. Faculty and instructors can request required course readings be placed on Course Reserves by using our submission form as soon as possible. Library staff will then be in touch with details on the availability of each item. Whenever possible, we will supply electronic copies of materials. Also, consult with an expert about using films in courses. Faculty and instructors can request a tailored library instruction session and/or consult with a subject specialist or relevant distinctive collections repository about designing and supporting research assignments and alternative projects in the context of a remote or hybrid learning environment. Any library user can get general 1-1 help online by using our Ask a Librarian service. Any library user can get 1-1 help online from an expert with questions about copyright or digital methods for research and publishing. Frequently Asked Questions about Reopening How can I use Interlibrary Loan or BorrowDirect? Borrow Direct requests can be filled from many of the consortial partners. Search via the website portal or click on Pick-Up (Borrow Direct) in CLIO. Interlibrary Loan scan and hardcopy borrowing requests can be submitted directly via Borrow Direct if no requestable copy is available, via e-Link in Worldcat or the ILL website portal. Are course materials still available for first-generation, low-income students? Books from the First-Generation, Low-Income (FLI) Partnership Library at Columbia are available through the Libraries’ Book Pick-Up Service. For further information about the collection and to suggest new additions, please see FLI Partnership Library page on the Libraries’ website. How can I access collections online? Which collections are online? Many of our collections are always available online, including ebooks (choose “ebooks” on the left before or after any search in CLIO), research databases, digital reproductions from our rare and special collections, and access to health sciences databases and health sciences resources. If you have questions about the availability of a collection, how to access a collection, or how to make a collection request, please contact us. What tools for research and learning are available remotely? Many software programs and limited-access databases such as the Bloomberg Help Guide that are available remotely through the libraries, or from direct download from CUIT. CUIT also provides access to computer lab technologies for access to many additional software and tools. Use Electronic Lab Notebooks to organize and store laboratory data and share information with collaborators. Organize your research with citation management tools such as Zotero. Browse comprehensive research guides by subject, created by subject specialists. Take advantage of access to expert-led online professional development courses and videos with LinkedIn Learning. Access research and scholarship produced at Columbia University and its affiliate institutions through Academic Commons. How do I get updates about the status of Columbia classes, campus building access, restrictions, etc.? Please continue to refer to the University’s COVID-19 Guidance for the Columbia Community for information about classes, campus events, health updates, travel restrictions, and preventative measures. For questions not answered here, please email lio@columbia.edu. Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 All Libraries Staff Subject Specialists News Events & Exhibitions Maps & Directions Libraries Awards Strategic Directions Policies Workshops Drop-in Help Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian