Skip to main content Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Ask Yale Library My Library Accounts  My Library Accounts  My Account (Orbis) Special Collections Scan and Deliver Borrow Direct Interlibrary Loan Bass Media Equipment Hours Bass 8:30am - 10pm Lewis Walpole 10am - 4:45pm Beinecke Lillian Goldman Law 8am - 6pm Center for British Art 10am - 3pm Marx Science and Social Science 8:30am - 8pm Classics Closed Mathematics 8:30am - 5pm Cushing/Whitney Medical 7:30am - 12am Sterling 8:30am - 8pm Divinity 8:30am - 4:50pm Film Archive 1pm - 5pm Gilmore Music 8:30am - 8pm Manuscripts and Archives 10am - 4:30pm Haas Family Arts 8:30am - 5pm Search this sight Yale Library Go to search Find, Request, and Use  Find  Quicksearch Orbis Articles+ E-Journals Databases Archives at Yale Digital Collections FirstSearch (WorldCat) Request  Borrow Direct Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Course Reserves Scan and Deliver Purchase Request Mail to Address My Library Accounts Use  Borrowing and Circulation Off-Campus Access Special Collections Help and Research Support  Help  Request a research consultation Subject Specialists Personal Librarians Accessibility Services Research Support  Subject Guides Course Guides Copyright Basics Digital Humanities Geographic Information Systems (GIS) StatLab Research Data Management Library Workshops Citation Tools Visit and Study  Visit Information  Special Collections Printers and Scanners Places to Study Carrels and Lockers Media Equipment Room Reservations Borrowing Books Library Access and Use Libraries / Locations  Bass Beinecke Rare Book Center for British Art Classics Cushing/Whitney Medical Divinity East Asia Gilmore Music Haas Family Arts Lewis Walpole Lillian Goldman Law Marx Science and Social Science Mathematics Sterling Memorial Explore Collections  Explore  Collection Development Primary Sources Digital Collections Humanities Collections International Collections EliScholar Fortunoff Video Archive About Us  About  About Us Home Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Library News Events Exhibitions Staff Directory Jobs Library Prizes Jobs Open Positions (Staff and Student Workers) Yale University Library has about 500 staff members—librarians and non-librarians–at more than a dozen libraries and locations. View all open staff positions by searching on the work location “University Library System.” The library is also among the largest student employers at Yale. View all open student positions. Who We Are Our staff facilitate teaching, research, and practice, offering deep subject-area knowledge as well as expertise in digital humanities, geographic information systems, and the use and management of research data. Our preservation and conservation specialists develop and apply leading-edge technology to maintain our collections. In this way, they provide critical support for increased access to collections, an expanding exhibition program, and Yale’s emphasis on teaching with primary sources. While many library staff are librarians, curators, and archivists, the library also employs staff in a wide range of professional, managerial, technical, and administrative positions. Administrative and technical staff keep the library humming, assist patrons in-person or online, and make library users feel welcome in our spaces. View the Yale Library staff directory. Learn more about the library’s commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion. Where We Work Yale University is deeply embedded and involved in the New Haven community through programming and outreach. Yale Library is an active participant in the New Haven community, including through its participation in the New Haven Promise program and through public programming and exhibitions. In non-COVID times, Yale Library public spaces are among the most frequently visited spaces on campus. Most library jobs are in New Haven at libraries and library departments that serve users directly, such as Sterling Memorial Library, Bass Library, Beinecke Library, Cushing/Whitney Medical Library, the Divinity Library, Haas Family Arts Library, and Marx Science and Social Science Library. One library workplace that is not user-facing is 344 Winchester. This location is home to Preservation and Conservation, including the Gates Conservation Lab, and Technical Services, the department that receives, processes, and catalogs newly acquired books and manages the technology by which licensed electronic resources are provided to library users. Beyond New Haven, Yale Library has locations—and staff—in two other Connecticut towns. The Lewis Walpole Library in Farmington is a global destination for research on 18th-century England. The Library Shelving Facility in Hamden is a high-density climate-controlled storage facility and the hub of a delivery system that transports collection materials around campus. How We Work Yale Library seeks to nurture and maintain a work environment based on community values of mutual respect, integrity, and civility. The library is actively working to increase diversity, equity, and inclusion in all aspects of its workforce, services, spaces and programs. The Advisory Committee on Library Staff Diversity and Inclusion advises library leadership on strengthening the climate and culture of mutual respect and recruitment and retention of a more diverse workforce. The Library Staff Association (LiSA) promotes staff knowledge and development, morale, and staff relations by providing opportunities for the exchange of information among staff, welcoming new staff, and organizing social and cultural events. The Standing Committee on Professional Awareness (SCOPA) supports professional growth among librarians by creating and sponsoring lectures, training sessions, information sessions, and other events for the library staff. Regardless of role, Yale values each person’s contribution and nurtures his or her professional development through tuition reimbursement programs and numerous opportunities for on-campus learning. The diversity of Yale is reflected in a vibrant and stimulating work environment. Yale’s Office of Diversity and Inclusion collaborates with departments and individuals across campus to promote a respectful, accessible and inclusive community for all Yale employees. Along with exceptional benefits such as health care, pension plans, competitive pay, generous paid time off, tuition assistance, life insurance, and long-term disability insurance, faculty and staff enjoy Yale’s world-class museums, performing arts, libraries, and sporting events. Yale University has been recognized as an employer of choice by multiple entities. More Resources Learn more about working at Yale. Visit Yale’s Office of New Haven Affairs. Read about the University’s Belonging at Yale initiative. Library News More news Two seniors receive the 2022 Harvey M. Applebaum ’59 Award Maps and charts enhance, deepen content of award-winning senior essays Image Gallery: Congratulations, Class of 2022! Library exhibitions on view at Sterling and Beinecke over Commencement weekend Kaplan Prize recognizes seniors’ research in Yale Library collections More news Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Site Navigation Find, Request, and Use Help and Research Support Visit and Study Explore Collections About Us Ask Yale Library My Library Accounts Hours Yale University Library P.O. BOX 208240 New Haven, CT 06520-8240 (203) 432-1775 Yale Yale's Libraries Bass Library Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library Center for British Art Library Classics Library Cushing/Whitney Medical Library Divinity Library East Asia Library Gilmore Music Library Haas Family Arts Library Lewis Walpole Library Lillian Goldman Law Library Marx Science and Social Science Library Mathematics Library Sterling Memorial Library Hours, Addresses, and Access Subscribe to our newsletter @yalelibrary Yale Library Instagram AccessibilityDiversity, Equity, and InclusionGivingPrivacy and Data UseContact Our Web Team © 2021 Yale University Library • All Rights Reserved