Skip To Content University Libraries Events Events Events Calendar Exhibit Unexpected Treasures on Campus Exhibit opens January 18 – April 22 The Cushing Memorial Library and Archives is pleased to announce their new exhibition, showcasing unique and rare items from the campus collections. Learn More event 6th Annual Human Library at the University Libraries Wednesday, March 09, 2022 The Human Library Events aim to create dialogue and deeper understanding in the Aggie community. At the Human Library Events, ‘Readers’ will have the opportunity to sign up and interact with a Human Book to ask questions, learn more and share experiences. This will offer a chance for an individual or a small group of Readers to have a 30-minute conversation to learn more about the Book's individual experiences. Learn More Workshop Series Research Data Management Workshops Summer The University Libraries offer workshops on a variety of research data management topics that provide best practices for all disciplines. Attendance at these workshops fulfill requirements for the G.R.A.D. Aggies Certificate Program and the Responsible Conduct of Research Supplemental Training Program. Workshops are online via Zoom unless otherwise specified. See the Full Schedule Workshop Series Publishing and Copyright Workshops Spring Semester The University Libraries will be offering workshops for researchers on copyright and how it relates to the publication of articles, dissertations, or theses. Please see the check individual listings for descriptions of each workshop. All workshops may be taken for G.R.A.D. Aggies credit, and all of them will be held online. See the Full Schedule Workshop Series The Studio Workshops Spring Semester Come visit The Studio and see what our 2022 Spring classes have to offer. Classes are open to TAMU students, staff and faculty and best of all, the classes are free. The Studio provides specialized services and tools for creating and editing graphics, video, audio, and multimedia projects. Our goal is to provide the Texas A&M University community with multimedia tools, expert assistance, and educational programming to support the creation of media-enriched instructional projects. See the Full Schedule Workshop Series Citation Management Tools Workshops Spring Semester The University Libraries is offering a series of workshops on citation management tools. Learn to use one of these tools to save, organize, and easily cite your references in your assignments, articles, or thesis and dissertation. If you are unsure which citation management tool matches your needs, please visit our guide by clicking here: Citation Management Tools See the Full Schedule Support the Libraries AskUs anything at anytime. Chat with Us Call Us Text Us @ 979-256-1091 Email Us About the Libraries Quick Phone & Mailing List Directory | Find my Librarian Employment Diversity Matters Site Map | Site Search Follow Us Facebook Twitter You Tube Instagram