CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Borrow Direct Plus @ Columbia University Overview Students, faculty and staff from the universities listed below may request on-site borrowing privileges. A paper borrowing card will be issued. Intitutions participating in reciprocal access and on-site borrowing are listed below along with hyperlinks to the Borrow Direct authentication pages. Brown University Cornell University Dartmouth College Duke University Harvard University John Hopkins University MIT Princeton University Stanford University of Chicago University of Pennsylvannia Yale University Where do I go to obtain my borrowing card? Please visit the Library Information Office in room 201 Butler Library. This office is located near the main entrance. Office hours: Monday through Friday: 9 am to 5:45 pm, Saturday: 11 am to 5:45 pm, and Sunday: 12 noon to 4:45 pm. Email: lio@columbia.edu. Phone: 212-854-7309. What documents must I present to obtain my borrowing card? You will be asked to show your institutional ID, and a government issued photo ID card. In order to verify that you are a current student or staff member at your institution, you will be asked to log into your Borrow Direct login page at your home insitution. Students and staff from Duke will be asked to log into their My Library Account. What libraries at Columbia may I use? You have physical access and borrowing privileges at all the Columbia libraries except the Law Library, Teachers College, the Health Sciences Library, and Jewish Theological Seminary. Library locations may be found on the campus map. Where will I find the hours of the various Columbia University libraries? Library hours may be found here. Where will find information about the various Columbia Libraries? Each library has its own Web page. Please visit this page for details. Information about various study spaces may be found here. Are there any restrictions to the resources or services that I can use? The maxiumum number of items that may be checked out on your borrowing account is 20. Films on DVD, VHS and Laserdisc and music CDs may not be checked out. The computers in the computer labs and digital centers may not be used. Public PCs may be used, and are available in most of the libraries. Hours of access may be restricted in some libraries. For instance, you may use Butler Library from 9 am to 11 pm. During midterms and finals, the Business Library restricts access during the day to Columbia business students and students majoring in economics. Off campus access to electronic resources is not provided. Guests may not be brought into the libraries. Food may not be brought into the libraries. Lockers (except for day lockers) and study carrels are not provided. Group study rooms may be used if vacant, but may not be reserved in advance. Sidebar Columbia University Libraries Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Map: Libraries Map » Access & Borrowing Links Library Information Office Accessing the Libraries Borrowing & Renewing Materials Library Services Links Request Items Services & Tools Visitors Course Reserves Study Spaces Disability Services Preservation & Digital Conversion Division Libraries Website Search CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.