Skip to main content Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Ask Yale Library My Library Accounts  My Library Accounts  My Account (Orbis) Special Collections Scan and Deliver Borrow Direct Interlibrary Loan Bass Media Equipment Hours Bass 8:30am - 10pm Lewis Walpole 10am - 4:45pm Beinecke Lillian Goldman Law 8am - 6pm Center for British Art 10am - 3pm Marx Science and Social Science 8:30am - 8pm Classics Closed Mathematics 8:30am - 5pm Cushing/Whitney Medical 7:30am - 12am Sterling 8:30am - 8pm Divinity 8:30am - 4:50pm Film Archive 1pm - 5pm Gilmore Music 8:30am - 8pm Manuscripts and Archives 10am - 4:30pm Haas Family Arts 8:30am - 5pm Search this sight Yale Library Go to search Find, Request, and Use  Find  Quicksearch Orbis Articles+ E-Journals Databases Archives at Yale Digital Collections FirstSearch (WorldCat) Request  Borrow Direct Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Course Reserves Scan and Deliver Purchase Request Mail to Address My Library Accounts Use  Borrowing and Circulation Off-Campus Access Special Collections Help and Research Support  Help  Request a research consultation Subject Specialists Personal Librarians Accessibility Services Research Support  Subject Guides Course Guides Copyright Basics Digital Humanities Geographic Information Systems (GIS) StatLab Research Data Management Library Workshops Citation Tools Visit and Study  Visit Information  Special Collections Printers and Scanners Places to Study Carrels and Lockers Media Equipment Room Reservations Borrowing Books Library Access and Use Libraries / Locations  Bass Beinecke Rare Book Center for British Art Classics Cushing/Whitney Medical Divinity East Asia Gilmore Music Haas Family Arts Lewis Walpole Lillian Goldman Law Marx Science and Social Science Mathematics Sterling Memorial Explore Collections  Explore  Collection Development Primary Sources Digital Collections Humanities Collections International Collections EliScholar Fortunoff Video Archive About Us  About  About Us Home Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Library News Events Exhibitions Staff Directory Jobs Library Prizes Exhibitions Exhibition News New gallery and exhibition spotlight library treasures—and the discoveries they spark April 6, 2022 View the Curator Conversation about “Points of Contact, Points of View: Asking Questions in Yale Library Special Collections.” The opening exhibition of the new Hanke Gallery features more than 60 rare, fragile, and unique objects. Yale Library celebrates Quantum Week April 5, 2022 From April 8 through April 14, Yale Library will celebrate Yale Quantum Week, partnering with the Yale Quantum Institute to host several special events and exhibits about quantum and science at libraries across campus. Yale Library announces new Senior Exhibit Fellowship, proposals due March 7 February 9, 2022 Proposals are due March 7 for a new fellowship that will provide one rising senior a $4,200 summer research stipend plus mentoring and production support to curate a museum-quality exhibit in Sterling Library. Now on View Knight Errant of the Distressed: Horace Walpole and Philanthropy in Eighteenth-Century London Wednesday, May 11, 2022 - 2:00pm to Wednesday, December 21, 2022 - 4:30pm Was Horace Walpole really a “miser,” as William Hazlitt claimed? This exhibition uses images, manuscripts, artefacts and extracts from publications and correspondence to situate Walpole within the burgeoning philanthropic culture of his age. It reveals Walpole’s secret giving to prisoners and other good causes and examines the principles that underlay his philanthropy. A main aim of the exhibition is to stimulate discussion about philanthropy today. Walpole wrote that “if it ever is justifiable to good sense to act romantically, it is by being the knights errant of the distressed.” The Senior Exhibit: We Are Everywhere: Lesbians in the Archive Monday, May 2, 2022 (All day) to Friday, September 30, 2022 (All day) This year’s Yale Library Senior Exhibit, curated by Gabrielle Colangelo ‘22, is now on display in the Sterling Memorial Library Exhibition Corridor. All are invited to a Curator’s Talk and Tour on Tuesday, May 10, at 4:30 pm , in the Exhibition Corridor and an on-line Curator Talk on Monday, May 16, at 4 pm. Libraries are sites of self-discovery. Many coming-out stories feature accounts of individuals finding queerness for the first time while reading. At the same time, libraries are not apolitical spaces: homophobic and outdated library classification practices have made “lesbian” a there are the ones who do see me: Celebrating Yale Women Artists Saturday, April 2, 2022 (All day) to Friday, August 26, 2022 (All day) As part of the celebrations of the 150th anniversary of Women at Yale, this exhibition highlights works by women who have graduated from the School of Art, Yale’s first coeducational school. The education of women has been a fundamental part of the School’s mission since its foundation. The initial bequest that made the School possible was a donation of Augustus and Caroline Street specifically for “a school for practical instruction, open to both sexes, for such as propose to follow art as a profession.” Drawn from Arts Library Special Collections, these artists books, prints, and photo Points of Contact, Points of View: Asking Questions in Yale Library Special Collections Monday, March 14, 2022 (All day) to Sunday, August 14, 2022 (All day) The inaugural exhibition in Sterling Library’s new Hanke Exhibition Gallery—Points of Contact, Points of View: Asking Questions in Yale Library Special Collections—features more than 60 unique documents, books, objects, and images, curated and displayed so visitors can experience firsthand how primary sources inspire inquiry, learning, and the creation of new knowledge. The exhibition centers around the idea of asking questions—the foundation of research—as a way to gain insight into Yale Library’s outstanding collections and into the scholarly practices that lead to new discoveries. The Brava! Women Make American Theater Friday, January 28, 2022 (All day) to Sunday, July 3, 2022 (All day) Open weekdays to Yale students, staff, and faculty authorized to be on campus. Visit the Beinecke Library website for specific hours and details. Brava! Women Make American Theater showcases, through archival materials, the ways in which women in the United States engaged in the production and reception of text-based stage performance over its long history. Far from offering a comprehensive account of women in theatrical enterprises, Brava! highlights how stage performance often mirrored, but also frequently challenged and changed, understandings of women’s roles and of women’s rights in Twelve Portraits: Studies of Women at Yale, by Tanya Marcuse Sunday, August 1, 2021 (All day) to Saturday, December 31, 2022 (All day) The portraits featured in this exhibit are drawn from a larger series of photographs by Tanya Marcuse (MFA ’90). This exhibit is part of the university-wide 50 Women at Yale 150 celebration, which aims “to showcase the depth of women’s contributions to Yale and to the world, to celebrate women at the university, and to inspire thoughtful conversation about the future of women at Yale and in the larger society.” Women at the Dawn of History Saturday, February 29, 2020 (All day) to Thursday, June 30, 2022 (All day) Tens of thousands of cuneiform texts, monumental sculptures, and images on terracotta reliefs and cylinder seals cast light on the fates of women at the dawn of history, from queens to female slaves. They are displayed in this exhibition in the Yale Babylonian Collection in Sterling Library to those with a Yale-ID. Contact babylonian.collection@yale.edu for access details. Cushing Center Medical History Exhibition Wednesday, January 2, 2019 (All day) to Friday, December 22, 2023 (All day) The Cushing Center, located within the Cushing/Whitney Medical Library, is an extensive permanent medical historical exhibition created from the personal papers and collections of Harvey Cushing, father of modern neurosurgery and an 1891 Yale graduate. It includes jars of century-old brain specimens used in his research as well as historical books and manuscripts, reproductions of artwork, and videos. Online Exhibitions The Kings at Yale Materiality, Fragility, and Loss in the Medical Archive Doing Good by Stealth: The Philanthropy and Service of Annie Burr Lewis Publication & Prejudice Pass It On: Preserving our Collective and Personal Cultural Heritage We Were Always Here: Celebrating All Women at Yale "We thought of ourselves as architects": Coeducation and the Yale Campus, 1968-1973 Online: Knight Errant of the Distressed: Horace Walpole’s Philanthropy in Eighteenth-Century London Online: We Are Everywhere: Lesbians in the Archive Online: William Hogarth's Topographies Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Site Navigation Find, Request, and Use Help and Research Support Visit and Study Explore Collections About Us Ask Yale Library My Library Accounts Hours Yale University Library P.O. BOX 208240 New Haven, CT 06520-8240 (203) 432-1775 Yale Yale's Libraries Bass Library Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library Center for British Art Library Classics Library Cushing/Whitney Medical Library Divinity Library East Asia Library Gilmore Music Library Haas Family Arts Library Lewis Walpole Library Lillian Goldman Law Library Marx Science and Social Science Library Mathematics Library Sterling Memorial Library Hours, Addresses, and Access Subscribe to our newsletter @yalelibrary Yale Library Instagram AccessibilityDiversity, Equity, and InclusionGivingPrivacy and Data UseContact Our Web Team © 2021 Yale University Library • All Rights Reserved