Skip to main content Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Ask Yale Library My Library Accounts  My Library Accounts  My Account (Orbis) Special Collections Scan and Deliver Borrow Direct Interlibrary Loan Bass Media Equipment Hours Bass 8:30am - 10pm Lewis Walpole 10am - 4:45pm Beinecke Lillian Goldman Law 8am - 6pm Center for British Art 10am - 3pm Marx Science and Social Science 8:30am - 8pm Classics Closed Mathematics 8:30am - 5pm Cushing/Whitney Medical 7:30am - 12am Sterling 8:30am - 8pm Divinity 8:30am - 4:50pm Film Archive 1pm - 5pm Gilmore Music 8:30am - 8pm Manuscripts and Archives 10am - 4:30pm Haas Family Arts 8:30am - 5pm Search this sight Yale Library Go to search Find, Request, and Use  Find  Quicksearch Orbis Articles+ E-Journals Databases Archives at Yale Digital Collections FirstSearch (WorldCat) Request  Borrow Direct Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Course Reserves Scan and Deliver Purchase Request Mail to Address My Library Accounts Use  Borrowing and Circulation Off-Campus Access Special Collections Help and Research Support  Help  Request a research consultation Subject Specialists Personal Librarians Accessibility Services Research Support  Subject Guides Course Guides Copyright Basics Digital Humanities Geographic Information Systems (GIS) StatLab Research Data Management Library Workshops Citation Tools Visit and Study  Visit Information  Special Collections Printers and Scanners Places to Study Carrels and Lockers Media Equipment Room Reservations Borrowing Books Library Access and Use Libraries / Locations  Bass Beinecke Rare Book Center for British Art Classics Cushing/Whitney Medical Divinity East Asia Gilmore Music Haas Family Arts Lewis Walpole Lillian Goldman Law Marx Science and Social Science Mathematics Sterling Memorial Explore Collections  Explore  Collection Development Primary Sources Digital Collections Humanities Collections International Collections EliScholar Fortunoff Video Archive About Us  About  About Us Home Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Library News Events Exhibitions Staff Directory Jobs Library Prizes Find, Request, and Use Find Quicksearch  Submit Articles+ Access scholarly, peer-reviewed articles or expand your search to add-in newspaper and magazine articles, dissertations, and more. Books+ Search collections from Yale's classic catalogs (Orbis - Yale University Library and Morris - Yale Law Library). Databases Find specific databases or to discover new resources such as journal or e-book collections, archival materials, government documents, or streaming music and video. Digital Collections Access millions of digitized images and works from the Yale Library. Some digital collections are not included here and this site is in transition to a new, more integrated platform for improved discovery and use. Orbis Search Yale's classic catalog for print and online resources. E-Journals Search for e-journals and connect to our subscription access to each title. Archives at Yale Search more than 8,000 finding aids with detailed descriptions of archival collections from which you can request materials. Digital Collections Discover and access millions of digitized images and works from Yale Library collections. FirstSearch (WorldCat) WorldCat connects you to the collections of more than 10,000 libraries worldwide. Request Borrow Direct Obtain books from other top U.S. academic libraries through our Ivy Plus partners. Interlibrary Loan Can't find the materials you need at Yale? Submit an Interlibrary Loan request and we'll search libraries around the world. Course Reserves Learn how to put library materials on reserve for your class. Scan and Deliver Need a book chapter from Sterling? An article from Medical? Use Scan and Deliver to request material be scanned and emailed to you. Purchase Request Have something you'd like to see the library buy and add to Yale's collections? Submit a purchase request. Mail to Address Learn how to request items be shipped to your address. For current faculty, staff, and students only. My Library Accounts Manage your library experience by visiting common library accounts. Use Borrowing / Circulation Your library privileges depend on your status at Yale. To determine what is available to you, please visit this webpage and choose your affiliation. Off-campus Access Learn how to easily access Yale's e-resources from off-campus. Special Collections Learn how to navigate and use Special Collections at Yale Library. Quicksearch Video Tutorials Search Digital Collections Finding Datasets in Quicksearch Books+ Find E-books Using Quicksearch Find Databases by Title Find Articles Using Quicksearch Find Databases by Subject Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Site Navigation Find, Request, and Use Help and Research Support Visit and Study Explore Collections About Us Ask Yale Library My Library Accounts Hours Yale University Library P.O. BOX 208240 New Haven, CT 06520-8240 (203) 432-1775 Yale Yale's Libraries Bass Library Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library Center for British Art Library Classics Library Cushing/Whitney Medical Library Divinity Library East Asia Library Gilmore Music Library Haas Family Arts Library Lewis Walpole Library Lillian Goldman Law Library Marx Science and Social Science Library Mathematics Library Sterling Memorial Library Hours, Addresses, and Access Subscribe to our newsletter @yalelibrary Yale Library Instagram AccessibilityDiversity, Equity, and InclusionGivingPrivacy and Data UseContact Our Web Team © 2021 Yale University Library • All Rights Reserved