Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. McFarlin Home HOURS ASK US MY LIBRARY ACCOUNT Search the library website Go! ABOUT Events Fines & Fees History of McFarlin Library Hours Maps & Directions Message from the Dean Mission Staff Directory Welcome to the Library Video FIND MATERIALS ★ Search Summon ★ A-Z Database List Classic Catalog Course Reserves List Journal List Research Guides Textbook Reserves List GET HELP Ask a Librarian / Contact Us FAQ Quick Tips Videos Schedule a Virtual Appointment INFORMATION FOR Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate Students International Students Remote Learners Undergraduate Students Visitors LIBRARY SPACES Computer Lab & IT Help Desk Faculty Resource Center Group Study Rooms iClassrooms Writing Center SERVICES Book & Material Pickup Form Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Suggest a Purchase SPECIAL COLLECTIONS STUDENT JOBS COVID-19 GUIDE MORE LIBRARIES HCAR (Gilcrease Museum) MLIC (Law Library) McFarlin Library LibGuides Graduate Student Library Resources & Services Home Enter Search Words Search Graduate Student Library Resources & Services: Home This guide is an introduction to the resources and services available to graduate students at McFarlin Library. Home Books & More Dissertations Journals Research DatabasesToggle Dropdown All Databases Advanced Research Guides Google Scholar Zotero Interlibrary Loan FAQ Need More Help? Welcome to McFarlin Library The primary goal of the McFarlin librarians is to assist members of The University of Tulsa community with their library and research needs. This guide is an attempt to bring together the most pertinent information for our graduate students to help them with their academic pursuits. Please contact Charles Brooks if there are any other points you'd like to see added to this research guide. Summon Quick Search Search the library using Summon for books, ebooks, journal articles, DVDs, and other materials you need. Research Help Form The library is offering Virtual Research Appointments to help with finding resources, refining your search question, or assistance with any other research questions. Fill out this form to request a video appointment with a librarian. Libguides Quick guides Advanced guides Course guides Photocopiers/Scanning Self-service copiers are located on the Intermediate and Lower Levels of the McFarlin west wing. Copies are $.10/page. A change machine is available next to the copier on the Intermediate Level. Free scanners are available on either side of the main stairwell on the Lower Level. Building maps McFarlin Library opened in 1930 with additions added in 1966, 1979 and 2009. It's a wonderfully challenging building to navigate. McFarlin Library Floor Map Call Number Locations This pdf lists which section of the main stacks each call number is located in. Borrowing Materials McFarlin Library's bookstacks are fully open to students, faculty and staff. We request you wear a mask while in the stacks. The library also offers a retrieval service. If you need a book or books you may fill out the online book request form. Library staff will retrieve the book(s) you need for you to pick up at the Plaza Level Check-out Desk. Your TU ID card serves as your library borrower’s card. You MUST have your TU ID card with you in order to check out any materials. Circulating materials include books, music CDs, educational DVDs (documentaries, classic films) and popular DVDs (recent movies, TV shows). Check out times for grad students: Books - 90 days with opportunity for 3 renewals. Maximum of 200 books checked out at a time. Media - 14 days. This includes DVDs, CDs and VHS. Maximum of 10 media items. Renewals allowed. Reserve materials - 2 hr. in library use only; 1, 3, 7 day checkout. You may renew at the Check Out Desk, by phone (918-631-2873) or through your "My Library" account Books can be recalled after 14 days. You may ask the Check Out Dept. to put a hold on a book so that it will come to you as soon as it's returned. Print magazines/journals/newspapers and materials from Special Collections do not circulate. All TU students have access to the Law Library (MLIC) and may check out most items available there. MLIC may have slightly different policies about length of checkout. More detailed information is available on the FAQ. 'My Library' features The My Library feature includes several useful functions. Interlibrary Loan materials are NOT included. It allows you to see what books you have checked out. Renew your books without coming into the library Save searches Keep lists Reading history (You must 'opt in' to use this feature. After that, any book you check out through our library will appear in your history. You can delete any book or opt out at any time. Sorry, but ILL books are not included since they are checked out independently.) New book notification (If the "Mark for Email" column is checked, the system will automatically re-run your search at the first of each month and send you an email notification of any new books or other items acquired during the previous month that matches your search criteria. You may remove the search at any time by clicking on the "Mark to Remove" button and then clicking on the 'Update List' button. Be careful of the Clear All Searches button.) Helen N. Wallace Writing Center The Helen N. Wallace Writing Center offers one-on-one assistance with writing projects to all University of Tulsa students. The Writing Center is located on the 3rd floor of McFarlin. Call 918-631-3131 or go to the Writing Center website to make an appointment. Electronic Resources Librarian Charles Brooks Email Me Contact: McFarlin Library, The University of Tulsa 2933 E. 6th St. Tulsa, OK 74104-3123 Phone: 918-631-3793 FAX: 918-631-3791 Subjects: Geosciences, Government Information, History, Media Studies Next: Books & More >> Last Updated: May 6, 2022 3:53 PM URL: https://libraries.utulsa.edu/gradservices Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. About Events Fines & Fees History of McFarlin Library Hours Maps & Directions Message from the Dean Mission Staff Directory Welcome to the Library Video Find Materials ★ Search Summon ★ A-Z Database List Classic Catalog Course Reserves List Journal List Research Guides Textbook Reserves List Get Help Ask a Librarian / Contact Us FAQ Quick Tips Videos Schedule a Virtual Appointment Information For: Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate Students International Students Remote Learners Undergraduate Students Visitors Library Spaces Computer Lab & IT Help Desk Faculty Resource Center Group Study Rooms iClassrooms Special Collections Writing Center More Libraries HCAR (Gilcrease Museum) MLIC (Law Library) Services Book & Material Pickup Form Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Suggest a Purchase Site Policies Digital Accessibility Policy The University of Tulsa · McFarlin Library · 2933 East 6th Street · Tulsa, OK 74104-3123 · (918) 631-2871 · Facebook Library Staff Login (Libguides) · Print this page