Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Libraries Architecture Library This library supports teaching and research in the areas of architecture and design, history and theory of architecture, professional practice, urban studies and planning, urban and environmental design, and urban history. Website Architecture Building ues@princeton.edu (609) 258-3256 Center for Digital Humanities The Center for Digital Humanities is an interdisciplinary research center and academic unit within the Princeton University Library. At the CDH we embrace an inclusive understanding of DH that respects and investigates the myriad ways digital methods and technologies are opening new avenues for research into the human experience, past and present. Website Firestone Library East Asian Library The East Asian Library collects materials in practically all subjects in Chinese, Japanese, and Korean, as well as works on Chinese, Japanese and Korean linguistics and literatures in Western languages. Although the Gest Library was originally begun with the acquisition of many rare books, today it is the working collection that supports all kinds of research done in the Department and Program of East Asian Studies. Website Frist Campus Center gestcirc@princeton.edu (609) 258-3182 Engineering Library This library supports teaching and research in all engineering disciplines, including energy and environment and computer science. Website Lewis Library englib@princeton.edu (609) 258-3200 Firestone Library This library serves as the main library on campus and assumes primary responsibility for humanities and social sciences collections and specialized research support services. Website Firestone Library refdesk@princeton.edu (609) 258-4820 Lewis Science Library This library supports teaching and research in Astrophysics, Biology, Chemistry, Geosciences, Mathematics, Neuroscience, Physics, and Psychology, and includes the Map and Geospatial Information Center. Website Lewis Library lewislib@princeton.edu (609) 258-6004 Marquand Art Library Marquand is one of the oldest and most extensive art libraries in America. The collection of some 500,000 volumes covers world art and architecture from antiquity to the present, and includes distinguished rare book holdings. For the next three to five years, McCormick Hall will be undergoing renovation for construction of the new Princeton University Art Museum. Marquand Library’s physical collections are currently available only by advanced request via the library catalog for consultation in two temporary reading rooms in Firestone Library, C Floor. Website Firestone Library marquand@princeton.edu (609) 258-3783 Mendel Music Library The Mendel Music Library holds books, scores, microfilms, and sound and video recordings focused on all aspects of classical, popular, and world music, jazz, and dance, and offers playing and viewing equipment for all media formats. Website Woolworth Center muslib@princeton.edu (609) 258-3230 Mudd Manuscript Library This library houses both the Public Policy Papers collection and the Princeton University Archives, which documents the history of the University, including the activities of students, faculty, alumni, and trustees. Website Mudd Library mudd@princeton.edu (609) 258-6345 ReCAP This library is a high-density, environmentally-controlled shelving facility jointly owned and operated by Princeton, Columbia, Harvard, and New York Public Library. Website ReCAP (609) 258-3388 Special Collections The Department of Special Collections is one of the premier repositories of its kind. Its holdings span five millennia and five continents, and include around 400,000 rare or significant printed works; 30,000 linear feet of textual materials, ranging from cuneiform tablets to contemporary manuscripts; a wealth of prints, drawings, photographs, maps, coins, and other visual materials; the Cotsen Children's Library; and the Princeton University Archives. The recently-gifted Scheide Library is also associated with the Department. Website Firestone Library rbsc@princeton.edu (609) 258-3184 Stokes Library This library maintains course reserve readings for the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs; a core set of journals and reference materials for public and international affairs; and the renowned Ansley J. Coale Population Research Collection. Website Wallace Hall piaprlib@princeton.edu (609) 258-5455 Video Services This library houses videos put on reserve by faculty for their classes. Multi-region DVD, VHS and Blu-Ray viewing equipment are available along with other a/v-related services. A new electronic film room/collaboration area is also available for use by faculty, staff and students. Website Firestone Library VideoServices@princeton.edu (609) 258-0739 Collections Collection Development at Princeton Collections Cotsen Children’s Library CPANDA Digital Collections and Initiatives Dixon Collection and Travel Books Collection Dixon eBooks Firestone Library Reference Collection Government Documents Graphic Arts Collection Historic Maps Collection Industrial Relations Library Latin American Ephemera Collection Manuscripts Division Maps and Geospatial Information Microforms Service Miriam Y. Holden Collection Near East Collections Numeric Data and Statistics Numismatic Collection Papers of Princeton Population Research Collection Public Policy Papers Rare Book Division Scheide Library Scribner Room University Archives Western Americana Collection Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top