Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Wolbach Library Supporting research about the Universe About Contact Resources Initiatives Events Glass Plates FAQ HOME / About Leavitt, H.S. (1905). Measures of Comparison Stars. Small Magellanic Cloud. The John G. Wolbach Library houses both Harvard College Observatory and Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory collections, forming one of the world’s preeminent astronomical collections. The Library's primary collection is comprised of physical and digital materials including books, journals, maps, charts, microforms, and AV resources in astrophysics and related topics in physics, chemistry, applied mathematics, geophysics, and engineering. Wolbach’s special collections include primary sources associated with the institution’s history, as well as archival publications, papers, and objects created by observatories worldwide. The Wolbach Library is also the home of Harvard's Astronomical Photographic Glass Plate Collection. Library Mission We facilitate the creation and sharing of new knowledge by providing resources that respond to, and anticipate, challenges that impact the astronomy community. Principles and Priorities The below principles and priorities shape the Library's work and guide how staff build, organize, manage, house, and preserve collections of physical and digital artifacts. Guiding Principles Conversation: The Wolbach Library will work to foster conversation among members of the community and actively engage in those conversations to provide resources that meet the community’s continually changing and diverse needs. Ownership: The Wolbach Library is a shared resource for all members of the astrophysics community. Community members are invited to contribute their ideas about how the Library can develop collections that help meet their scholarly and personal goals. Adaptability: The Wolbach Library will maintain a willingness to adapt to the community’s needs and to enable discovery, sharing, and publication of all research outputs. Support: The Wolbach Library will support the community by providing resources that lower technical and social barriers that impact the future of astronomy research. Humanity: Astronomy is a human endeavor, and the Wolbach Library sees people as the most valuable resource at the CfA. The Library therefore prioritizes people and astronomers’ human needs when making decisions about our collections, services, and projects. Priorities Facilitate research about the Universe Lower technical and social barriers that negatively impact the astronomy community Promote and amplify the astronomy community’s contemporary and historic work Develop projects and priorities that challenge Library staff to excel at an international level Seek strategic collaborations that sustain Library programs, services, and projects Enable scientific advancement through outreach and training programs About History Staff Directory Hours & Location Collections Tours Reproduction Requests Policies and Procedures Blog c19379d01115b16a2fafdc5e745dae97 Harvard Terms of Use | Smithsonian Terms of Use | Acknowledgements| Intranet Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement