Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Faculty Commons Room 548 Faculty Commons Room 548 Page featured image content Page main body content In 2017 the Libraries distributed a survey to faculty for input on needs. Faculty comments indicated that it would be valuable to have a centrally located meeting space that was welcoming to all and encouraged cross-disciplinary collaboration. The survey was followed in 2018 by several focus groups where faculty created models using elements they wanted in a “Faculty Commons,” such as soft seating, meeting rooms and work areas. The Faculty Commons, Room 548 in Bird Library, opened for faculty use on Monday, January 24, 2022. It is set up with temporary furniture for the spring semester. Currently, faculty must bring their own equipment and supplies to work. However, the space will be fully outfitted with permanent furniture and technology equipment, such as workstations, printers, and video-conferencing equipment, in the summer of 2022. All Syracuse University designated faculty (including adjunct and emeriti) will have access to the space. It is not available for use by SUNY-ESF faculty, graduate students, PhD candidates, or teaching assistants. Accessing Faculty Commons The Faculty Commons Room 548 is accessible by swiping your RFID enabled Syracuse University ID card. The RFID ID cards feature a picture of the Stadium and Hendricks Chapel. If you have an old ID card, you will need to update to a new RFID-enabled ID card via the online ID Card Services Issue/ Replacement Form. You will not be charged to replace an old or damaged card if you indicate such and turn the old card in. Card access is controlled by ID Services, not the Libraries. The 5,000 square foot space is available for gathering, meeting, and working independently or with colleagues across campus. There are individual workspaces, small gathering spaces, some soft seating, and meeting rooms. Reserving a Room Faculty can reserve one of three private meeting/conference rooms through a self-service room reservation system. Please be considerate of your fellow faculty members. Unlike other library meeting rooms, there is no key for use of the Faculty Commons meeting rooms. They will be unlocked. If there is high demand for meeting rooms, please limit your reservation to one three-hour slot per day. Please be courteous and vacate the room at the end of your reservation time, and please leave the room as you found it. For other Libraries meeting rooms, use the Libraries’ Reserve a Room. Right aside items Related Links Reserve a Faculty Commons Room Replace ID Card Login Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.