CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Exhibitions and Digital Assets The primary mission of Avery's special collections is to provide scholarly research support, object-based instruction and general access to students, faculty, and interested outside parties. In keeping with these goals, Art Properties (Columbia’s art collection); Avery Classics (rare books); and Drawings & Archives also have robust publication and exhibition loan programs supported by the services described below. External Exhibition loans As a result of the coronavirus pandemic and associated constraints, Avery is not accepting any requests for new exhibition loans until January 2022. We appreciate your understanding. The Avery Library has an active exhibition loan program and we are pleased to regularly work with domestic and international institutions to facilitate loans ranging in size from individual objects up to several hundred at a time. The minimum lead time for the majority of our loans is one year. Borrowers must provide museum-standard facility reports and proof of insurance, and are responsible for all costs related to the loan, including (but not limited to): loan fees; object conservation; imaging; matting, framing, object mounts; packing, crating, transportation; and courier expenses. For additional information about Avery's exhibition loan program, please write to: averyregistrar@library.columbia.edu. For inquiries about borrowing specific collection materials, please write to the relevant department: Art Properties: artproperties@library.columbia.edu Avery Library Books & Journals: avery@library.columbia.edu Avery Classics (rare books): avery-classics@library.columbia.edu Avery Drawings & Archives: avery-drawings@library.columbia.edu Digital Imaging Avery policy is to provide the digital files representing our collection materials in exhibition and publication. High resolution files are created by our Digital Imaging Studio and the minimum turnaround from receipt of payment to file delivery is 8 weeks. Pricing begins at $50 per item and final costs depend on the size of the original as well as the intended output. Please see Digital Imaging Services for additional information. Rights and Reproductions Researchers, publishers, editors and curators regularly request the use of special collections materials in publication and exhibition. For all representations of Avery materials there are important considerations regarding copyrights and credit lines. As a general rule rights are not transferred to Avery when a collection is acquired and only rarely do we have contact information for rights holders. It is the patron’s responsibility to clear all rights for works under copyright protection. Credit lines vary by department and collection and must be confirmed by Avery staff. Please direct any questions regarding rights for Avery materials to: averyregistrar@library.columbia.edu. For additional information about copyright law as it relates to education, research, and scholarship, visit the CUL Copyright Advisory Services website Sidebar Avery Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 300 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue M.C. 0301 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-6199 E-mail: avery@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Avery Library Links About Staff Related Links Avery Friends Avery Store Avery Library Blog Public Outdoor Sculpture at Columbia blog CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.