About OCRA | Course Reserves FAQ & Help Brown University Library Services: Frequently Asked Questions Course Reserves (OCRA) and Streaming Media FAQ Where do I get help? New to OCRA? Student Access to E-Reserves Streaming Media Linking E-Reserves in Canvas Copyright Guidelines WHERE DO I GET HELP? For questions or assistance in using E-Reserves contact Rock-Reserves@brown.edu. For questions regarding physical films, please contact rock-reserves@brown.edu. For questions on your Canvas link to OCRA E-Reserves and to the Online Movies playlist within, contact your Instructional Technologist or email dld@brown.edu. For specific questions regarding Online Movies availability and playback contact movies@brown.edu. For assistance with login or other technical problems contact ocra-help@brown.edu. If you're having trouble downloading PDFs using Chrome please review this page, which provides a workaround for this known Chrome issue. NEW TO OCRA? Question: How do I request my course reserves in OCRA? Go to https://library.brown.edu/reserves/ Click the “Faculty/Deputy Login” button, enter your AuthID and password. If you are an instructor, you will see “Manage My Reserves” The initial screen also has options: For instructors to assign new deputies For deputies to request assignment as a deputy If you are a deputy, you will see a list of instructors for whom you are established as a deputy After clicking the “Manage Reserves” link , the OCRA main menu allow you to: Create a new class in OCRA Reactivate a class from a previous semester Add reserves to an existing or upcoming class Select the type of material you wish to add and follow the steps to identify the resource. Beginning with the Spring 2016 semester, Electronic resources will be given strong preference over print titles in all regards. We will purchase digital books and licenses both for new titles and those Brown may already own in print as necessary and when available. Books Add physical BOOKS (and requests for ebook purchases) to be placed on reserve in the libraries. The library may need to impose a limit on the number of print titles held on Reserve for any given course. Please limit selections to required texts only. This service change is only applicable to the Rockefeller Library as a reserves unit location. Online readings Request for permanent links or scans of journal articles, book chapters, licensed e-books or other **ONLINE TEXT**. If the Library does not own the text, you must provide a PDF or photocopy to the Library to scan and upload. Entire movies Request ENTIRE MOVIES: online screenings (VFNow) in Canvas AND physical media (videocassettes, DVDs) in the libraries. Audio Request digitized AUDIO files. Text and audio analog material are digitized by Library staff; video formats are digitized by Academic Technology staff Add all your materials, submit your requests, and preview the student view You are responsible for adding the link to your E-reserves in your Canvas site by following the instructions at: http://brown.edu/go/canvas-ereserves Please note that it may take up to 2 weeks to process your Course Reserves list. Can I reactivate reserves from a course I taught at Brown in the past? Yes, you can reactivate classes previously entered into OCRA. Once you login, you will see your current and inactive courses. After you choose a semester, you can select a new course number and title. Can I reactivate reserves from a course a colleague taught, and which I am now teaching? Yes. The previous instructor can transfer control of the course to you. Contact libweb@brown.edu for assistance with this. How do I check the status of my reserve list (books, PDFs, movies, …)? Check the “View & Edit Reserves List” (top right of your OCRA course). Can I have someone else do my OCRA requests for me? Yes. You can assign a deputy by logging into the OCRA site. Will OCRA get all necessary permissions for my reserve materials? No. Faculty members are responsible for obtaining any necessary permission for reserves materials prior to uploading materials onto OCRA or delivering those materials to Library personnel to upload onto OCRA. If in the judgement of the faculty member, the use of a copyrighted work can be considered Fair Use, a checklist is provided in OCRA where the faculty member may get assistance in making this decision. Library staff members are knowledgeable in this area and are available to assist faculty to prepare and process permissions requests prior to including materials in course reserves. I need help getting my materials scanned/digitized/uploaded. Requests for all formats are made using OCRA. Library staff will digitize library-owned text or audio materials if permission has been granted, or if the excerpts meet Fair Use Guidelines. If you own an authorized (e.g. published) copy of the work, library staff will digitize from it. Media Services in CIS Academic Technology digitizes video requests submitted through OCRA. STUDENT ACCESS TO COURSE RESERVES How do students find electronic reserve material? OCRA has a stand-alone interface that displays electronic reserves to students. You can add your e-Reserves link to your Canvas class by following the instructions at: http://brown.edu/go/canvas-ereserves How do students find physical reserve material? Books and other physical reserves are listed in Josiah—a link to which is on your courses’ OCRA listing and at http://josiah.brown.edu. Can students access reserves outside of Canvas? Yes. They can find online reserve materials at https://library.brown.edu/reserves/. Physical reserves are listed in Josiah. STREAMING MEDIA How do I request that a movie be digitized for streaming? Submit requests for digitization using OCRA. Go to https://library.brown.edu/reserves/. For more information see “Learn About Online Movies (OCRA)”. What if a movie is available on KANOPY? Kanopy offers over 8500 films, documentaries, and training videos at: http://brown.kanopystreaming.com. To add a KANOPY title to OCRA, use the “Online Resources” section of the faculty interface. Select “Link to Web Site (include links to Kanopy movies here).” To learn more about Kanopy see: https://brown.kanopystreaming.com/help and Instructions on creating clips and playlists. How can students view movies? Students have access to all movies from your Canvas course Media Library. The Media Library is activated by Media Services and is visible on the left navigation of your Canvas. In case you don't use Canvas, once in the course reserves list, students click "Entire Movies" for digitized movies or "Online Movies (Kanopy)" for links to streaming movies licensed by the library. Where are the movies physically located? The Rockefeller Library or the Library Collections Annex. If my movie doesn’t play, who do I contact? Please contact the Brown HELP Desk. Can I review my list of films in OCRA before I reactivate my course? No, you must reactivate your course in order to see the films requested. In the beginning of the semester, it can take up to 10 business days for your old movies to be reactivated. Once reactivated, you may go to “View and Edit Reserve List” to review your movie status (i.e., pending versus online). When I reactivate my movie list, do I need to change the screening dates? Not necessarily, but you should contact movies@brown.edu if you need a film available right away. Reactivations may take up to 10 business days. Who do I contact for questions about Movies? For specific questions regarding Online Movies availability and playback contact movies@brown.edu. For questions about activating your e-Reserves link to Canvas and on access to the Online Movies playlist within, contact your Instructional Technologist or email dld@brown.edu. CANVAS How do I add a Course Reserves link to my Canvas site? The first step is to set up your reserves via OCRA. Once the reserves are ready, please follow the instructions at: http://brown.edu/go/canvas-ereserves to activate your e-Reserves link on Canvas. The Library web site (http://library.brown.edu) also has a link to OCRA for students and faculty to access course reserve materials. How do I view movies in Canvas? By clicking on the Media Library. You may also add the E-Reserves button to Canvas (see above). Then click on the E-reserves button in your left course navigation to see the “Go to Films” button from OCRA. How do I activate my E-Reserves Link on Canvas? By following the instructions at: http://brown.edu/go/canvas-ereserves. How do I add users so they can access my E-Reserves and Online Movies? Contact dld@brown.edu.