Off-Campus Access | Library A–Z | Hours & Locations Search: Search BruKnow Library Website WorldCat Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Brown University Library Collections Language & Literature, Non-Western Collections Select a different subject group Africana Alcohol and Addiction Studies American Culture and Society Art and Architecture Asian Studies Author Collections Book Arts Brown University Archives & History Business Children's Literature Disability Studies Early Printed Books Economics Education European Studies Fine and Decorative Arts Gender and Sexuality Studies Graphic Arts History (Non-United States) History (United States) History of Medicine History of Science, Mathematics, Technology Iberia, Latin America, and Latino Indigenous Studies Language & Literature, Non-Western LGBTQ Literature (Non-United States) Literature (United States) Magic and Occult Manuscript Collections Middle Eastern Studies Military History and Iconography Museum Objects Collections Performing Arts Political Science Printing and Publishing History Race and Ethnicity Religion Rhode Island/Local Interest Russia and Eastern Europe Science Fiction and Fantasy South Asia Women Return to Collections A to Z Index Bing Ling's Gift Books The Bing Ling's Gift Books & Chinese Writers' Signature Collection includes approx.1,000 volumes of Chinese books donated by Bing Ling (Mr. Weimin Jiang), Chairman of the Association for Chinese Writers in the US and other Chinese writers in China, United States and Europe. The collection contains books donated from Bing Ling's personal library and more than 100 other Chinese writers. These authors with their signatures on the books includes a number of most prominent Chinese writers. These gift books are a valuable special collection in Chinese literature for Brown's library resources. ...more information East Asian The East Asian Collection was developed from the "Gardner Collection," a special collection of approx. 30,000 volumes of Chinese books donated by the noted Harvard Sinologist, Charles Sidney Gardner in the 1960s. As of June 30, 2010, the Collection holds 119,131 volumes in Chinese, 23,067 volumes in Japanese, and 6,200 volumes in Korean, in addition to 282 current serials, electronic resources and other formats. The total C-J-K book holdings are 148,398 volumes in East Asian languages. Besides, there are also a good number of Western language materials on East Asian studies. It has been one the most distinguished mid-sized East Asian collections in North America. ...more information Gardner Brown Library's East Asian Collection grew out of the Gardner Collection when the noted Harvard Sinologist, Charles Sidney Gardner donated to Brown University approximately 30,000 volumes, the majority in Chinese in 1961. The original Gardner gift was especially rich in works on Chinese history and literature, especially Qing dynasty history which was Professor Gardner's specialty. Most of the works from his library were published in the 1880s, with some dating as early as the beginning eighteenth century and others as late as the 1930s. The holdings cover the areas of language, literature, history, philosophy, religion, art, archaeology, and social sciences. The essential part of the Gardner Collection is located on the third floor of the Rockefeller Library. There are Chinese traditional styled bookcases built in 1969 surrounding three sides of the wall of the Gardner Room. About 93 titles of Chinese rare books (mostly published between 17th and 19th centuries), are stored in eight Cabinets. These titles are all traditionally bound and in very good conditions. The bookcases are designed perfectly match the size and style of volumes inside, which becomes one of valuable treasures of Brown University Library. It is a unique book room with special bookcases in North America. ...more information Palm Leaf Manuscripts The Rev. Dr. Josiah Nelson Cushing, Class of 1862, was a missionary to the Shan people of British-occupied Burma and a noted linguist who translated the Bible into the Shan dialect and compiled a Shan-English dictionary. In 1881 he presented a complete set of the Tipitaka, the canonical text of Buddhism and many manuscripts written on painted and lacquered palm leaves. ...more information Persian Miniature Paintings Miniature paintings from the estate of Mrs. Adrienne Minassian. The paintings often include text from Persian and Indian tales. ...more information Pingree (David E.) The late David E. Pingree chaired the Department of History of Mathematics at Brown, and acquired a scholarly reputation of international renown from his own research into the history of mathematics and the exact sciences. In the course of his research, he compiled a research collection of books, pamphlets and manuscripts (many in photocopy format)in a variety of languages, some exceedingly rare and others found nowhere else in North America. The collection comprises more than 22,000 items, and is a remarkable resource for the study of mathematics in the ancient world. Its special focus on India and the relationship of Eastern mathematics to the development of mathematics and related disciplines in the West makes it of unique and particular importance for the study of the history of science. ...more information Scott Library A collection of 1,000 volumes in Icelandic, Pali, and Sanskrit formerly belonging to Dr. Adrian Scott, Class of 1872, was presented to the Library in 1914 by his classmates. ...more information Wheaton International Law The Wheaton Collection on International Law, established and developed by William V. Kellen, Class of 1872 and George Grafton Wilson, a faculty member at Brown.. The collection, named in honor of Henry Wheaton, Class of 1802, a major figure in the field of international law, and author of Elements of International law. The collection, now including over 4,000 volumes holds many important books, particularly early editions of Grotius and Pufendorf. It also includes an unusually complete collection of general treatises on international law in English and foreign languages; fairly complete documentations for international arbitrations, the League of Nations, and the Permanent Court of International Justice; complete files of the more important international law periodicals for the 19th and early 20th centuries; a large collection of diplomatic pamphlets, and manuy volumes of diplomatic law and diplomatic correspondence. List available ...more information Image Source: The Kammavaca. Painted and lacquered manuscript palm leaves written in the Pali language using Burmese script. 18th century. Rare Book Collection. Gift of Rev. Dr. J. N. Cushing, Class of 1862. Return to Collections A to Z Index Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet