Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. Wichita State University Libraries LibGuides Library Website About the Libraries Branches and Units Enter Search Words Search About the Libraries Branches and Units Contact Us! (Directory Info) Directions & Parking Employment Events and Workshops Faculty Handbook Gifts & Friends of the Library Hours Library Displays Library Policies Mission, Vision, Values & Strategic Plan Spaces Ablah Library Floor Guide A-Z Building Map Campus Map Parking Map Ablah Library Building Fun facts Ablah Library building size: 157,924 square feet Construction date: 1962, addition added in 1989 Edmiston 24-Hour Study Room added: 1999 KGS Networked Seminar Complex dedicated 2005 Miles of shelving: 28 Seating capacity: 800 Group study rooms: 20 Faculty carrels and individual focus rooms: 28 Public use computers/scholar's workstations: 153 Ablah Library (main library) Ablah Library serves as the main library facility for WSU. As a primary research resource, we strive to support faculty and student needs. Administration Circulation Collection Development Electronic Resources Government Documents Interlibrary Loan Library Technologies Patents & Trademarks Research and Instructional Services Reserve Special Collections & University Archives Technical Services McKinley Chemistry Library The McKinley Chemistry Library, a branch of the Wichita State University Libraries, is located on the first floor of McKinley Hall. Learn more about the Chemistry Library on the Chemistry Library page. Thurlow Lieurance Music Library / MALIC The Thurlow Lieurance Memorial Music Library is located in the Music and Languages Innovation Center (MALIC), in Jardine Hall, room 313, along with the Savaiano-Cress Language Lab. Learn more on the Music Library home page. Welcome to Ablah Library Next: Contact Us! (Directory Info) >> Last Updated: May 31, 2022 9:56 AM URL: https://libraries.wichita.edu/AboutWSULibraries Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem Wichita State University Libraries, 1845 Fairmount, Wichita, KS 67260-0068 | Phone: (316) 978-3481 | Comments/Suggestions |