Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box » Libraries Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Want to search for books, journals, and articles instead? Exit Search Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving My Account Make a Gift Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving MY ACCOUNT About Wherever you go at OSU, you find people working on challenging problems, and trying to make the world around us smarter, healthier, more sustainable and more just. At the Oregon State University Libraries and Press, we are driven to create services and spaces that help students, faculty and staff — across all of OSU’s units and colleges — achieve these goals. At OSULP, we believe that our contributions are rooted in the relationships we build. As a library and press, we occupy a unique place in the university, one that allows us to reach across disciplinary boundaries and organizational structures. OSULP includes the Valley Library in Corvallis, routinely selected by students as the Best Place to Study on Campus, and the Guin Library, the intellectual heart of the Hatfield Marine Science Center campus in Newport. The Special Collections and Archives Research Center houses rare and unique materials, including notable collections in the history of science and technology, cultural and ethnic groups in Oregon, Northwest hops and brewing, natural resources and university history. And our award winning University Press has been publishing exceptional books about the Pacific Northwest since 1961. Menu About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving Did You Know? In 2018-2019, the OSU Libraries and Press engaged in an OSULP Community Interviewing Project to collect and preserve institutional knowledge about OSULP by gathering the stories of those who work here. The Northwest Art Collection is a notable collection of more than 140 pieces of contemporary Northwest artwork that is on permanent display throughout the library, including works by past and current OSU art faculty members. OSU Libraries and Press engages in multiple efforts that demonstrate our commitment to creating a more sustainable world. For example, the Valley Library provides bins for users and staff to sort out compostable and recyclable materials in order to reduce waste going to the landfill. OSU Press published Gathering Moss, the first book from best-selling author Robin Wall Kimmerer, in 2003 and it remains our best-selling book. As of 2021, it is in its 17th printing and has been translated into a half dozen different languages. While visiting the Guin Library at the Hatfield Marine Science Center in Newport, you might hear the sea lions bark from right outside the front door. The Guin Library once flooded because seagulls threw seashells into the roof’s drainage system. Contact Info 121 The Valley Library Corvallis OR 97331–4501 541-737-3331 Contact Us Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Flickr Twitter Instagram In The Valley Library Oregon State University Press Special Collections and Archives Research Center Undergrad Research & Writing Studio Graduate Student Commons Tutoring Services Student Multimedia Studio Northwest Art Collection Child Care Digital Projects Oregon Explorer Oregon Digital ScholarsArchive@OSU Digital Publishing Initiatives Atlas of the Pacific Northwest Branches Marilyn Potts Guin Library Cascades Campus Library McDowell Library of Vet Medicine Federal Depository Library Program Make a Gift