Off-Campus Access | Library A–Z | Hours & Locations Search: Search BruKnow Library Website WorldCat Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Brown University Library Collections LGBTQ Collections Select a different subject group Africana Alcohol and Addiction Studies American Culture and Society Art and Architecture Asian Studies Author Collections Book Arts Brown University Archives & History Business Children's Literature Disability Studies Early Printed Books Economics Education European Studies Fine and Decorative Arts Gender and Sexuality Studies Graphic Arts History (Non-United States) History (United States) History of Medicine History of Science, Mathematics, Technology Iberia, Latin America, and Latino Indigenous Studies Language & Literature, Non-Western LGBTQ Literature (Non-United States) Literature (United States) Magic and Occult Manuscript Collections Middle Eastern Studies Military History and Iconography Museum Objects Collections Performing Arts Political Science Printing and Publishing History Race and Ethnicity Religion Rhode Island/Local Interest Russia and Eastern Europe Science Fiction and Fantasy South Asia Women Return to Collections A to Z Index ACT UP Rhode Island The ACT UP Rhode Island (AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power) records contain minutes of meetings, correspondence, financial records, reports, booklets, handbooks, pamphlets, clippings, mailings, newsletters, conference material, publications, lists of members and contacts, ACT UP/RI circulars and posters, photographs and clippings of ACT UP demonstrations, documentation of Rhode Island legislation, regulations, and policies concerning AIDS. Also included are AIDS-related materials from other ACT UP groups, especially New York, and various gay and lesbian groups, both in Rhode Island and nationally. Topical files document developments in AIDS treatment, public health issues, government policy, AIDS activism, and various gay/lesbian issues. There are also three painted plywood panels and one cloth banner in the collection. ...more information Africana Studies / Rites and Reason Theatre The dates for the Africana Studies / Rites and Reason Theatre collection ranges from 1970 to 2006. This collection consists of nine series which focus on the growth and development of not only the Department of Africana Studies, but on the growth of the Rites and Reason Theatre. ...more information Barlow (Tani E.) This collection consists of the personal and professional papers of Tani E. Barlow, the George and Nancy Rupp Professor of Humanities and Director of the Chao Center for Asian Studies at Rice University. The collection documents Barlow's personal life and academic career and research interests of feminism, postcoloniality, and women's history in Asia, specifically in China. ...more information Barrett (Ellen M.) Ellen M. Barrett, a scholar specializing in medieval monastic history, was the first openly gay person, and one of the earliest women, to be ordained priest in the Episcopal Church. Beginning in 1975, when she was ordained deacon, through 1977 when she was ordained priest, the collection documents her path to ordination and the far reaching international reaction to her ordination. The collection covers her subsequent, nearly thirty-year career as priest in the Episcopal Church and her eventual postulancy in an Anglican women's monastic community. ...more information Berlant (Lauren) The Lauren Berlant papers document her interest in the mechanisms of power relating to juridical and institutional "boundary-drawing" between public and private, white and non-white, and other types of socio-political relationships. These papers consist of diverse artifacts including published articles, unpublished creative-writing (poetry and prose), correspondence, conference notes, photographs, ephemera, syllabi and documents of relevance to her research and pedagogy on gender, sexuality, race and feminist theory. Many of the documents found in this collection are heavily annotated copies of Berlant's teaching materials for her courses on Afro-American Women Writers, Early American Novel, and Feminism and the Public Sphere. While many of the documents of Berlant's papers are photocopies of 19th and 20th century texts, the collection mainly consists of her work on feminism, gender, sexuality, and race from the 1980s to the early 2000s. ...more information Bornstein (Kate) This collection consists of the papers of Kate Bornstein, performer, playwright, author, and transgender activist who graduated from Brown University as Albert Bornstein in 1969. The collection documents Bornstein's personal and professional life and trans activism, and includes biographical information, correspondence, diaries, conference material, draft writings, writings by other authors, subject files, print material, ephemera, photographs, and electronic records dating from 1910-2018. The Bornstein papers were curated by the Nancy L. Buc '65 Pembroke Center Archivist on behalf of the Christine Dunlap Farnham Archive and the John Hay Library. ...more information Brennan (Teresa) The Teresa Brennan papers contain a broad range of materials dating between 1965 and 2002. Letters, research notes, institution building materials, syllabi, lecture notes, manuscript drafts, and other such material comprise the largest component of this collection. The papers are arranged into seven series, some with multiple subseries. ...more information Capone, Clifford Photographs, correspondence, playbills, and playscripts used and created during the career of Clifford Capone who was a costume designer for theater productions and movies based in New York City. He worked for film directors Woody Allen and Gordon Willis among others. ...more information Dickson (James C.) These papers document the career of James C. Dickson (Class of 1968) as an activist and organizer for disabled individuals, primarily with the VOTE! 2000 Campaign, an effort to increase the number of voters with disabilities. Includes materials Dickson used in his efforts to increase the voting rights of disabled persons and their access to polling places. The materials contain information on poll accessibility, black voters, gay and lesbian voters, voting statistics, the motor voter law, election reforms, methods of voting, and the registration of potential voters when they apply for food stamps, Medicaid or a driver's license. Also consists of material documenting other organizing efforts involving the rights of children, especially children with disabilities, and the medical care of the elderly and people with disabilities. ...more information Feminist Theory Archive The Feminist Theory Archive collection consists of links to the manuscript collections that are processed and available for research as part of the Feminist Theory Archive. The collection is arranged in one series, alphabetically by the last name of the donor to the Feminist Theory Archive. By clicking on the links included in this finding aid, researchers will be redirected to the corresponding online finding aids for individual collections. ...more information Gay Pulp Fiction A growing collection of over 4,700 volumes of gay men's pulp fiction. They range in date from 1933-1997 with the bulk published during 1953-1997. A small number of lesbian-interest titles are included. The collection began with the acquisition of a large private collection and has been supplemented with various purchases and gifts by works from two other collections of gay literature, the Scott O'Hara Papers, and the James Jackson bequest. See searchable database. Stored off-site. ...more information Gaylactic Network The Gaylactic Network records consist of administrative records, newsletters, correspondence and promotional material for the years 1986-2005 pertaining to and were compiled by Franklin Hummel. The collection covers the activities of both the Gaylactic Network and most of its local member organizations, as well as their annual conference Gaylaxicon. ...more information Glass (Jodi L.) The Jodi Glass papers provide rich documentation of the inner workings of feminist organizations and movements in Rhode Island and beyond. Included in the collection are the correspondence, essays, news clippings, legislation, agendas, and minutes of a number of groups and movements, including the Rhode Island Feminist Chorus, Feminist Resources Unlimited and the anti-pornography movement. ...more information Gund (Catherine) This collection contains the professional and activist files of Catherine Gund, film and television producer, director, writer, and activist whose work focuses on AIDS and the LGBTQIA+ community. Gund is the founder of Aubin Pictures, a nonprofit documentary film company, and a member of the Brown University class of 1988. Materials include correspondence, clippings, and handwritten notes from Gund’s consultancy and board work; research, production, and post-production materials for various films and television shows by Gund; and magazines, newspapers, journals and zines. Materials date from 1971 to 2000. ...more information Harris Collection of American Poetry and Plays The Harris Collection of American Poetry and Plays is composed of approximately 250,000 volumes of American and Canadian poetry, plays, and vocal music dating from 1609 to the present day. It is perhaps the largest and most comprehensive collection of its kind in any research library. The works of most well-known (and many thousands of little-known) American and Canadian poets and playwrights, from the 18th century to the present day, are held comprehensively. There are significant holdings of early American literature, hymnals, songsters, little magazines, contemporary fine printing, extensive collections on Walt Whitman and Edgar Allan Poe, women's writings, gay and lesbian literature, modern first editions, Yiddish-American literature, and French-Canadian literature. The Collection is fully cataloged, with records available in Josiah, the Library's online catalog.. Includes periodicals, broadsides, recordings, films, electronic resources, manuscripts, prints and photographs. ...more information Jackson (James) Approximately 1,900 titles in the area of gay/lesbian literature, much of it dating from the pre-Stonewall era. The Jackson Collection contains many titles not proviously owned by Brown and virtually all are in very good condition and retain their dust jackets. There are a quite a few lesbian-related titles which fills in a gap in our existing holdings and quite a few gay-related science fiction and fantasy titles which complement one of existing collection strengths. Quite a few of the books are signed or inscribed, this being particularly true of the post-Stonewall titles. ...more information Japanese LGBTQ+ Magazine Collection of magazines published in Japan by and for the LGBTQ+ communities. The collection currently consists of 18 periodicals published between 1952 to 2019. It includes several rare titles of members-only publications, community magazines for crossdressers as well as magazines of sexual customs that predate Japan's first commercially circulated gay magazine Barazoku. ...more information Johnson (Barbara) This collection consists of the personal and professional papers of Barbara Johnson, American literary critic and scholar of deconstruction, psychoanalysis, and queer theory. The collection documents Johnson's personal life, academic career, research, and writing, and is composed of biographical materials, correspondence, syllabi, handwritten notes, research articles, and writing drafts, dating from 1971-2009. ...more information Kamuf (Peggy) Papers of Peggy Kamuf (b. 1947), Marion Frances Chevalier Professor in the Department of French and Italian at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles. The collection documents Kamuf's professional career and scholarship in comparative literature and literary theory. Items include drafts of published articles, lectures, and books such as The Division of Literature, or the University in Deconstruction (1997), Book of Addresses (2009), and To Follow: The Wake of Jacques Derrida (2010). Kamuf is not only a leading translator of Helène Cixous, Jean-Luc Nancy, and Derrida’s works, but she also studies, writes, and lectures about Rousseau, Woolf, Baudelaire, and Stendhal. ...more information Katzoff (Richard G.) The collection, named in honor of Richard G. Katzoff and housed in the John Hay Library at Brown University, consists primarily of literary works relating to gays and lesbians, with a small component of history and sociology; most are U.S. publications. The core of the Collection is the gift of books, primarily novels dating from the 1970s and 1980s, received in 1991 from the estate of Richard Katzoff, supplemented by the library and personal writings of John Preston, journalist, author and editor of gay literature (the Library also houses Preston's papers). In addition, the Collection includes the publications of Larry Townsend (sadomasochistic fiction and pictorial erotica), many books from the library of Edmund White, an extensive collection of contemporary lesbian fiction, and many other smaller donations of gay and lesbian writings. Materials continue to be added to the Collection by gift and purchase; an endowment has been established for that purpose by the Katzoff family. More recent acquisitions include the Gay Pulp Fiction collection containing over 4,700 titles of gay pulp fiction published between 1933-1997 with the bulk created during 1953-1997. ...more information Kiernan, Caitlín Caitlín Rebekah Kiernan is a science fiction writer and vertebrate paleontologist who has published novels, short stories, comics, and scientific articles. In addition to the books and stories she has published, Kiernan also worked with DC Comics to complete a sixty-issue series of comics called The Dreaming during 1997-2001. She publishes Sirenia Digest which is an online "monthly journal of the weirdly erotic." She also contributes entries most days to her blog which began on November 23, 2001 as "Grey Girl Beast" and then renamed as "Dear Sweet Filthy World" (https://greygirlbeast.livejournal.com/). Between 1996 and 1997, Kiernan was the vocalist and lyricist for a "goth-folk-blues band," called Death's Little Sister based in Athens, Georgia. This collection contains her handwritten journal from childhood and other juvenilia, drafts of comics, edited manuscripts of novels and short stories, correspondence with fiction editors, correspondence with paleontologists, manuscripts and journals of paleontology work, her desktop computer, and collectibles from the band Death's Little Sister. ...more information Kikel (Rudy) These papers represent a comprehensive portrait of Rudy Kikel, a distinguished gay poet, scholar, and journalist, and a staunch supporter of gay and lesbian writers and artists. Kikel was also the arts and entertainment editor for Bay Windows, New England's leading LGBT weekly, beginning in 1983 when it was first established until he retired in 2004. This collection consists of a variety of materials, the bulk of which date from the early 1960s to 2004. It includes an extensive compilation of manuscripts of Kikel's poetry, copies of his scholarly and professional writings, an assortment of significant LGBT periodicals, and correspondence from many acclaimed gay poets, including Thom Gunn, Richard Howard, Felice Picano, Paul Monette, and James Merrill, to cite just a few. ...more information Krongelb (Malana) The Malana Krongelb zine collection consists of administrative files and zines that focus on social justice and marginalized identities, dating from 1974 to 2018. Areas of strength include zines by and about people of color, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and other queer peoples, disabled people, interpersonal violence, sex and relationships, sex work, the prison industrial complex, self-care, feminism, and punk. ...more information Lawson (Todd S. J.) Todd S. J. Lawson was an accomplished mid-to-late twentieth century gay writer of both prose and poetry, a small press publisher and editor, and a journalist. This collection consists of a variety of materials, the bulk of which dates from the early 1970s to the mid-1980s, and includes manuscripts, correspondence, print materials, business records, and a small collection of photographs and ephemeral materials. In addition to a substantial collection of manuscripts mainly from Lawson's own writings, it includes a significant number of printing proofs, and an interesting collection of scattered issues, including a few historic titles, from a variety of small press periodicals. ...more information McLoughlin (William Gerald) Professor William Gerald McLoughlin taught history at Brown University from 1954-1992 and was an active and vocal participant professionally and personally in all of the issues and events during those years: freedom of speech, civil rights, racial equality, gender equality (Louis Lamphere sex discrimination case), nuclear energy, improving the Providence education system, the Vietnam War, divestment from South Africa, and US intervention in Nicaragua during the 1980s. His papers are particularly useful for studying the changes in America and their effect s at Brown University during his tenure. His major areas of scholarship were religion in America (particularly Baptists and Evangelicals), the Cherokee Indian Nation, antislavery movement, African Americans, and Rhode Island history. This collection contains research notes and subject files for his many research topics, drafts for some of his published books, correspondence with colleagues and friends, minutes for meetings of the various committees at Brown and in the community on which he served, and newspaper clippings for topics of importance to him. ...more information Metcalf (Edward De Forest) Edward De Forest Metcalf (1924-1968) was a Providence writer of poetry and short stories. Metcalf's papers contain numerous drafts and fragments as well as complete literary works. Included in the papers is a compilation Edward De Forest Metcalf's writings that was published after his death by his father, George T. Metcalf. ...more information Middlebrook (Diane) Papers of Diane Middlebrook, biographer, poet, and Professor Emeritus of English at Stanford University. Collection includes correspondence, subject and research files, interview transcripts, manuscript drafts, photographs, and electronic records, primarily relating to her biographical research on Anne Sexton, Sylvia Plath and Ted Hughes, Billy Tipton, and Ovid, between 1958-2008. ...more information NCADD (National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence) Marty Mann (1905-1980) founded NCADD and dedicated her life to teaching the public that alcoholism is a preventable and treatable disease, not a moral failing. The archive comprises 16 record storage boxes containing official and personal correspondence, papers, articles, speeches, brochures, press clippings, field reports, Board minutes, photographs, films, and audio cassettes. (An additional portion of Mann's papers can be found at Syracuse University; the online finding aid for that collection is linked below). NOTE: Researchers using this collection are asked to abide by the Anonymity Guidelines for the Brown University Library AA Collections. ...more information Needmor Fund The Needmor Fund is a family foundation established in Toledo, Ohio in 1956 by Duane and Virginia Stranahan with income from the Champion Spark Plug business. It focuses on funding community organizing efforts to create a more equitable and just society. The records document the activities of the Needmor Fund from the the 1970's to the early 21st century and include correspondence, grant applications, pamphlets, seminar brochures, notes from site visits, speeches, and publications. Within the Needmor Fund Collection, the Kathy Partridge papers include material related to gay and lesbian issues. ...more information O'Hara Literary and personal papers, 1979-1998, of Scott O'Hara (1961-1998), pornographic film actor, author, magazine publisher, also containing publications that include material by or about him. The gay pulp paperbacks acquired as part of this collection are listed in the Gay Pulp Fiction database. ...more information On Our Backs The archive of the lesbian periodical, On Our Backs. The library also holds a run of the periodical. See Josiah record. ...more information Oral history interviews concerning ACT UP of Rhode Island an Oral history interviews conducted in 1993 by Peter Cohen with AIDS activists who were involved with the group ACT UP in Rhode Island and New York. The interviews were used as part of Peter Cohen's dissertation research at Brown University and used extensively in his subsequent publication: Love and Anger: Essays on AIDS, Activism, and Politics (Haworth Press, 1998). ...more information Preston (John) John Preston authored over 30 books, ranging from fiction and erotica to such important non-fiction titles as Personal Dispatches: Writers Confront AIDS and Hometowns: Gay Men Write About Where They Belong. The Preston archive is especially important in that it contains many thousands of letters between Preston and a vast array of authors that comment upon matters both literary and socio-historical. Among Preston's most prolific correspondents was Ann Rice, author of the Vampire Chronicles, whose papers provide insight into the link between straight/gay and erotic/mainstream fiction. ...more information Rhode Island Women's Health Collective The records of the RIWHC include financial, legal, funding, and donor records, mailing lists, newletters and publications relating to women's health issues. ...more information Russell (John C.) The John C. Russell papers are a collection of the late playwright's scripts, notebooks, journals, correspondence, photographs and personal documents, most of them produced during the six years before his death in 1994. ...more information Schor (Naomi) The Naomi Schor papers span the years from 1950-2002 and consist of personal and professional correspondence, literary manuscripts, research and teaching materials, and materials from her professional activities. The collection documents Schor's career as one of the foremost scholars of French literature and critical theory and a pioneer feminist theorist of her generation. ...more information Sharpe (Christina) This collection consists of the papers of Christina Sharpe, Professor of English at York University and notable Black feminist theorist. The collection documents Sharpe's professional life and research in racism, slavery, and feminism, consisting of correspondence, conference material, draft writings, writings by other authors, subject files, and print material, dating from 1989 to the present. ...more information Shawomet Baptist Church The Shawomet Baptist Church was officially organized in 1842 as the Old Warwick Baptist Church. The original congregation of "Six Principle" Baptists combined resources with Regular (Calvinist) Baptists, whose numbers were growing as a result of the Second Great Awakening, to occupy a small meetinghouse on the Warwick Neck peninsula in Rhode Island. In 1851 their name was officially changed to Shawomet Baptist Church. The word Shawomet is the Narragansett Indian name for Warwick Neck. The church closed in 2011. The records include founding documents, publications, meeting minutes, correspondence, financial records, membership lists, club and activity records and photographic materials documenting the 170-year history of the congregation. The bulk of the material covers the period from 1945 through 1999. This is part of the Rhode Island Baptist Heritage Center collection. ...more information Society for Women in Philosophy This collection consists of the records of the Society for Women in Philosophy, an organization established in 1972 to support and promote women in philosophy. The collection includes newsletters, correspondence, and conference materials, dating from 1971 to 2013 and documents the organization on international, national, and regional levels. ...more information Sorrentino (Mary Ann) The Mary Ann Sorrentino papers about her excommunication from the Catholic Church consist of correspondence, clippings, and other materials. These papers relate to the practice of abortion, the authority of the Catholic Church over its members, and general discussion of religion and morality with respect to abortion. The correspondence with Sorrentino (who was Executive Director of Planned Parenthood of Rhode Island from 1977 to 1987) includes responses from proponents of both the pro-choice and pro-life movements, Catholics, non-Catholics, public officials, and others. The collection also includes an oral history interview of Sorrentino recorded in 2012 and a Master of Arts in History thesis written by Rhonda J. Chadwick about Sorrentino's experiences. ...more information Tilly (Louise A.) Louise Tilly, President of the American Historical Association (1993) and the Michael E. Gellert Professor of History and Sociology, New School for Social Research, is an historian who utilizes history and sociology to explore the effects that large-scale social change have on particular constituencies such as women, families, and manual laborers. Much of Tilly's research focuses on how work, food, family systems, and gender were affected by economic and social movements in France and Italy. The Louise A. Tilly papers contain materials ranging from 1960 to 1998, with the bulk of materials dated between 1974 and 1995. This collection of drafts of scholarly papers, research notes and materials, academic department administrative materials, and professional correspondence is arranged into six series. ...more information Walkowitz (Judith R.) This collection consists of the professional papers and research materials of Judith R. Walkowitz, scholar of British and women's history and Professor Emerita of Modern European Cultural and Social History at John Hopkins University. The collection documents Walkowitz's writing and research interests of British nineteenth-century political culture and the cultural and social contests over sexuality. ...more information Williams (Linda) Papers of film studies scholar Linda Williams, Professor Emerita of Film, Media, and Rhetoric at the University of California, Berkeley, including correspondence, research, teaching, and conference material related to the study of pornography, other "body genres," feminist theory, and race in film, among other topics. ...more information Wylie (Alison) This collection consists of the professional papers of Alison Wylie, Professor of Philosophy at the University of British Columbia. Materials include correspondence, reports, handwritten notes, clippings, and drafts documenting Wylie's interest in feminist archaeology, philosophy, gender equity for women professors, and social justice issues affecting women. ...more information Wyllys (Samuel) Annmary Brown Hawkins inherited from her father, Nicholas Brown, a collection of papers compiled by Samuel Wyllys (1631-1709), a Connecticut magistrate and public official who served from 1654 to 1684, along with papers of other members of the Wyllys family. The collection, covering the period from 1638 to 1757 (bulk 1663-1698), comprises half of the original collection; the other portion (covering 1694-1726) was acquired some time ago by the Connecticut State Library from the Estate of John Carter Brown. These early papers pertain to Indian affairs, colonial wars, civil and criminal cases. The witchcraft trials of 1692 to 1693, as revealed in the testimony of witnesses in the Oyer and Terminer Courts, are of particular interest. ...more information Image Source: Gaylactic Network Records, 1986-2005. "Out of the closet and into the universe!" Finding Aid. Return to Collections A to Z Index Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet