CU Home > Libraries Home Search | Site Index | FAQ | Help Digital Collections » Greene & Greene Architectural Records and Papers Collection, ca. 1896-ca. 1963 Finding Aid ~ Image Index The American architectural firm Greene & Greene was a partnership between the brothers Charles Sumner Greene (1868-1957) and Henry Mather Greene (1870-1954). The firm, established in 1894, was officially dissolved in 1922, after which the two practiced independently. They were active in Southern California and were part of the American Arts and Crafts Movement. During the years 1907-1909 the Greenes created some of their most renowned residences, including the Blacker, Gamble, Pratt, and Thorsen houses. They also designed interiors, creating furniture, lighting, carpets, and stained glass for their clients. The Greene & Greene Architectural Records and Papers Collection spans the years ca. 1896 - ca. 1963. The collection chiefly consists of architectural drawings (approximately 5,000) and also includes photographs, personal papers, and other manuscript material. Access to digital images of all the architectural drawings and to selected photographs are provided in the finding aid and through seven indexes: Images, Genre/Form, Geographic, Persons, Subjects, Corporate Names, and Projects. A related online resource is the Greene & Greene Virtual Archive, a collaborative project with selections from the four major Greene & Greene collections: the Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library at Columbia University in the City of New York; the Environmental Design Archives at the University of California, Berkeley (UCB); The Gamble House, University of Southern California (USC), in Pasadena, California; and the Greene and Greene Archives, USC at The Huntington Library in San Marino, California. Avery Library Address Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library 300 Avery 1172 Amsterdam Ave. New York, NY 10027 Telephone: (212) 854-3501 Email avery@libraries.cul.columbia.edu Hours view calendar Browsable Indexes to the Finding Aid Digital Images Genre/Medium Type Geographic Names Personal Names Subject Headings Permissions information © Columbia University Libraries My Library Account | Hours | Contacts | Suggestions