Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Collections Overview Collections Overview Page main body content Our general collections support academic excellence in the research, creative and teaching pursuits of Syracuse University. Our collections cover a wide range of content types, areas of study, languages and time periods and include: Print and online resources in the form of databases and digital collections curated to match campus teaching and research needs, with many of these sources unique to Syracuse University. Journals spanning all periodical types including popular magazines, trade and industry publications, and academic journal literature Extensive and growing collections of eBooks Current and deeply historical news and newspaper archives Statistical data Maps and government information Videos available online and on DVD or Blu-ray discs Music Games, wellness materials and more. Questions or Suggestions? Contact the subject librarian for your area email Collections regarding multidisciplinary journals and databases Suggest a Title Collections Toggle Diversity in Collections Content In accordance with professional best practices outlined by the American Library Association and the Association of College and Research Libraries, Syracuse University Libraries develop diverse, inclusive and accessible collections that support the University’s mission. We build collections that accelerate, enable and enrich teaching, learning, research and creative pursuits. Our collections are tools that enable student success, foster engaged scholarship and encourage active participation in the world through a variety of disciplinary, experiential and methodological lenses. Additionally, the collections provide faculty and instructors with robust opportunities to diversify the materials they select for their curricula. With these goals in mind, we curate a rich record of cultural and scholarly creations that represent and reflect diversity, differences and distinctions in: Audience Author identities Format Geographic locale Models of production and distribution Perspective Subject matter Timeframe or historical period Effort is made to ensure representation of a multiplicity of life experiences, cultures and points of view, including a greater emphasis on those of historically oppressed, underrepresented and underserved groups. We welcome suggestions and feedback at colls@syr.edu from the University community. Toggle Gifts of Books and Other Library Materials Content We appreciate the generosity of those wishing to donate materials to the collections and gladly consider donations of the following materials: Gifts of books written by Syracuse University faculty, staff, students and alumni not currently held in the collection. Unique items in good condition of critical research and instructional interest to the University that are not commercially available and are not currently held in the collection. The Special Collections Research Center reviews donations of unique or rare books, manuscripts, personal papers, Syracuse University related materials and other archival materials of interest to the University and that enhance our special collections. Email the Special Collections Research Center to discuss. Apart from the exceptions above, the Libraries are not able to accept donations of books and other materials. This aligns with our philosophy to prioritize digital content to enable global access to resources and materials. The Libraries' space constraints and the high costs associated with evaluating and processing donated materials are also factors. To discuss possible gifts that meet these criteria, please contact Anne Rauh, Head of Collections and Research Services. Toggle Collections Memberships and Initiatives Content The Syracuse University Libraries are members of: NERL WALDO LYRASIS And support the initiatives related to collections including: CLOCKSS COUNTER EAST HathiTrust HathiTrust Shared Print Program Knowledge Unlatched LOCKSS Portico SCOAP3 TRAIL Toggle Licensed Resources Content We strive to license materials efficiently and consistently with University policies and procurement practices and professional best practices. Our licensing agreements align with Syracuse University Libraries' Licensing Principles. Toggle Publisher and Vendor Information Content Collection librarians schedule vendor visits on Thursday between 2pm and 4pm. Please email colls@syr.edu to schedule a visit. Collection Development For sale opportunities, price quotes, campus visits, training material and marketing material, email colls@syr.edu. Rachel Fox von Swearingen, Collection Development; 315-443-9779, rsfoxvon@syr.edu Anne Rauh, Head of Collections; 315-443-9770, aerauh@syr.edu Acquisitions and Cataloging For invoices, IP range information, billing issues and FTE verification, email libacq@syr.edu Robert Cleary, Head of Acquisitions and Cataloging, 315-443-2989, rmcleary@syr.edu Kelley Lasher, Electronic Resources Librarian, 315-443-6179, kllasher@syr.edu Jennifer Zuccaro, Serial Acquisitions Librarian, 315-443-3562, jzuccaro@syr.edu Program Management Center For usage and login statistics information, email pmc@syr.edu Peter Verheyen, Research and Emerging Issues Analyst, 315-443-9756, pdverhey@syr.edu Billing Address Syracuse University Libraries Acquisitions and Cataloging Department 222 Waverly Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244 Right aside items Related Links Explore Current E-Resource Trials Guide Give Collections Feedback Guide Report an Electronic Resource Issue FORM Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.