CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Columbia Historical Corporate Reports Digitized Annual Reports from Watson Library's Collection About the Collection In 2007 a project was undertaken to digitize a selection of corporate reports from the Columbia Business Library's extensive collection of historical corporate annual reports. The selection targeted corporations that operated in and around New York City. Approximately 36 companies are represented with a total of approximately 770 individual reports (ca. 17,300 pages) ranging from the 1850s through the early 1960s. Access the digitized reports Columbia's digitized Historical Corporate Reports are available through Internet Archive. The collection can be viewed and searched at https://archive.org/details/culcorporatereports&tab=collection. Sample Images Edison Electric Illuminating View of New Station, Pearl St Front (1893) Twelfth St. Station (1895) Edison Lamp Posts (1897) Annex Station at 200 Elm Street (1898) Map of Underground Mains (1898) Hudson & Manhattan Railroad Company Hudson Terminal Buildings (1911) Map of Hudson Tunnel System (1912) Two sources of future revenue (1948) Rebuilt Grove Street Station (1950) Rights & Permissions [1] Columbia University has provided access to these materials for educational and research purposes only. [2] The University does not authorize any use or reproduction whatsoever for commercial purposes. [3] The materials are displayed "as is" and without warranties of any kind, either express or implied, including any warranties of title, non-infringement of copyright or other rights. [4] Materials in the Historical Corporate Reports Online Collection may be protected by copyright law. Materials that are protected by copyright law may be used only with permission from the copyright owner, or within the limits of fair use and other statutory exceptions. Columbia University makes no representation about the copyright status of the materials in the Historical Corporate Reports Collection and cannot give legal advice. [5] If you wish to publish or reproduce materials in the Historical Corporate Reports Online Collection, please see: Columbia University Libraries Publication & Digital Reproduction Policy and Procedures. [6] If you claim copyright ownership of any of the materials in the Historical Corporate Reports Collection and believe that your materials are inappropriately accessible on this Web site, please contact: Director, Thomas J. Watson Library of Business and Economics 130 Uris Hall Columbia University 3022 Broadway New York, NY 10027 business@library.columbia.edu This project was a joint effort of the Columbia University's Watson Library of Business and Economics, the Preservation and Digital Conversion Division, and the Libraries Digital Program Division. The project was paid for by funds allocated from the Libraries Digital Program budget. Digitization was performed in 2008 on-site at Columbia by a commerical vendor (Backstage Library Works); pre- and post-processing tasks were handled by staff from the Business Library and the Preservation and Digital Conversion Division respectively. Sidebar Columbia University Libraries Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Columbia University Libraries Links FAQ Hours Libraries Addresses & Phone Numbers Collections Archival Collections Digital Collections Collection Policies Directions to Columbia Map of Campus Libraries Libraries Website Search CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.