CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Web Archives Select a Columbia History Resource Alma Mater Alumni Registers Booklets, Guides & Campus Viewbooks Coeducation at Columbia Honors & Prizes Media Online Exhibits President Profiles Publications Timelines & Histories University Documents Web Archives Columbia History Resources Columbia University website, 2009 Columbia domain websites, that is, sites a columbia.edu address, have been crawled and preserved since 1996 and are available in our web archive collection via the Archive-It service. In addition, select sites without a columbia.edu address, for example those for publications and student groups, have been identified and are also captured in the web crawls. In 2015 we transitioned from a once-a-year crawl of the entire web domain in December to a semi-annual crawl in June and December. Certain pages, especially those containing information concerning course offerings, are crawled quarterly to make sure all course offerings for fall, spring and summer sessions are captured. University Archives staff have also identified areas of the Columbia University website that would be of particular interest or use to researchers. Select webpages have been described and categorized within our Archive-It site in order to make it easier for a user to find sites related to the following groups: administration, alumni magazines, athletics, centers and institutes, course bulletins, honors and awards, libraries, schools and departments, student organizations, and student publications. The most frequently requested information from the Columbia web archive is in the area of course descriptions. As schools moved course description information from annual published paper catalogues to online-only distribution, we have found that our web archiving efforts often provide the only publicly available access points to old, online course descriptions. Although not every course description for every school has been captured, one can usually find descriptions for courses offered by Columbia College, School of Engineering and Applied Science, School of General Studies, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences (GSAS), Graduate School of Architecture and Architectural Planning (GSAAP), and the School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA). If a school only posted online course descriptions in the CourseWorks system, that content was not able to be collected due to the secure nature of the site. Please select the course bulletin grouping to help your search for course descriptions. For some of the older online course information, we recommend navigating from the archived Columbia University website to the appropriate school or department pages to look for online course descriptions. If you encounter any dead links on our archived pages or have any further suggestions as to what should be captured or highlighted, please email uarchives@columbia.edu. Archiving Social Media RBML's Instagram account (@columbia_rbml), March 2021 Archiving social media has always been imperfect: how do you capture dynamic content that is constantly changing and how do you navigate platforms that require users to log in to access any content? So far, the best approach is to manually archive the desired social media feeds directly as a logged-in user of the respective platforms. This way the look and feel of the platform is fully accessible. There are two good options for this approach. Conifer is a free tool that used to be called Webrecorder, and still based at Rhizome (New Museum). With Conifer, you set up a free account, log in, and use their web interface to load specific web content that you want to archive in your browser, and then as you click around the tool archives each page/file that you click on. You can stop recording at any time, and immediately replay the content you have just archived. The data resides in their cloud account, but you can download it and save it locally as well. Importantly, archives created in Conifer can be downloaded in .warc format, which can be uploaded into our University Archives web collection. The Chrome extension Archiveweb.page is an even lighter-weight version of this manual approach to web archiving, created by the same developer, Ilya Kremer. This tool is very easy to use: the user just has to add the Archiveweb.page extension to their Chrome browser. Once logged into Twitter, FB, Instagram, etc., go to the feed you wish to archive, and use the extension to archive exactly what you want by clicking on each relevant page/link in your browser. These captures can be stored as collections on the browser's device and can also be downloaded as .wacz or, preferably, .warc files, which can be uploaded into our University Archives web collection. For more information, please see our guidelines on how to transfer digital records. Sidebar Columbia University Archives Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor Butler Library 535 West 114th St. M.C. 1127 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-3786 E-mail: uarchives@columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Create or Access Your Special Collections Research Account Columbia University Archives About the University Archives Research & Access Use Policies & Services Collection Overview Columbia History Resources University Archives Research Guides Donating Materials Managing University Records Rare Book & Manuscript Library RBML News CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.