Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Equity, Diversity, Accessibility and Inclusion Equity, Diversity, Accessibility and Inclusion Page main body content The Libraries strive to offer inclusive and accessible physical and virtual spaces. We aim to be an equitable and inclusive organization, where all staff are supported, heard and encouraged to share ideas, and where all library users feel welcome, safe and respected as they follow their own academic and creative pursuits. As Libraries’ administrators and staff, we have the opportunity and responsibility to ensure that our programming, services, collections, spaces, staffing, policies, practices and communications align with these ambitions. We also recognize that systemic inequities are embedded within libraries, universities and throughout our society, resulting in significant harm to our most vulnerable, marginalized and oppressed populations. We acknowledge that our institution is built upon the ancestral lands of the Onondaga Nation and recognize the history of genocide and forced removal of indigenous populations from their territories. Community and societal injustices must not be ignored, and we must confront and dismantle systems of oppression, such as white supremacy, wherever they exist, including at Syracuse University. The Equity, Diversity, Inclusion and Accessibility Guide and the Guide to Resources for Racial Justice are just two examples of resources available to us and our community to begin this work. Our 2018-2022 Strategic Plan includes Goal 8: Enhance Diversity and Inclusion, with specific objectives and strategies that we are working on actively. Subsequent statements underscore our commitment to diversity and inclusion, including a response to the racist Theta Tau fraternity videos in 2018 and the 2020 statement from the Dean and the SU Libraries Diversity and Inclusion Team in support of Black Lives Matter. Our programming, services and spaces encourage conversations in support of diversity and inclusion (such as our annual Living Library event) and highlight the experiences, history and creativity of people from underrepresented groups (such as the Black Arts Movement Popup Exhibit in our Special Collections Research Center). We are reviewing our collections to ensure that they reflect diversity, differences and distinctions. We have established the position of an Inclusion and Accessibility Librarian, who leads efforts to provide equitable access to SU Libraries’ resources and services, including a service to provide alternate formats of library materials to patrons with disabilities. Internal efforts, led by the Libraries' Diversity and Inclusion Team, include recommending resources and training to help the Libraries' administrators and staff learn more about diversity and inclusion, as well as offering guidance and implementing ongoing change. A recent focus of the Diversity and Inclusion Team is providing consultations on equitable hiring and recruiting practices. While we believe our efforts are leading in a positive direction, we acknowledge the substantial work we still must do in addressing the whiteness, racism, ableism, sexism and other systems of oppression that continue to exist within our own field. Syracuse University Libraries is committed to reviewing and interrogating our professional practices in support of equity, diversity, inclusion and accessibility, in alignment with Syracuse University’s Diversity and Inclusion work. We are reviewing our organizational commitments and goals and will continue to update the University community on our progress. Our library supporters and donors are contributing to our efforts, too. For example, Library Advisory Board member Todd Rubin has made a five-year commitment to support student entrepreneurs from diverse backgrounds. The Todd B. Rubin Diversity and Inclusion Scholars work with the Blackstone LaunchPad to broaden diversity and inclusion outreach and programming, expand participation in entrepreneurship by underrepresented groups and support the University's commitment to diversity and inclusion. As we do this important work, we welcome all constructive criticism and feedback from the communities we serve. Questions and Answers Toggle Professional Association Resources Content Syracuse University Libraries’ commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility reflects the shared values of our university and of our profession. Statements and commitments from professional associations include: Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL) Core Commitment to Equity, Diversity and Inclusion; Association of Research Libraries (ARL) Statement Condemning Racism and Violence Against Black Communities and their diversity leadership development activities; American Library Association (ALA) Advocacy for Equitable Access to Library Services for All; Society of American Archivists (SAA) Statement on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion; and Coalition for Diversity and Inclusion in Scholarly Communications' Joint Statement of Principles. Toggle Preferred Name and Pronouns Content If you updated your preferred pronouns or name with University records, most likely the Libraries will eventually receive that information from the University. However, there is a lag time connecting systems. Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.