Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Information for Graduate Students, Medical Students, and Postdocs Research Borrowing options: If Brown doesn’t have what you’re looking for, use easyBorrow to request your item through WorldCat. Other borrowing options are also available, including access to the public libraries in Providence and surrounding communities. Medical Connections Health Sciences Resources Research consultations with a librarian: Request a research consultation: One-on-one research consultations with a librarian are available. Ask your subject librarian (email, phone, chat, in person): Find librarians by subject. Resource guides: Explore subject guides on more than 80 topics to find resources by subject. Theses and electronic dissertations: Electronic submission of dissertations is available to Ph.D. candidates with expansion to master’s theses in the near future. Thesis and Dissertation Binding Information for Graduate Students Get a carrel: Brown students writing a dissertation or thesis, and Brown faculty members, may apply at the Rock circulation desk or by email for the use of a study carrel in the Rockefeller, Sciences, or Orwig libraries. Find special collections that support your research: Learn more about over 250 collections notable for subject matter, age, uniqueness, or value, as well as available digital collections. Teaching OCRA: Use OCRA to place books and other physical media on reserve AND to create electronic reserves: links to ebooks and other online content, digitization of articles, book chapters, full-length movies, short video clips, and audio files. Links to reserves in all formats will be added to your MyCourses site. Library and research skills instruction: Research skills instruction sessions led by a subject librarian are available at all levels and with a wide range of topics. Customized course guides to research and resources: Customized research guides for your courses prepared by your subject librarian are available as well. Instructional Technology Group: ITG provides support for MyCourses, course preview pages, course email lists, wikis, blogs, clickers/classroom response system, and instructional technology consultations. Classroom technology/Media Services: Media Services provides equipment, training, and media support for faculty, staff, and students. Professional Development Career Development Center: The Career Development Center provides resources to help you along every step of your graduate career, including preparing for a conference, choosing a research adviser, surviving the dissertation writing process, and guides to the academic and non-academic job search. Software and skills training: Workday provides free research workshops and software training for the Brown community. Sheridan Center for Teaching and Learning: The Sheridan Center provides consulting services, programming, and teaching resources to all members of Brown’s teaching community. Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University