My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) Libraries & Affiliates Butler Library Maps & Directions Maps & Directions Butler Library is the large white building in the center of the south end of campus. It is recognizable by its broad columned facade decorated with the names of world authors and U.S. statesmen. There is only one public entrance to Butler, from the campus side; there is no street entrance. From Broadway: If you are coming from the West 116th Street subway station (#1) or the bus stop (M104, M4, M60), enter Columbia's main gate at W. 116th St and Broadway. Walk along College Walk to the large stone sundial halfway across the central campus area; turn right (south) and walk straight ahead to Butler Library. From Amsterdam Avenue: If you are coming from the Amsterdam side, enter through the east gate at 116th. Walk along College Walk to the large stone sundial halfway across the central campus area; turn left (South) and walk straight ahead to Butler Library. From West 114th Street: If you arrive on 114th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue, you can enter through either of the campus gates on the north side of 114th St. These gates both open onto walkways that run directly alongside the east and west sides of Butler, respectively. Circle around to the front of Butler and enter through the main doors. If you are a visitor, please stop in at the Library Information Office (Room 201, just to the left as you walk in the main entrance of Butler) to arrange for visiting privileges and/or a reader's card. If you have an appointment with someone on the library staff, please ask the guard to call the person to let them know you've arrived. More Information for Visitors Map of Campus Libraries How to Get to Columbia Note: Butler Library is often confused with Low Memorial Library, which is the domed building with columns in the absolute center of campus, up two long flights of stone stairs. Low is no longer a library at all, and now houses many of the University's central offices of adminstration, as well as the Columbia University Visitors Center: (212) 854-4900. Butler Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Butler Library 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 E-mail: butler@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » | Directions » Spaces in Butler Library Research Reading Rooms Rare Book & Manuscript Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Studio@Butler Periodicals & Microforms Reading Room First-Generation, Low-Income Partnership Library Related Links Research & Topic Guides Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian