<iframe height="0" src="//www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5LBRZK" style="display:none;visibility:hidden" width="0"></iframe> Skip To Content University Libraries Search Theses & Dissertations Theses & Dissertations Search What am I searching? Use the search box above to find Texas A&M theses and dissertations in either print or electronic format. Texas A&M Theses & Dissertations Texas A&M Theses & Dissertations (OAKTrust) Texas A&M University institutional repository for theses and dissertations. Online access to theses and dissertations submitted prior to 2004 may be limited to current Texas A&M students, faculty, and staff. Theses & Dissertations ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global A collection of dissertations and theses from around the world, spanning from 1743 to the present day and offering full text for graduate works added since 1997, along with selected full text for works written prior to 1997. It contains a significant amount of new international dissertations and theses both in citations and in full text. Center for Research Libraries Catalog The Center for Research Libraries (CRL) is a consortium of North American universities, colleges, and independent research libraries. The consortium acquires and preserves newspapers, journals, documents, archives, and other traditional and digital resources for research and teaching and makes them available to member institutions through interlibrary loan and electronic delivery. DART-Europe E-theses Portal Access to thousands of open access research theses from universities in European countries. DiVA Academic Archive On-line Theses from 30 universities and colleges of higher education from Sweden and other Scandinavian universities. (In English, Swedish, and Norwegian). Electronic Theses Online Services (EThOS) Access to UK Theses. Networked Digital Library of Theses and Dissertations (NDLTD) An Open Access Initiative (OAI) Union Catalog of theses and dissertations from many countries, which are all immediately available electronically. PQDT Open Full text of open access dissertations and theses. Theses Canada Portal Canadian theses at Library and Archives Canada (LAC) Trove: National Library of Australia Limit your search by doing an Advanced Search and limit by Format Value: Thesis. WorldCat OCLC WorldCat database is the OCLC online catalog. It contains over 43 million records describing library holdings. FAQs How can I look for theses (or dissertations)? How can I access an older thesis or dissertation? I am trying to access a dissertation and it says there is an embargo. Support the Libraries AskUs anything at anytime. Chat with Us Call Us Text Us @ 979-256-1091 Email Us About the Libraries Quick Phone & Mailing List Directory | Find my Librarian Employment Diversity Matters Site Map | Site Search Follow Us Facebook Twitter You Tube Instagram howdy.tamu.edu Off-Campus Access Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Texas CREWS Comments Services Status