Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Brown University Archives Mission The University Archives serves as the institutional memory of Brown University by collecting, preserving, and making accessible the materials that provide evidence of past University actions and contribute to an understanding of the University’s structure and its history. The University Archives documents the intellectual, social, cultural, and visual history of Brown University from its beginnings in 1764 to the present through the University’s official records, the papers of Brown’s presidents, administrators, faculty and alumni, the records of related student, alumni, and faculty organizations, and University publications. In support of research, teaching, and the dissemination of Brown University’s rich history, the University Archives offers reference services to the Brown University community, including administrators, faculty, staff, students, and alumni, as well as the general public. Collection Highlights To access more archival collections, see Collections Overview. Corporation Records President’s Papers Administrative Records Faculty Papers Student Organization Records Topic Files University Publications Photographs and Prints Edward North Robinson Collection of Brown Athletics History of Brown University The Archives contains many published histories of Brown University, including: Barry, Jay. Gentlemen Under the Elms (1982) Barry, Jay and Martha Mitchell. A Tale of Two Centuries: A Warm and Richly Pictorial History of Brown University, 1764-1985 (1985) Bronson, Walter C. The History of Brown University, 1764–1914 (1914) Guild, Reuben A. Early History of Brown University, Including the Life, Times, and Correspondence of President Manning (1897) Hawk, Grace. Pembroke College in Brown University; The First Seventy-Five Years (1966) Kaufman, Polly Welts, ed. The Search For Equity: Women at Brown University, 1891-1991 (1991) Phillips, Janet M. Brown University: A Short History (2000) Rhinehart, Raymond P., Walter Smalling, Christina H. Paxson, and Dietrich Neumann. Brown University: An Architectural Tour (2014) Weeden, Anne T. The Women’s College in Brown University, Its Origin and Development (1912) Widmer, Edward L. Brown: The History of an Idea (2015) For the definitive reference work on the history, people, and places of Brown University, please use the Encyclopedia Brunoniana by Martha Mitchell, available in print and online. University Archives Mission History of Brown University Collections Overview Research Opportunities Subject Guide Online Exhibits Donate or Transfer Materials University Records Management Records Management Record Retention Schedule Collections Policy for University Records University Archives is located in the John Hay Library. For information contact: archives@brown.edu (401) 863-2148 Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University