Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Policies Policies Page main body content Syracuse University Policies apply when using the Libraries' spaces, services or resources and supersede specific Libraries' policies. Libraries' policies below provide clarification when University policies do not directly address unique situations. Policies Toggle Art Exhibition Policy Content The gallery space will contribute to the campus cultural life by offering students a venue for exhibiting their creative work to a wider audience. Includes the Biblio Gallery on the 4th floor of Bird Library for rotating exhibitions of two-dimensional student artwork that is ready to hang. Also includes the virtual Biblio Gallery space. Who may exhibit? Syracuse University undergraduate and graduate students. Application and Selection All proposals must be submitted through the Exhibition Gallery Submission Form. The Librarian for Visual Arts is responsible for approving art exhibition proposals. Security and Liability Bird Library will provide reasonable security for exhibitions. The Libraries accept no responsibility for damage to, or loss of, art pieces at any time while on display or while being transported to or from Bird Library. Contributors/exhibitors must complete an Exhibit Release Form before the display is installed. Syracuse University does not provide insurance for student artwork on exhibition; that is the artist's responsibility. Set up All artwork must be ready to display (i.e. mounted, framed, etc.). Exhibitors will be responsible for providing ready-to-mount labels and delivering the artwork to and from Bird Library. The exhibitor will be responsible for the hanging and arrangement of all materials in the gallery space. Artwork will be returned only to the lender or duly authorized agent or representative with proper written permission. If help is needed, please contact Ann Skiold. Announcement and Promotion The Libraries will promote exhibits via its website, SU News, and other outlets, as appropriate. Toggle Community Bulletin Board Posting Content The Libraries encourage the use of community bulletin boards to share information about opportunities, events, courses, etc. by individuals or groups. There are two community bulletin boards in Bird Library on the 1st floor next to each vending machine area, one on the Waverly Street side of the building and the other near Pages Cafe. There is also a Libraries' maintained community bulletin board outside the librarians offices in Carnegie Library for student, faculty and staff use. Signs are only permitted to be posted on the designated community bulletin boards. They may not be taped, glued or put up in any other parts of the building. Signs that are posted should include the sponsoring organization and a contact department or person. Marketing communications will routinely monitor the bulletin boards and remove any signs that are outdated. Graffiti or marking on the actual board is not permitted and is considered vandalism, just like any marking on any walls or furniture is considered vandalism. DPS will be notified if vandalism is discovered. Hateful speech is never permitted and if found, DPS will be notified. If flyers are found posted in areas outside of the bulletin board, we will attempt to move them to the designated bulletin boards. In certain situations, we may receive requests from groups to deviate from normal policy on signage. In these instances, it is at the discretion of the Dean to approve exceptions to the policy. Thank you for creating a culture that embraces sharing information among the campus community. Toggle Computer Use Policy Content The Libraries' computer workstations require log in and are reserved at all times for those with an SU or SUNY-ESF ID or alumni card (SU students, faculty, staff, alumni, and spouses/ partners/ dependents). Any patron may access the Libraries catalog through quick look-up stations located on floors 1-5 of Bird Library or request access to the government documents. Any Libraries patron may use their laptop or personal mobile device to access the University's AirOrange wireless network as a guest. Use of Libraries computers is governed by the Library Use and Conduct Policy and SU Computing Policies. Libraries users are expected to comply with the University's Computing and Electronic Communications policy while accessing Libraries' computers and networks. This policy governs the use of computers, networks, and related services on the Syracuse University campus. Users must comply with all licensing and copyright regulations that apply to systems or software. Users must respect the rights of others, respect the integrity of the computers, networks and related services, and observe all relevant laws, regulations, contractual obligations and University policies and procedures. Users or visitors may not engage in the following conduct: abusive or harassing conduct any criminal or otherwise illegal conduct, including the public display of offensive sexual materials as restricted by state and federal laws any copyright infringement, and/or damaging, disabling or otherwise interfering with the operation of computers and computer systems (including, but not limited to, altering the existing computer settings). Violation of these rules will result in suspension of Libraries access and privileges. Toggle Copyright Content The Copyright Research Guide contains information related to copyright, fair use, open educational resources and getting help. Toggle Digital Signage Guidelines Content Timely information around important events, resources and services provided by the Libraries and its campus partners are shared on flat-screen HD monitors located on the 1st floor of Bird Library and in Carnegie Library. The signage is powered by the University's Four Winds Interactive system and is part of a campus-wide emergency alert program. In case of emergency, University alert messages replace Libraries content. Additional digital signage is available on various floors in Bird Library, with content locally managed. Content for digital signs is managed by Libraries’ Marketing and Communications. Technical infrastructure is managed by Libraries Information Technology. Input is periodically sought from user services staff in the Libraries. The use of digital signage is subject to the requirements of legal and ethical behavior within the University community. The digital signs promote Libraries’-sponsored and partner events and activities taking place in the Libraries and services/resources offered at the Libraries. In the event of an emergency, University Department of Public Safety will take over all displays connected to the digital signage. Submission Guidelines To submit a request for content to be included in Libraries digital signage, email libcom@syr.edu. Marketing Communications reserves the right to edit or decline any suggested content. Those wishing to submit content for consideration should provide content that can be formatted as a slide within a PowerPoint deck running in the main window of the screen. Elements for content should include: Suggested visual image, if appropriate, that is high-quality TIF, PNG, or JPG, at least 1216 pixels wide x 684 pixels high (and no more than 2432 x 1368) in either RGB or grayscale should be included. Please only submit images with copyright approval. Recommended headline of three to eight words. No more than 4-6 bullets/key points. Toggle Extended Laptop Loan Agreement Content Users must fill out an Extended Laptop Loan Request Form and will be contacted within 24 hours with availability and to arrange an appointment for pick-up. Users are prohibited from tampering with the laptop’s hardware and/or software. Items are due back 15 minutes before library closing time on the due date. Failure to return the laptop on time will result in a permanent ban on future extended laptop loan privileges. On the first day the item is overdue: Patron borrowing privileges will be suspended and a hold will be placed on the patron’s Bursar account until the item is returned in same condition as when it was originally checked out. In an attempt to locate an overdue laptop, the Libraries will utilize tracking software loaded on the laptop. Additional patron services including Interlibrary Loan and Article to Go will also be suspended. On the 2nd day the item is overdue: A missing item report will be filed with the Syracuse University Department of Public Safety for possible criminal charges and/or SU/SUNY-ESF judicial sanctions. Usage The Libraries are not responsible for damage to or loss of user’s files. The Libraries are not responsible for personal information and documents accessed by other patrons without proper shut down prior to returning the laptop. Charges $30 for a 14 day loan; must be paid by credit card at time of pick-up. Late fees for laptops not returned on time are $5 per day for each item. Replacement fees will be charged on the 2nd day item is overdue or if the item is damaged: Dell Laptop: $1,600 Mac Laptop: $1,750 Dell Charger: $135 Mac Charger: $115 Laptop Bag: $50 Replacement fees will be removed if the item is returned in original condition. An additional $15 processing fee is applied for unreturned/damaged equipment. Toggle Guest Borrower Account Content Guest Borrower accounts do not include access to the Libraries' computer workstations, but any library patron may use their laptop or personal mobile device to access the University's AirOrange wireless network as a guest. Accounts are available for a fee to individuals 18 years or older from the general public. Note that those with an SU or SUNY-ESF ID or Alumni Card do not need a Guest Borrower Account. To apply for a Guest Borrower Account: Complete a Guest Borrower form online in advance, as the application process can take 7-10 business days. A valid government-issued photo ID will be required for activation of account. Credit card payment of fee is required for activation. Cash and check are not accepted. Applications will be reviewed and, if approved, an inactive Guest Borrower card will be mailed to the patron’s address. To activate the account, the patron must present the card at Bird Check Out desk, providing both the valid government-issued photo ID and a credit card for payment. Guest Borrowers will be limited to borrowing up to 5 books at any time. Borrowing privileges are contingent upon continued eligibility and compliance with all borrowing rules and Libraries' use policies. The Libraries reserve the right to cancel borrowing privileges and forward unpaid charges to a collections agency. Guest Borrower Corporate/Organization Account Corporations/Organizations may purchase a Corporate/Organization Guest Borrowing account in the organization's name. Up to two Guest Borrower cards will be issued to an organization. The Libraries require the name, valid government-issued photo ID and credit card of the officer of the institution who will be responsible for fines, fees or lost Libraries materials. Guest Borrowers must complete a Guest Borrower form online in advance, as the application process can take 7-10 business days. A valid government-issued photo ID and credit card of the institutional officer will be required for activation of account. Credit card payment of fee is required for activation. Cash and check are not accepted. Applications will be reviewed and, if approved, an inactive Guest Borrower card will be mailed to the officer/patron’s address. To activate the account, the officer/patron must present the card at Bird Check Out desk, providing both the valid government-issued photo ID and a credit card for payment. Corporate/Organization Guest Borrowers will be limited to borrowing up to 5 books on the account at any time. Toggle Licensed Web Resources Access Content Syracuse University Libraries, on behalf of the University, licenses a variety of research materials, e.g., databases, electronic journals and books, streaming media, data, etc. Anyone using a campus library or workstation may access these resources on site. However, only currently enrolled Syracuse University students, faculty and staff are eligible to access licensed resources from off-campus locations. Access control (authentication) is required and specified in our contracts with the vendors of these resources. Syracuse University affiliation is maintained and tracked in University systems such as the ID card system and PeopleSoft. Patron records for SU-affiliated users in the Libraries' online system are derived from University systems and include name, address, SU ID number, status and an expiration date. The system deployed by the Libraries to provide authentication for remote access uses the SU ID number as the Login ID. For this reason, it is incumbent upon all users to keep this number confidential and to report missing or stolen ID as soon as possible. The Libraries take seriously the legal responsibility to comply with contracts and abide by current copyright law and is diligent in maintaining its database of eligible users. The Libraries work closely with other University units to resolve status and classification problems for eligible users. Systematic downloading of articles or other information, sharing of articles or other information with individuals at other institutions, making content available on openly accessible servers / web sites, and using such articles or information for commercial purposes are expressly prohibited. E-resources subscribed to or owned by Syracuse University Libraries are licensed for scholarly, research or educational purposes, and not intended for commercial use. Users should be aware that publishers and vendors may monitor use of electronic resources to ensure that the terms of their license agreements are being enforced. The Libraries are also contractually obligated to investigate reported misuse of licensed resources. The consequences of misuse could result in termination of the license and loss of the use of this material by the entire Syracuse University community. Violators of this policy may be subject to University disciplinary policies, criminal prosecution, and/or be liable for damages to the fullest extent provided by law. Toggle Photographing, Videotaping and Filming in Libraries Content In all instances, use of photographic, videotape, or film equipment within the libraries: Must not interfere with the study, research, privacy or safety needs of Libraries’ users. Must not violate any Syracuse University policies, rules or regulations. May not hinder access to exits, stairways, corridors or doorways. May sometimes be restricted during midterms or near final examinations. Must include consent from any individual who is included or is the subject of the photograph, video or film. There are three different scenarios where visitors to SU Libraries may have occasion to photograph, videotape or film: 1) Personal Use Visitors to the SU Libraries are welcome to take photographs or videos for their personal use without formal authorization, so long as staff and users are not inconvenienced in any way. 2) Student and Public Use Any photography, video or filming requests for public use, including students working on academic projects, must be approved by Libraries’ Marketing and Communications office. This includes those who may be using lights or tripods, requesting access to a specific room, conducting interviews or shifting library materials or furniture. Any questions can be emailed to libcom@syr.edu. Keep in mind the following: a) Submit the request to photograph, videotape or film using this form 1-2 business days in advance; b) You will receive via approval via email from the Libraries’ Marketing and Communications team. c) Be prepared to present the approved request form to staff if asked. 3) Non-Syracuse University Commercial, News or Other External Organization External agencies wishing to film for commercial or news media purposes should contact Syracuse University’s central Office of News Services at sunews@syr.edu or 315.443.3784. Office of News Services will coordinate with the Libraries’ Department of Marketing and Communications. Right to Terminate SU Libraries reserve the right to terminate any photography, videotaping or filming that causes an undue disturbance, violates Libraries or University policies or regulations or endangers the health and safety of participants, patrons and staff. Form request to Photograph, Videotape or Film QUESTIONS Contact the Libraries Marketing and Communications office at libcom@syr.edu or 315.443.9788. Thank you for your cooperation. Toggle Privacy Policy Content Syracuse University Privacy Policy Syracuse University Libraries' Privacy Policy Syracuse University Libraries (“Libraries”) are committed to protecting the privacy of all who use their services, in person or online. This Privacy Policy provides information about the information the Libraries collect and use and why. The Libraries provide a vast array of services. Many services do not require users to divulge any information to Libraries staff or systems. Other services require users to provide some information in order to receive or benefit from the service. At all times, the Libraries’ staff keeps confidential all information about our users, their activities, and their research choices to the extent allowed by law. All Libraries divisions and personnel comply with New York State law that governs the confidentiality of library records. The remainder of this Privacy Policy provides details about the Libraries’ collection and use of various types of information. If you have any questions, comments, or concerns about this policy, please contact cipa@syr.edu. Definitions “Individual Information” includes personal name, physical addresses (including permanent and temporary residence addresses), electronic addresses (including e-mail, instant messaging addresses or screen names, and VOIP addresses or screen names), telephone numbers, and social security number. “University Information” includes SU ID number, NetID, and any cards or items that include such numbers or identifiers. “Authenticated Services” are web-based services the Libraries provide through the Libraries’ website that require proof that the visitor using the service is affiliated with the Syracuse University community. Authenticated Services – such as “Request,” “My Account,” and using databases off campus – may require users to provide University information. “Libraries Website” includes content, files, and servers the Libraries manage or control, including, but not limited to, those under the addresses http://library.syr.edu; http://summit.syr.edu; http://syracuse.summon.serialssolutions.com/; and associated or successor websites or portals that manage, display or provide information about the Libraries’ collections or holdings. “Business Transactions” are agreements between individuals or institutions and the Libraries that may have federal or state income tax, trust, or estate implications. New York State Law New York State law (N.Y. C.P.L.R. § 4509), which outlines the confidentiality of patron records, says in substantive part: Library records, which contain names or other personally identifying details regarding the users of … college and university … shall be confidential and shall not be disclosed except that such records may be disclosed to the extent necessary for the proper operation of such library and shall be disclosed upon request or consent of the user or pursuant to subpoena, court order or where otherwise required by statute. “Library records” include information related to: Circulation of library materials. Computer database searches. Interlibrary loan transactions. Reference queries. Requests for photocopies of library materials. Title reserve requests. The use of audio-visual materials, films, or records. The Libraries and its staff comply with New York’s law concerning the confidentiality of patron records. Details on Libraries’ Information Gathering The Libraries perform many functions for the University community. This section provides details about the Libraries’ information gathering practices with respect to each service the Libraries provide to patrons. Browsing the Libraries website: The Libraries collect and store certain information automatically when people browse the website. This information includes: - Internet domain (e.g., .edu for educational accounts, .com for commercial accounts). - IP address. - Type of browser and operating system used. - Date and time of access. - Pages visited. - Referring URL. The Libraries use this information to track site usage, monitor site performance, and generate aggregate statistics. The Libraries do not record, maintain, or track any Individual Information or University Information while visitors are browsing portions of the Libraries website that do not contain Authenticated Services. Reference: When visitors seek assistance at the reference desk, the Libraries do not require them to provide Individual Information or University Information. The Libraries may require a visitor to provide University Information, however, in order to use the Libraries’ online resources. Also, the Libraries may ask users for Individual Information or University Information in order to improve or customize online or face-to-face reference services. The Libraries may use information they collect during reference transactions for internal business purposes and to improve the Libraries’ services. Whenever this occurs, the Libraries will use the information in a way that eliminates all Individual Information and strips any personally identifying connectors from University Information. Classic Catalog: When users browse or search the Classic Catalog, the Libraries’ online public access catalog, the Libraries collect and store information that is similar to what they collect when visitors browse the Libraries website. If visitors seek to use Authenticated Services within the Classic Catalog, however, they must provide University Information. The Libraries may use information they collect from the Classic Catalog system for internal business purposes and to improve Libraries services. Whenever this occurs, the Libraries will use the information in a way that eliminates all Individual Information and strips any personally identifying connectors from University Information. Circulation: The Libraries require all users to provide University Information in order to borrow materials from the Libraries, including books and laptop computers. The Libraries may use circulation information they collect for internal business purposes and to improve Libraries services. Whenever this occurs, the Libraries will use the information in a way that eliminates all Individual Information and strips any personally identifying connectors from University information. Interlibrary Loan: The Libraries require all users to provide University Information in order to borrow materials from other libraries through the inter-library loan (“ILL”) service. The Libraries may use ILL information they collect for internal business purposes and to improve the Libraries’ services. Whenever this occurs, the Libraries will use the information in a way that eliminates all Individual Information and strips any personally identifying connectors from University information. Online Resources: When a member of the University community is on campus, that person can access the Libraries’ online resources without having to provide Individual Information or University Information. (This presumes a person already has logged on to the University network, which requires providing University Information.) When a member of the University community is off campus, however, that person will be required to provide University Information in order to use the Libraries’ online databases. The Libraries may use information that they collect about online database use for internal business purposes and to improve the Libraries services. Whenever this occurs, the Libraries will use the information in a way that eliminates all Individual Information and strips any personally identifying connectors from University Information. Technology Loan: The Libraries require all users to provide University Information in order to borrow technology items. The Libraries may use University Information and associated data loan information if users fail to return the items as required by the Libraries Technology Support and Loan Policy. Whenever this occurs, the Libraries will provide University Information to the Syracuse University Bursar or the Syracuse University Department of Public Safety. The Libraries will also enable tracking software installed on the technology items to identify their location; tracking may include the use of cameras. Libraries Research Initiatives: In order to improve their service to the community, the Libraries occasionally may conduct survey studies, issue questionnaires, or perform other data gathering activities. During these initiatives, the Libraries may ask visitors to provide Individual Information or University Information. In these circumstances, the Libraries consider this information optional; the visitor or user can choose whether or not to provide this information. Further, a visitor’s decision to withhold Individual Information or University Information from a Libraries employee who is conducting a research initiative will not harm, diminish, or otherwise affect the level of service that visitor receives from the Libraries. The Libraries may use information that they collect from research initiatives for internal business purposes and to improve the Libraries’ services. Whenever this occurs, the Libraries will use the information in a way that eliminates all Individual Information and strips any personally identifying connectors from University Information. Business Transactions: Under federal or state law, the Libraries may be required to collect, track, and keep Individual Information whenever they conduct a Business Transaction with an individual or institution. In these cases, Individual Information may include taxpayer identification numbers. The Libraries may use information that they collect from Business Transactions for internal business purposes only. Whenever this occurs, the Libraries will divulge Individual Information only to the following parties:  - University officials who are authorized to handle such information. - State or federal taxing agencies upon official, written request. - An individual’s duly authorized attorney or estate executor; - and/or an organization’s duly authorized representative, upon written request. The Libraries retain Individual Information associated with Business Transactions for a period of time mandated by state or federal tax laws and consistent with the University’s data retention schedule. Social Security Numbers There is no service the Libraries provide –in person or online –that requires a user to provide his or her social security number. Except for Business Transactions, if a Libraries staff member or affiliated Libraries service (including an online database) requests your social security number, please contact cipa@syr.edu. Personal Security Users share in the responsibility for ensuring that their personal information is adequately protected. It is users’ responsibility to protect their University Information. When using the Libraries’ computers, users must keep their University Information secure from unauthorized access by keeping their password secret. Users must never leave the Libraries’ computers unattended while logged in using University Information. Users must always log out of the Libraries’ computers if stepping away from the Libraries’ computers. Links to Other Websites The Libraries’ websites may contain links to other websites of interest. Once users visit such other sites, the Libraries cannot control the protection and privacy of any information users provide on those other sites. Users should exercise caution and look at the privacy statement applicable to the website in question. Contact If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, please contact us through our website or write to the Libraries at: Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Avenue Syracuse, New York 13244 E-mail: cipa@syr.edu Metadata Version: 2.0 Author: Pamela W. McLaughlin Editors: K. Matthew Dames; Amy Vanderlyke Dygert; Scott Warren Date: August 1, 2009; October4, 2013; June 4, 2021 Toggle Room Use General Policy Content This policy governs the use of all Syracuse University Libraries rooms that are available for University faculty and staff to reserve for classes or meetings. Failure to follow these policies may result in loss of room use privileges for the user and the group, and/or the assessment of a fee. Room reservations Individuals holding a valid current Syracuse University faculty or staff I.D. may reserve designated Libraries meeting rooms. Room reservations must be made via the appropriate form on the Libraries’ Reserve a Room web page. Telephone and email reservations are not accepted. The Libraries will assign a room based on availability and on the specifications included in each request. In order to provide equitable access to Libraries spaces, the Libraries reserves the right to limit frequency and duration of use. The Libraries generally does not accept reservations requested more than three months in advance. All meeting spaces require an SU staff or faculty member be present at the meeting or event. Cancellations or changes If cancellations or changes in the reservation(s) become necessary, the registrant must notify the Libraries by phone (315.443.2573) or email (librooms@syr.edu) at least 24 hours in advance of the scheduled event. Room access The event’s coordinator must present their SU I.D. at the Circulation Desk staff on the first floor of Bird Library to obtain access to the scheduled room. Room set-up The event’s coordinator is responsible for setting up the room, using only the furniture available within the designated room. The Libraries does not provide assistance with set-up or clean-up. At the end of the event the coordinator is responsible for returning the furniture to its default arrangement, which is posted on or near the room entrance. The host may request additional help with setup and/or cleanup through Physical Plant (315.443.1234). Groups may not affix any materials to the walls or doors of the room or Libraries public areas without explicit permission from the Libraries. All signs must be posted in stanchions or other approved sign holders. Accessibility and accommodation Accessibility features are detailed in each room’s description on the Libraries web site. The group or individual coordinating the function is responsible for arranging special accommodations for participants (e.g., CART, sign language assistants, etc.), and for complying with the provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act. The event’s coordinator also is responsible for arranging the room’s furniture to allow for accessible seating. Catering All events in which food will be served must be catered by Campus Catering. The event coordinator is responsible for ordering and paying for all catered items, and for forwarding a copy of the catering order to the Libraries (librooms@syr.edu) prior to the event. A Catering staff member must be present if a sterno or other open flame food warming system will be in use. The event coordinator is responsible for ensuring that all food and beverages are removed or properly disposed of at the end of the event. Under no circumstances may food be left in the room at the end of the event. Technology The technology available in each room is described on the Libraries web site and in the policy statement for each room. This technology is available on a self-serve basis; each room contains a printed guide for operating the equipment and instructions for actions to take in the event of an equipment problem. The event coordinator must designate an individual who is familiar with the presentation equipment available to assist if the presenter cannot operate the equipment by themselves. Safety and security The event’s coordinator is responsible for ensuring that attendance at the function does not exceed the legal capacity established for the meeting room, which is published on the Libraries web site. The group or individual sponsoring the function must inform participants of the location of emergency exits and restrooms (see floor maps). In the case of an evacuation all event participants must exit the building via the nearest emergency exit. The group or individual coordinating the event is responsible for ensuring that the room is not left unlocked and unattended at any time during the event and that the room is securely locked at the end of the event. Meetings/functions must be conducted so as not to disturb Libraries operations. The Libraries reserves the right to terminate any function that causes an undue disturbance or endangers the health and safety of participants, Libraries patrons, and/or Library staff. Use of Libraries Name The name of Syracuse University Libraries or Bird Library may be used only as a designation of the location of the function, unless the Libraries sponsors the event. Promotional materials relating to the function must specify the sponsoring group. The use of the Libraries’ meeting rooms does not constitute an endorsement of the content of the meeting or event. Personal Property The Libraries is not responsible for damage or loss of any personal property or other items left in the room. Items left in room will be taken to the Lost and Found in the Bird Library first floor Security Office, room 125. Property Damage or Loss The group or individual coordinating the function accepts financial liability for damage to Libraries facilities and/or loss of Libraries property. Use of Other Library Rooms Refer to specific rooms for policy and use guidance. The following applies to use of all Libraries rooms: The room user or event organizer is responsible for appropriate use of rooms in compliance with specific room guidelines. Room keys are available at the Check Out Desk during regular service desk hours. You will need your SU ID to obtain the key. Event organizers are responsible for setup, operation and shutdown of equipment. Libraries staff can provide training on equipment use prior to room use upon request. Departmental technology associates can also provide training for employees in their respective departments. Events must be concluded 30 minutes prior to the Check Out Desk closing, and keys must be returned to the Check Out Desk 15 minutes prior to closing. Immediately report any problems or issues with the room or equipment to library staff at the Check Out desk. User may be held responsible for damages if issues are not reported. For catered events in rooms that permit food, you must use Syracuse University catering. Remove all trash and recycling when you leave; return the room to its original layout/configuration. Report any cleaning issues at the Check Out desk. Rooms are not soundproof. Please keep noise level down and be respectful of those working nearby. Users will be held responsible and charged for any damages, loss, or vandalism to the room. Charges will be added to your account. The Libraries is not responsible for damage to or loss of any personal property or items left in the room. Items left in the room will be taken to the Libraries’ Lost and Found, Bird Library 1st floor Security Office. The Libraries reserves the right to revoke privileges for those who do not use the space according to policies. To cancel a meeting room reservation, email Libraries Administration (librooms@syr.edu) at least one day prior. Toggle Special Collections Use Policy Content Use of SCRC, Belfer Audio Archive and Preservation Laboratory and University Archives material is governed by the following regulations: Researchers must register at the Reading Room reference desk. One form of photo identification is required upon initial registration. Special Collections materials do not circulate and must be used in the Reading Room. All materials are retrieved for the researcher by SCRC staff. Call slips for books and manuscripts are provided at the reference desk and are to be completed by the researcher. All personal property, including coats, bags, notebooks, books, and folders, must be left in the lockers/coatroom. Food and drink are not permitted. Only pencils and paper supplied by SCRC staff may be used in the Reading Room. Pens/markers/highlighters/post-it notes/notebooks/folders are not allowed and must be kept in the lockers/coatroom. The Reading Room is a designated quiet area so please keep your voices to a minimum. Cell phone use is not permitted. Please take calls out in the public lobby by the elevators. Laptop computers, digital cameras and handheld mobile devices (with flash and sound mechanisms turned off) are permitted as long as their use does not disturb researchers or damage materials. Laptop, digital camera and handheld mobile devices cases must be stored in the lockers/coatroom. All digital camera use must be approved by SCRC staff prior to taking any images and is subject to any restrictions placed on the collection material. Flatbed/ handheld scanners, tripods and other equipment are not permitted. Researchers must sit at the research tables so that they are facing the Reading Room reference desk. All materials must be handled with the utmost care. Books, papers or elbows may not be placed on open books or manuscripts. Book cradles and weights are available at the reference desk. Gloves must be used when handling any photographic material. No tracings or rubbings are permitted. One box or book per table is permitted at a time. SCRC reserves the right to limit the number of books/manuscripts/audio material issued to a researcher at one time. Some restricted materials may be used only under direct supervision. Researchers must not disturb the order of documents within folders or boxes. Please use one folder at a time – place-holders are provided to keep track of your place in the box. Do not remove materials for copying/scanning. Copying is available upon application and is performed by SCRC staff. Slips to indicate materials to be copied are available at the reference desk. Permission to have materials copied must be secured in writing through the reference desk and depends on the condition, content and amount of materials, as well as possible restrictions on use and US Copyright laws. Complete information on copying and fees is available at the reference desk. Researchers intending to use SCRC materials in a publication (print or digital), performance or broadcast, must complete, sign and submit a Request to Publish form, available at the reference desk, to SCRC prior to publication. Researchers are responsible for acquiring permission from rights holders before quoting or publishing anything from our collections. Materials may not be left unattended in the Reading Room without permission. Researchers are responsible for materials until those items are returned to the desk in person and discharged. Materials that will be required again within one week can be placed on reserve. Materials must be requested for retrieval ½ hour prior to closing. Materials must be discharged or placed on reserve 15 minutes prior to closing. Before leaving the Reading Room, researchers must present all materials for inspection and sign out with the reference desk staff. Guidelines for Handling Special Collections Materials Researchers are permitted one box or book at their table at a time. Carts are not permitted to be kept next to the tables. Boxes must remain squarely on the table. Remove one folder from the box at a time and keep the folders in order in the box. Please use a place holder to mark the location of the removed folder. Manuscript folders and items must remain on the table. Please keep documents neat and in order in the folder. Do not tap manuscript materials on the table; please neaten them with the tips of your fingers instead. Do not remove items from folders. Acid-free paper slips are provided for researchers to flag items they wish to be duplicated, and correction forms are available at the desk if you wish to suggest changes to the arrangement or description of our materials. Do not lean on or rest anything on top of collection materials. Special corner weights to be used with rolled manuscript material and snake weights to be used with rare books are available at the Reading Room desk. Do not write, take notes, or place notepaper directly on collection materials and folders. Rubbings and tracings are not permitted. Researchers must wear gloves when handling photographs or negatives. Gloves are available at the Reading Room desk. No marks may be added or erased from collection materials. Please do not remove staples, paperclips, or other fasteners from collection materials. Please ask Reading Room desk staff for assistance with removal of these items. Researchers should return their materials to the Reading Room desk when leaving for the day, going to lunch, or whenever they are leaving the Reading Room for more than a few minutes. All books must be used with a support cradle. Books must remain in the support cradle, which must remain squarely on the table. Please do not use pencils or other objects as bookmarkers. Acid-free paper slips for marking your place are available at the desk. Please handle collection materials with care at all times. Toggle Technology Loan Policy Content Items checked out at the 1st floor Bird Check Out Desk and Carnegie 2nd floor Check Out desk are on a first come, first served basis. Borrowers are required to show a current valid SU or ESF I.D. card or government issued photo I.D. All technology items are due back 15 minutes before library closing. Do not leave items unattended. Users are responsible for all items and accessories. Borrowers are required to return items directly to a staff member at the 1st Floor Bird Check Out desk or to the Security Office on the 1st floor of Bird Library if the desk is closed. Items borrowed from Carnegie Library must be returned to a staff member at the Carnegie 2nd floor Check Out desk before the desk is closed. The Libraries reserve the right to deny borrowing privileges to patrons who violate library policies. Borrower is responsible for returning loaned materials on time. All items are subject to overdue fines and replacement costs as listed on individual items. Additional Policy for a Laptop Loan: On the first day the item is overdue: Patron borrowing privileges will be suspended and a hold will be placed on the patron’s Bursar account until the item is returned in its original condition when originally checked out. To locate an overdue laptop, the Libraries may utilize tracking software loaded on the laptop. Additional patron services including Interlibrary Loan and Article to Go will also be suspended. On the 2nd day the item is overdue: A missing item report will be filed with the Syracuse University Department of Public Safety for possible criminal charges and/or SU/SUNY-ESF judicial sanctions. Users are prohibited from tampering with the laptop’s hardware and existing software. Usage Damage or loss of user’s files: The Libraries are not responsible for damage to or loss of user’s files. Shut down laptop prior to returning: The Libraries are not responsible for personal information and documents accessed by other patrons without proper shut down. Toggle Use and Conduct Content To provide an atmosphere conducive to study and research, the Libraries has established the following rules: General policies Libraries users are expected to act in accordance with all University policies (e.g., Information Technology Resources Acceptable Use Policy) and the Code of Student Conduct. This includes adherence to the University’s COVID-level guidance and masking requirements. Identification Libraries users must present their valid SU ID cards at the request of Libraries or University staff, in accordance with the Syracuse University ID Card Policy. Priority use The Libraries give priority to current/active Syracuse University faculty, students and staff who are using resources for research, instructional and informational purposes. The general public may use Libraries when resources are not restricted to those with valid SU or SUNY-ESF ID cards. Users with valid SU or SUNY-ESF ID cards may use Libraries during operating hours. Only current SU and SUNY-ESF students, faculty, and staff may be present in Bird Library when open after 8 p.m. or before 8 a.m. All users should swipe their SU or SUNY-ESF ID card during these times. Security personnel make random checks during these hours. Food and beverage Food is only permitted in Pages Café and designated event areas in Bird Library. It is not permitted in Carnegie Library. Drinks in all libraries are limited to containers with secure tops. Smoking Smoking is not allowed on campus or in any building (see the University policy regarding smoking). Disruptive behavior Disruptive behavior (e.g., loud talking, audible use of personal electronic devices such as cell phones, etc.) that interferes with the study and research needs of others will not be tolerated. Offending individuals will be asked to cease their disruptive behavior. If they do not comply, they will be required by Libraries or Department of Public Safety staff to leave the building. Theft and mutilation Theft and mutilation of Libraries materials or other patron’s items are serious offenses, subject to fines, replacement costs and/or judicial action. Circulation policies Information about borrowing privileges for circulating and reserve materials, as well as policies about borrowing materials from other institutions through interlibrary loan, is available on the website. The Libraries report unpaid fines/fees to the bursar's office; they withhold future University registration privileges, transcripts and diplomas until fines/fees are paid. Circulation policies differ at the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Library, the Syracuse University College of Law Library and ESF's F. Franklin Moon Library. Posting of notices Notices, signs, etc. may be posted only on public/community bulletin boards and must adhere to guidelines for posting on community bulletin boards. The Libraries reserves the right to remove postings that are outdated, posted in locations outside bulletin boards or inappropriate. Copyright In supporting teaching, learning and research on campus, Syracuse University complies with all U.S. intellectual property laws, including the Copyright Law of 1976 (Title 17, United States Code), as enacted and amended. Animals Animals, except service animals that are trained or being trained to assist persons with disabilities, are not permitted in the Libraries. Privacy In recognition of an individual's right to privacy protected by New York State law, the Libraries does not release information about borrowers or materials borrowed, except as required by law. Children Libraries collections and services are not designed to meet the needs of children. During school field trips, children must be accompanied by school personnel. Children under the age of 18 who are not registered as students must be accompanied by an adult. More information is available on the Syracuse University Safety of Minors Abuse and Reporting policy. Non-motorized Vehicles Bicycles and other non-motorized vehicles are prohibited in the Libraries, in accordance with University Policy entitled "Non-Motorized Wheeled Vehicle Use on University Property." Privacy Policy Toggle Libraries' Information Gathering Practices Content Service Service Type Individual Information Required? University Information Required? Web site browsing Browsing only no no Web site browsing Authenticated services; often require University identification. Includes consultations with Copyright and Information Policy Advisor no yes Reference; On-campus, wireless use of online databases presumes prior authentication to University network In-person no no Reference; On-campus, wireless use of online databases presumes prior authentication to University network Online optional yes Catalog (SUMMIT) Browsing only no no Catalog (SUMMIT) Authenticated services; often require University identification no yes Circulation All no yes Interlibrary Loan All yes yes Online Databases; University information required to login On-campus no maybe Online Databases; University information required to login Off-campus no yes Technology Loan All yes yes Library Research Initiatives All optional optional Business Transactions; federal regulations may require taxpayer identification numbers for certain business transactions, including selling books All yes no Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.