Skip To Content University Libraries About Us Other Library Guests (Non-TAMU Affiliates) Other Library Guests (Non-TAMU Affiliates) All are welcome to use the Texas A&M Libraries’ collections by visiting us in person and using material within our buildings. Borrowing privileges for individuals not currently affiliated with the University are limited and may vary depending on the library used. See loan periods for Other Library Guests for: Evans Library & Annex Medical Sciences Library Policy Sciences & Economics Library Business Library & Collaboration Commons The descriptions below will help you identify which type of library guest you are and what is required to borrow library materials. Visiting Scholars Visiting Scholars are individuals employed by the university or who are sponsored by a specific department to receive faculty privileges for the length of their employment or sponsorship. To borrow library materials, you will need one of the following: A valid Texas A&M ID card. A letter from their department head on official stationary with their contract period and a current photo ID. Community Users To borrow library materials, Community Users will need one of the following and a current photo ID: A valid Texas A&M University library card. The cost is $15 per year for a community user. For more information see the Texas A&M University Library Card Application. A TexShare card from your local public library or from your college/university library if you are a student, staff, or faculty member at a participating Texas Institution. See What Is TexShare and TexShare's Find a TexShare Library page for more information about this service. Former Students To be eligible to receive a Former Student library card for checkout privileges you must have a degree from Texas A&M University and be in good standing with the University. As a former student, you may borrow up to five books for two weeks at a time and renew items once. To borrow library materials, you will need one of the following: A valid TAMU library card. There is no charge for this card. See Texas A&M University Library Card Application. A current photo ID. Proxy Users The proxy checkout option allows university faculty and staff to authorize other individuals to be able to check out library materials on their library records. Individuals who may be proxied to faculty or staff: Other staff members Graduate assistants Student workers on special assignment Family members (spouse, dependent children) The sponsoring faculty/staff member will receive any notifications (such as recall or overdue notices) and be responsible for the return of all materials checked out by an authorized proxy. Faculty/staff members must have a current University ID card (issued after 2004) and provide written authorization to set up any proxy access to their library account. The faculty/staff member can either bring the authorization form/letter to the main service desk at the Evans Library, have someone else deliver it, or send it through campus mail. If the letter is not delivered in person, the library will delay activation until a library staff member can contact the faculty/staff member and verify the proxy authorization. The authorization letter should contain the following information: Faculty/Staff member’s name. The Faculty/Staff member’s library account number (which is the TAMU UIN or newer 16 digit encoded TAMU ID number). The name and UIN (if available) of the individual being added to the Faculty/Staff member’s account. A signed statement of acknowledgement of the Faculty/Staff member’s responsibility for books checked out and fines accrued via the Proxy User option. When checking out material for the Faculty/Staff member, the proxy user needs to inform the service desk staff that he/she wishes to use the Proxy User option. Otherwise, the item will automatically be checked out to the individual’s student or courtesy user account. The proxy user must provide some form of picture ID and be able to provide other verification information (such as address) or their personal UIN upon request. Please note: The library does not screen materials from the general collections being checked out by minor family members based on appropriateness of content or subject matter. All faculty/staff must renew proxy authorization annually. Proxy User Authorization Form High School Students (School-Sponsored) Teachers may request limited services for high school students through the K-12 School Visitor program. If your school has not sponsored access to the library or if you are unsure, please contact AskUs. Friends of the Library Established in 1970 by Sterling C. Evans ’21 with his classmate Jeff Dykes ’21, The Friends of the Sterling C. Evans Library promotes understanding and appreciation of the University Libraries. Mr. Evans served as the first president and pioneered in collection building and fundraising. He championed the Libraries until his death at age 101. To borrow library materials, you will need one of the following: A valid TAMU library card. There is no charge for this card. See Texas A&M University Library Card Application. A current photo ID. TexShare Card Holders TexShare is a program of the Texas State Library and Archives Commission in partnership with academic and public libraries in Texas. A TexShare card can be used at participating libraries to check out materials for research and study needs. See All About TexShare and Find a TexShare Library for more information about this service. To borrow library materials, you will need the following: A TexShare card from your local public library or from your college/university library if you are a student, staff, or faculty member at a participating Texas Institution. A current photo ID. OCLC Card Holders Texas A&M University is part of OCLC, a non-profit, library support organization designed to improve access sharing across libraries worldwide. OCLC cards can be used at other participating libraries around the country to check out materials on-site for research needs. To borrow library materials, you will need the following: A current OCLC Card from your local public library or from your college/university library if you are a student, staff, or faculty member at a participating OCLC institutions. A current photo ID. Support the Libraries AskUs anything at anytime. Chat with Us Call Us Text Us @ 979-256-1091 Email Us About the Libraries Quick Phone & Mailing List Directory | Find my Librarian Employment Diversity Matters Site Map | Site Search Follow Us Facebook Twitter You Tube Instagram