Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Frequently Asked Questions about ILLiad » Log in to ILLiad » Guide to Interlibrary Loan Services at Brown University What is ILLiad? ILLiad is the electronic system used to request, track, and, in some cases, receive an item ordered for you by Interlibrary Loan (ILL). By logging into ILLiad, you are accessing your account, which associates your personal information with your requests. Is security a concern if I use a public workstation to access ILLiad? Yes, if you are concerned about the privacy of your interlibrary loan requests, you should: Take the same precautions used to protect your personal email accounts to protect your ILLiad account. When using a public access workstation, exit from the browser before you leave the workstation. What is electronic delivery? Many libraries ship photocopies of articles to us in electronic format. These articles are delivered to your ILLiad account. Who do I contact if I have problems with or questions about ILLiad? Interlibrary Loan is located on level one of the Rockefeller Library. You may stop by in person, call 401-863-2169, or email Interlibrary_Loan@brown.edu. Office hours are Monday – Friday, 8:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University