top of page Skip to Main Content menu homepage Search X Libraries list Archives & Special Collections home Art Library home Ekstrom Library home Kornhauser Health Sciences Library home Law Library home Music Library home University of Louisville Hospital home Accounts list Interlibrary Loan Off-Campus Login Renew Books Blackboard Cardinal Card Email My Print Center ULink Business Ops CardBox CardSmart Cards Career Connection UofL Folio X Search Site Site search Search U of L Libraries site GO Search Catalog homepage Libraries Archives & Special Collections Art Library Ekstrom Library Kornhauser Health Sciences Library Law Library Music Library University of Louisville Hospital Accounts Interlibrary Loan Off-Campus Login Renew Books Blackboard Cardinal Card Email My Print Center ULink Business Ops CardBox CardSmart Cards Career Connection UofL Folio University of Louisville UofL Libraries _University Libraries How we're keeping our libraries safe Home Site search Search U of L Libraries site search How we're keeping our libraries safe: Home Welcome back, Cards! We’re doing some things differently in the libraries this academic year to keep everyone safe. We’ve installed Plexiglas at service desks, reduced some library hours, and are providing low or no-contact check-out of books and other materials. Also, masks must be worn at all times while inside our library buildings in public spaces. We also request that everyone continue best practices suggested by the CDC: maintain social distancing, wash your hands frequently, and take necessary steps to prevent spreading the virus, even if you have no symptoms. Most importantly, stay at home if you are symptomatic or have other reasons to believe you may be contagious. Please continue reading for specific rules and hours for each of our University Libraries. Library Hours Archives & Special Collections Message Archives and Special Collections' research room is open Monday-Friday, 9:00-5:00, on a walk-in basis. We ask all visitors to adhere to the University's Health and Safety Protocols. Currently, masks are required in University of Louisville's public spaces, including libraries. For more information see our "Prepare for Your Visit" page. We continue to be open to all via virtual reference: by email and telephone (502-852-6752). And don’t forget you can explore images, interviews, newspapers, maps, and more via our Digital Collections and Oral History Center online. Music Library Message The Music Library is currently open regular hours to all. Circulation of materials is permitted. COVID-19 policies are posted at the library entrance. Please contact us at Music.Library@louisville.edu if you have any questions.. Ekstrom Library Building Hours Building hours. Building access is now open to the community. Masks are required while in the building. Check Out Materials The East and West Service Desks are open to provide you assistance. The service desk hours are different than our building hours. View West Service Desk Hours. If you have questions, contact contact Ekstrom AUS. Research Assistance As of Aug. 2, the Ekstrom Library Research Assistance office (1st floor) is open Monday-Friday, 9am-5pm. In addition to walk-up service, you can contact us by phone, email, or chat, or schedule an in-person or online appointment, using our Ask a Librarian page. Online Instruction Information literacy and library instruction is fully available for in-person and online classes. You can request instruction using our online form or contact Amber Willenborg for assistance. Kornhauser Health Sciences Library Masks are not required in the Kornhauser library unless you are experiencing symptoms of illness. Other important information about visiting the Kornhauser library. Additional hours available at the Ekstrom library on the Belknap campus. Law Library Message The Law Library will be open reduced hours. We will only be open to Law School students, faculty & staff with a UofL ID, and will not be circulating materials during this time. Ask Us ? top of page bottom of page Discover. Create. Succeed. Contacts Addresses Contact Form Frequently Asked Questions for all University Libraries Personnel Directory Site Site Index / Site Map Image Credits Privacy Sharepoint Follow UofL Libraries Facebook Twitter icon by Freepik University Libraries News on WordPress More social media icon Apply for admission to UofL Campus Maps IT HelpDesk Jobs at UofL Last Updated: Mar 14, 2022 1:08 PM Librarian Login