Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog How to... Borrow, Renew and Return Library Materials Connect with the library materials you need to get your work done. Borrow Loan Periods Renew, Return, Recall Fines & Fees Not affiliated with Harvard? Borrow When you access our library spaces and collections you are agreeing to abide by the Patron Agreement, which is outlined here. Materials Available at Harvard There are two ways for Harvard students, faculty and staff to borrow physical items available at Harvard's libraries. Search HOLLIS, the library catalog, to see if there is a physical copy available on campus and get it from the shelf. Maps and guides to library stacks are available at each library. In HOLLIS, request to pick up the item from the library of your choice. Book pick up requests are filled in 1 to 4 business days. Look for the "Request Pick Up" link in HOLLIS to submit your request. Tool HOLLIS HOLLIS is Harvard Library's catalog. Search HOLLIS for books, articles, media and more. Materials Not Available at Harvard If the materials you need are not available at Harvard, you still have options. BorrowDirect allows you to borrow materials from partner institutions. Requests are fulfilled in about 4 business days and must be picked up in person. If you can't find what you're looking for at Harvard or via BorrowDirect, try submitting an Interlibrary Loan request. Library staff will search other libraries for what you need. Articles requested via Interlibrary Loan can often be delivered within hours. Other materials usually arrive within two weeks. Interlibrary Loan materials must be picked up in person. Service BorrowDirect BorrowDirect is often the fastest way to borrow something not available at Harvard. It also gives you access to partner libraries. Service Interlibrary Loan Can't find the materials you need at Harvard? Submit an Interlibrary Loan request and we'll search libraries around the world. We also lend via ILL to other institutions. Tech Loan At many Harvard libraries you can borrow basic gear like headphones and laptop chargers. Just check in with a staff member to see what's available. A few libraries also have media production gear available for loan — everything from tripods and SD cards to 360 cameras and VR equipment. Service Tech Loan Access to laptops, chargers, 360 degree cameras, VR equipment and more for members of the Harvard community. Can't get to the library to pick something up? Try Scan & Deliver. It's a free electronic document delivery service for the Harvard community. Submit a request and we'll scan a journal article or book chapter and deliver it to you via email. Try Scan & Deliver Loan Periods Harvard Library materials are generally loaned for a semester at a time. Specific loan period details are noted with the item listing in HOLLIS. Renew, Return, Recall Here's what you need to know: Renew If no other library users have requested the regular loan materials you've checked out, the loan period will automatically be renewed up to five times. Return You can return circulating library materials to any Harvard library. Recall All regular loan materials are subject to recall at any time if another library user needs them. If an item you've checked out is recalled, we'll notify you via email. HOLLIS is where you can track your library loans, renew items, check due dates and more. After logging in, click your name in the top right corner, then "My Account." Ask a Librarian Looking for immediate help from our staff? Find answers to commonly asked questions and ask your own. Library staff members are also available via chat during posted hours. Ask us Fines & Fees Replacement fees for lost or long overdue materials vary depending on the item and the library. Fines for late return of course reserve items and other short term loans, such as tech loan items, also vary between libraries. If you have questions about library fines, contact the Harvard Library Billing Office via email or phone at 617-496-3015. Standard Overdue Fines: None. Recalled Materials: $3.00 per day, maximum of $45 per item. Reserve Materials and Other Short Term Loans: $3 per hour. Replacement Fee for Lost or Long Overdue Materials: Standard fees are $100 replacement cost, though this can vary. Not affiliated with Harvard? While Harvard Library primarily serves the Harvard community, there are ways for those not affiliated with Harvard to borrow materials. Visitors Researchers from other institutions are eligible to purchase a Borrowing Card from Harvard Library's Privileges Office. Borrowing privileges cost between $450 and $850 for access ranging from six months to a year. Senior discounts are available. Harvard Library also has several partnerships that allow researchers from partner institutions to access library materials free of charge. Visitor Access Options Interlibrary Loan If you need to borrow something that's only available at Harvard, contact your institution's library or your local public library and ask them to request the materials for you via Interlibrary Loan. Discover More at Harvard Library Looking for additional information on finding the materials you need? Try our how-to guides. How To Use Harvard Library as an Alum Access a growing number of electronic resources available to alumni and find out how to visit libraries. How To Use Harvard Library's Special Collections and Archives Open to all, these unique materials can take you to places you never expected. How To Get Remote Support for Research & Publishing Working away from your lab or campus office? Harvard Library can help. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.