<iframe height="0" src="//www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5LBRZK" style="display:none;visibility:hidden" width="0"></iframe> Skip To Content University Libraries Research Preservation Preservation What we do The Preservation Unit ensures the long-term access and sustainability of the Texas A&M University Libraries’ physical and digital collections for its diverse community of users. By preserving the integrity of the physical and digital artifacts, the Preservation Unit plays an integral role in the Libraries’ mission of providing quality information, services, and resources. Preservation Conservation Collections Care Digital Services Center Digital Preservation Facilities & Equipment Preservation Preservation seeks to provide the best possible environment in which to house and protect the collections of Texas A&M University Libraries. This element of the Preservation Unit is responsible for environmental monitoring, integrated pest management (IPM), disaster planning and recovery, commercial binding, general collections book repair and stacks maintenance. Close × Conservation Conservation provides services that focus on maintaining and stabilizing the University Libraries’ special collections and archival materials through physical treatments. Established in 2014, the Conservation division completes high level treatments on the vast collections held within Cushing Memorial Library and Archives and the Medical Sciences Libraries’ Historical Veterinary collection. The Conservation Lab includes state-of-the-art equipment for treatments as well as a dirty room for sanding and tools, a collections storage room, and a photodocumentation room. Though the lab focuses primarily on book and paper treatment, it has an intentional design flexibility to accommodate other conservation specialties, such as visiting textile and paintings conservators, to be able preserve the diverse range of materials in special collections. Close × Collections Care Collections Care works to prevent the deterioration of and ensure accountability for the cultural heritage items held in the Cushing Memorial Library and Archives. Through a close working relationship with the Cushing director and curators, we maintain and recommend improvements to storage conditions, assess and rehouse collections, assist in exhibit preparation, coordinate materials loans and fine arts insurance, and direct the collection inventory, among other tasks. As stewards of this extensive and diverse book, manuscript, photographic and art collection, it is our mission to protect and aid in access to the Libraries’ most treasured pieces. Close × Digital Service Center (DiSC) The Digital Service Center (DiSC) is a state-of-the-art digitization lab that provides reformatting, file conversion, and image processing services. DiSC digitizes Libraries and University materials for both access and preservation of digital content. DiSC utilizes high-end equipment to digitize oversized items, bound volumes, documents, rare books, microforms, film/negatives, and 3-D items. Close × Digital Preservation Digital Preservation is responsible for the long-term preservation of the University Libraries’ digital collections and ensures their integrity and accessibility through the development, implementation, and maintenance of formal processes, plans, and policies. Digital information of lasting value is safeguarded locally and in the Cloud. Close × Facilities & Equipment Preservation has over 11,000 square feet of space and includes the following facilities and equipment: Digital Service Center Audio/Video Reformatting Studio i2S Quartz 2A0 Large Format Scanner DT BC100 Dual Camera Book Scanner DT Atom Scanner w/Film Scanning Kit i2S CopiBook OS Scanner (5) nextScan flexScan Microforms Scanner Artec Leo & Space Spider 3D Scanners Contex Ultra 56-inch Wide-Format Scanner Nikon Super COOLSCAN 9000 ED Slide Scanner Epson Expression 10000XL Flatbed Scanner Book Repair Commercial Binding Flex Space Walk-in Freezer Quarantine Room Conservation Laboratory Chemical fume hood with independent extractor fume trunk MSC Paper Conservation Suction Table Document sink with Elix Advantage water purification lab system Ultrasonic-welder encapsulator Offices Storage Close Contact Preservation Telephone: 979-845-8847 Email: tamupreservation@library.tamu.edu The Team The Preservation Unit is staffed by a team of twelve faculty and staff members led by the Director of Preservation: Preservation Librarian General Collections Book Repair Manager Commercial Binding Manager Conservator Conservation Technician Collections Care Coordinator Collections Care Assistant Preservation Assistant Digital Preservation Librarian Digital Projects Student Supervisor Digital Service Center Supervisor Audio/Visual Digitization Specialist The Preservation Unit is also supported in its mission by a group of dedicated student workers and technicians. Support the Libraries AskUs anything at anytime. Chat with Us Call Us Text Us @ 979-256-1091 Email Us About the Libraries Quick Phone & Mailing List Directory | Find my Librarian Employment Diversity Matters Site Map | Site Search Follow Us Facebook Twitter You Tube Instagram howdy.tamu.edu Off-Campus Access Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Texas CREWS Comments Services Status