Clemson University A-Z Index Phonebook MENUMENU Find & Borrow Find Books, Articles & More Databases Journals Course Reserves Research & Course Guides WorldCat Borrow Technology Interlibrary Loan PASCAL Delivers Scan and Deliver Off-Campus Delivery Service Explore - State Park Passes Borrowing Privileges Unique collections Gunnin Architecture Library Digital Collections Education Media Center & Digital Media Learning Lab Special Collections and Archives TigerPrints Help Finding Library Materials Borrowing Help Offsite Shelving Circulation Policies Library Fines and Fees Proxy Card Service Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Research & Teaching Research Support Research & Course Guides Citation Management Subject Librarians Undergraduate Research Award Teaching Support Course Instruction Workshops Tutorials Course Reserves Open Educational Resources (OER) Digital Scholarship & Publishing Data Services Digital Projects Support Publishing & Copyright Clemson University Press Help Getting Started with Research Proxy Card Service Purchase Request Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Study & Create Study Spaces Library Locations Learning Commons Creative Spaces Adobe Digital Studio Brown Digital Lab Cooper Makerspace Digital Media Learning Lab Geospatial Center Scholars’ Lab Amenities Starbucks - Cooper Library POD - Cooper Library Reflection Room Help Find Printers & Scanners Academic Success Center CCIT Support Center Michelin Career Center Writing Lab Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions About Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Locations & Parking Floor Maps Our Organization Welcome from the Dean News Staff Directory Policies Accessibility Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Library Residents Program Strategic Plan Organizational Chart Libraries Reorganization Overview Cooper 2.0: A Vision for the Future Employment Opportunities Clemson Libraries Advisory Committee Library Depot Giving Giving Home Honor with Books Fund Friends of the Libraries Help Contact Us Records Management Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Make a Suggestion R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU My Account Giving Help Accessibility Clemson University Libraries are committed to providing access to materials for all patrons. R.M. Cooper Library The following services are provided at the main library: Parking and Entering the Building Accessible parking is available in the east and west parking lot. Patrons may use the door located on the ground floor, east side of the Library. An intercom/buzzer system is available to gain entry to the building. Locating and Retrieving Materials To assist with locating and retrieving materials, a page service is available through the Library Services Desk 864-656-1557. Patrons may also request items directly from the catalog by selecting the request option. Check Out and Return of Library Materials The far right side of the Library Services Desk is handicapped accessible. 24-hour book drops are located in the Cooper Library east parking lot. Library Services A variety of services are available electronically through the library’s web pages. You may need to use your Clemson UserID and password and be registered with the Student Accessibility Services Office. Contact the Library Services Desk at 864-656-1557 for more information. Intel Reader The library has an Intel Reader and scanner station available for checkout for students with disabilities. The reader may be checked out for 1 day with renewal possible depending on demand. Training is provided by the Student Accessibility Services Office. Please contact the Library Services Desk for more information. Video Phone The library has a videophone located on the west side of the 4th floor. The videophone allows the deaf and hard of hearing to easily communicate videophone-to-videophone or through an interpreter. Scanning There are three scanners on the west side of the 4th floor. For assistance with scanning, visit the Library Services Desk or call 864-656-1557. Reference and Research Assistance Assistance is available at the Library Services Desk. Stop by in person or call 864-656-1557. For in-depth research questions, you may be referred to a subject librarian. There are two wheelchair-accessible computer workstations in Learning Commons East on the 4th (main) floor. Limited reference service is provided through email, chat, or text message. Email requests may be submitted to ask@nullclemson.libanswers.com anytime and are answered within 24 hours on weekdays. Library Services Desk 864-656-1557 Chat/IM Visit “Ask A Librarian” to start a chat. E-mail Reference ask@nullclemson.libanswers.com Text 864-762-4884 Restrooms An accessible restroom is located on the 2nd floor. Education Media Center and Digital Media Learning Lab The Education Media Center and Digital Media Learning Lab are located on the second floor of Tillman Hall with elevator access from the ground floor or first floor auditorium ramp. Accessible parking spaces are located in front of Tillman Hall on Gantt Circle as well as in the parking lot behind Sikes Hall. Patrons may request assistance by contacting the service desk at 864-656-3741 or emclib@nullclemson.edu. Service animals are welcome but must be registered with the CU Access & Equity Office. Special Collections and Archives Special Collections and Archives is located on the lower level of the Strom Thurmond Institute Building with access through the south doors. There are accessible spaces located in the parking lot adjacent to the lower level. Access via the north doors of the upper level is not recommended for individuals in wheelchairs. There is a wheelchair-accessible workstation in the Reading Room of Special Collections. All material is retrieved by the staff in Special Collections and Archives and photocopying is performed by the staff. Architecture Library Gunnin Architecture Library has counters, computer stations, and printing stations within the guidelines set by the ADA for accessibility. In the event of special needs, the staff of the library will assist on a one-on-one basis. This assistance may include retrieval of materials by staff, opening the ground-floor doors to the main stacks, or performing limited photocopying. Clemson Libraries Websites Clemson Libraries strive to provide a beneficial and worthwhile web experience for all of our patrons. Continuing efforts are made not only to ensure that our sites follow Section 508 of the Americans with Disabilities Act, but also to be mindful of the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) recommended by the World Wide Web Consortium. We are also working to provide good web experiences for users independent of the devices being used to access our sites. Contacts If you have questions or need more information, please contact: Facilities Teri Alexander 864-656-5172 Library Web Pages Chris Vinson 864-214-6657 Information & Research Services Suzanne Schilf 864-656-6834 Architecture Library Christopher Chapman 864-656-3933 Special Collections and Archives Brenda Burk 864-656-5176 Human Resources Kristy Snider 864-656-0634 Education Media Center Tara Weekes 864-656-3741 Clemson University Libraries 116 Sigma Drive, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3027 Directory Employment Contact Us