My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) Libraries & Affiliates Social Work Library Directions to the Social Work Library Directions to the Social Work Library The Social Work Library is located on the 2nd floor of the Columbia School of Social Work at 1255 Amsterdam Avenue, between 121st Street and Morningside Drive. From Columbia's main entrance at College Walk (the pedestrian boulevard corresponding to West 116th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam Ave.), walk East along College Walk to Amsterdam. The building across Amsterdam on the northeast corner is the Law School. Cross Amsterdam and turn north, walking up to West 121th Street, to the School of Social Work. The library is on the second floor. NOTE: The entrance to this building is secured on evenings, weekends, intersessions, and holidays. You will need a Columbia I.D. to show a guard or to use in a swipecard reader to enter the building at these times. Entry to the libraries is secured at all times. Those without a Columbia I.D. should first visit the Library Information Office (LIO) 201 Butler Library for information on library privileges for non-affiliates. Social Work Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » 2nd Floor, School of Social Work 1255 Amsterdam Avenue New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 851-2194 E-mail: socwk@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » | Directions » Related Links Social Work Research Guide Social Agency Collection Social Work Writing Center Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian