<iframe height="0" src="//www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5LBRZK" style="display:none;visibility:hidden" width="0"></iframe> Skip To Content University Libraries About Us Giving Support the Libraries Giving Opportunities Make a General Gift Memorial/Honorary Gifts Support a Specific Library Mothers’ Club Library Endowment Preservation Our Collections Spaces Create an Endowment How to Give Naming Opportunities Join the Friends Mayo Circle Book Memorial Contact Us Make your gift now Adelle Hedleston '88 Development Manager University Libraries (979)862-4574 office (979)229-9299 cell adelle-h@tamu.edu Giving to Texas A&M University Libraries All Aggies will use the Libraries’ resources and facilities at one time or another during their time at Texas A&M University. As an academic research library with over 6 million volumes and electronic resources, it is our responsibility to create lifelong learners and support the learning mission of the University. To continue to build on our success of providing valuable resources, we rely on your support and financial contributions to ensure that we are able to meet the needs of our students, faculty and other scholars. To help, please contact us and we’ll help match your philanthropic passion with our funding needs. What We Do We are always available to help students achieve academic success, whether they use our facilities and physical collections or if they access our online resources. We inspire researchers by acquiring collections that support all disciplines and by reimagining our spaces so students have a place to create new ideas whether working independently or collaboratively. We are the keepers of the history of A&M, safeguarding but also making accessible our university’s archives and unique collections through both physical preservation and digitization. How You Can Help Campaign Funding Priorities Preservation From the iconic Aggie Corregidor Muster Flag to a first edition of Don Quixote or a textbook in our general collection, preservation safeguards our collections for future generations and allows both physical and digital access to resources for researchers. Spaces Creating transformational learning spaces that are imaginative and purposeful environments foster creativity, scholarship, study and collaboration. Collections Interacting with our unique collections, students, faculty and other scholars are able to develop groundbreaking research because we provide access to cutting edge resources. Contact Us For monetary gifts: Adelle Hedleston '88 Development Manager University Libraries (979)862-4574 office (979)229-9299 cell adelle-h@tamu.edu For Aggie Archives donations: Anton duPlessis Clinical Associate Professor Curator, Colonial Mexican Collection Director, Los Primeros Libros de las Américas Project Curator, Ragan Military History Collection Curator, Texas & Borderlands Collection 979-845-1951 duplessis@library.tamu.edu Support the Libraries AskUs anything at anytime. Chat with Us Call Us Text Us @ 979-256-1091 Email Us About the Libraries Quick Phone & Mailing List Directory | Find my Librarian Employment Diversity Matters Site Map | Site Search Follow Us Facebook Twitter You Tube Instagram howdy.tamu.edu Off-Campus Access Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Texas CREWS Comments Services Status