Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog How to... Transfer Your Historically Significant Records to the University Archives We collaborate with Harvard offices, programs, research centers, libraries, and museums to preserve records that reflect our history and community. Overview Identify Records for Transfer Prepare Records for Transfer Overview Harvard's administrative offices, academic programs, research centers, libraries, and museums serve an important role in the mission of the Harvard University Archives: to assist us in identifying, collecting, and preserving materials that broadly and comprehensively reflect our history and community, and to ensure the safety of our most vital University records. Working with Records Management and Archives staff, faculty, staff and administrators can help us identify those records that should be transferred to the University Archives at the correct time. Once these records are transferred to the Archives, they are stored securely by the staff and can be accessed by scholars and Harvard staff alike in accordance with University records policies. Records Management Services for Transfers Harvard University Archives Pusey Library, Harvard Yard Cambridge, MA 02138 United States email: archives_transfers@harvard.edu Phone number 617-495-5961 How To Manage Harvard University Records Guiding staff, faculty, and administrators on how to manage their records. How To Donate Your Materials to the Harvard University Archives Work with the Harvard University Archives to add your materials to Harvard’s intellectual, cultural, social, religious, and administrative history Service Offsite Records Storage Need to retain University records? Learn how to set up an account with Records Management Services and work with the Archives to arrange for storage at the Harvard Depository. Tool General Records Schedule A tool to help faculty, staff and administrators identify the types of records they may have in their offices and how long to archive and keep them. Identifying Records for Transfer How do you know what records to transfer to the University Archives? Harvard's General Records Schedule (GRS) can help you to identify the types of records you may have in your office and how long to keep them. Most entries in the GRS direct you to retain records for a specific number of years, after which they can be destroyed. Records that have historical value and may be appropriate for transfer to the University Archives are indicated in the retention plan by the phrases "contact archives" or "transfer to archives." If this is your first time using the GRS or if you would like a refresher, visit our Records Schedule Basics page (HarvardKey required). Once you've identified records for transfer, the next steps on this page outline how to transfer physical documents to the Archives. If you have questions about how best to handle digital records, contact us: archives_transfers@harvard.edu 617-495-5961 Preparing Records for Transfer 1. Ordering Archives Boxes To order boxes, email archives_transfers@harvard.edu. Box orders are linked to your office's Records Center account. If you don't already have an account, complete the records center contract (PDF). Archives staff can assist you in figuring out how many boxes you need to order and provide information on next steps for your transfer. 2. Packing Your Records Records that are ready for transfer to the Archives must be properly packed and labeled in order to be transported by the couriers to the Archives. Box Label Template (word) Records Center Checklist (PDF) Large archives transfers may also require you to have barcodes or pick-up slips attached to the boxes. Our staff can provide guidance on any additional requirements for special archives transfers. 3. Completing Your Transfer Paperwork You must complete an inventory of the materials you're sending to the Archives as well as get an authorization form signed by the head of your department. Archives Transfer Authorization (PDF) Archives Box Folder List (excel) Prize Papers Archives Inventory List (excel) Dissertations Archives Inventory List (excel) Student Records Archives Inventory List (excel) Theses Archives Inventory List (excel) 4. Requesting a Review and Transfer Once you have completed the paperwork, send it to archives_transfers@harvard.edu for review. Archives staff will review the paperwork, and if everything is correct we will make arrangements for the records to be picked up by Harvard University Mail Services and transferred to the Archives. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.