My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) About the Libraries Job & Internship Opportunities Job & Internship Opportunities Librarian Jobs Job Openings for Officers of the Libraries are posted on the Jobs at Columbia page. All applications for librarian openings must be submitted here. Officer of Administration and Support Staff Jobs Visit the Jobs at Columbia page to view an up-to-date list of support staff and office of administration positions. From that page, choose "Search Open Positions" and then choose "Libraries" from the drop-down Job Family menu. Student Jobs Students interested in applying for part-time student positions in the Libraries may fill out an application here and return to libcasuals@library.columbia.edu. If you have applied to a part-time student position within the Libraries and have received notice about moving to the next step in the hiring process, please visit this link and complete the applicable forms in order to be considered. Casual Employment form with signature Hire Non-Exempt Form with signature New Hire/Rehire form for Supervisors to complete Graduate Student Internships The Graduate Student Internship Program in Primary Sources is designed to enrich graduate studies and professional training in primary sources through an introduction to archival work, supplemented with a program of lectures, workshops and tours. Participating Columbia University Libraries include the Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library, the Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary, and the Rare Book & Manuscript Library. Graduate or professional students, currently matriculated at Columbia University, are eligible to apply. This is a paid internship. For more information and application guidelines, please see the Internship Program in Primary Sources page. The Digital Internships Program is open to graduate students wishing to collaborate with librarians and technologists working in digital scholarship on campus. Students are recruited through a competitive process and successful applicants will receive a stipend and hands-on experience working in the fields of Digital Publishing, Digital Humanities, Digital Music, Research Computing, Digital Data, or Geospatial Research. For more information and application guidelines, please visit the Digital Internships Program page. The Ask a Librarian Internship provides current and recently-graduated library school students with hands-on experience in various areas of academic librarianship. Interns will receive training and support from a librarian supervisor in order to assist users through the Ask A Librarian chat reference service. Additionally, interns will work with their supervisor to conduct a specific project, which can be conducted remotely or in-person, such as designing and delivering a workshop session, creating topical research guides, or processing special collections. For more information and application guidelines, please visit the Ask a Librarian Internship Program page. Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 All Libraries Staff Subject Specialists News Events & Exhibitions Maps & Directions Libraries Awards Strategic Directions Policies Workshops Drop-in Help Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian