CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Events & Exhibits Burke Library Events This list features events from the Burke Library and other Columbia University Libraries events of interest. Click "More information" on any event to register. Email burke@library.columbia.edu with questions. Loading events... other library workshops & events Loading events... TUTORIAL VIDEOS "From Books to Bytes: Navigating the Research Ecosystem" | an online learning course created by the Libraries in partnership with the Center for Teaching and Learning. "How-to Videos" | Recordings of past Burke Library workshops and step-by-step instructional guides More Events & Exhibits at Columbia... Workshops Exhibits & Library Programs Columbia Office of University Life Events All Columbia Events Past Exhibits at the Burke #LoveInAction CAROLYN KLAASEN’s look into activism in education explores the archives of the Union Commission and Union Assembly, and the Student Interracial Ministry, both of which were student-driven. The records of the Union Commission and Union Assembly document the school’s history roughly from 1968 to 1974 and are housed within the Union Theological Records, 1829- held by the Burke. The Student Interracial Ministry Records, 1960-1968, also held by the Burke, are a testimony to a student-run ministry in which students, congregations and community members from racially diverse backgrounds came together to be part of a radically different and truly immersive hands-on approach to ministry education. Carolyn’s exhibit will be on view from January 27, 2016 to May 16, 2016 on the 1st floor of the Burke Library. To celebrate the opening of this exhibit the Burke Library hosted a panel of Union Theological Seminary alumni/ae moderated by Carolyn, "We Cannot Remain Silent": Life Stories of International Human Rights Activism. This panel was done in partnership with Columbia's The Center for Human Rights Documentation & Research. You can view the panel in full here. Construction and Evolution of Union Theological Seminary Campus This exhibit features images from a small collection of photographs documenting the construction of Union Theological Seminary located in the Morningside Heights neighborhood of New York City. The third location for the Seminary, the buildings were constructed from 1908-1910. The collection is housed at the Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary, Columbia University in the City of New York. A Church is Born: Church of South India Inauguration The unification of the Church of South India in September 1947, depicted here through a filmstrip and commentary, is considered one of the most important in the Church Union movement. For the first time after centuries of division, churches with various ministries were brought together in a collective Episcopal Church. The reconciliation it reached between Anglicans and other denominations on the doctrine of apostolic succession is often cited as a landmark in the ecumenical movement. This exhibit depicts not only the road to unification in South India, but also the efforts that the Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary took to trace the history and ownership of the collection, while preserving and making the film available to researchers. The Quran in East and West: Manuscripts and Printed Books The online adaptation of a 2005 exhibition showcases a wide range of holdings concerning Islam in the Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary. The exhibition highlights Burke's collection of Qurans, while exploring Christian perceptions of Islam and the Quran between 1500 and 1900. The G.E.E. Lindquist Native American Photographs Collection Gustavus Elmer Emmanuel Lindquist (1886-1967) was a prominent figure in twentieth-century Protestant missions among Native Americans. Images in this digital collection date from 1909 to 1953, and are drawn from at least thirty-four States, as well as Mexico and Canada, and consists of individual and group portraits, landscapes, buildings (private residences, churches, parsonages, schools, and government structures), agricultural and industrial scenes, cemeteries, parades and pageants, leisure activities, weather events, modes of transportation, and living conditions across a variety of Native American communities. The Korean Independence Outbreak Movement Commonly referred to as the Samil Movement (literally "three one") for its historical date on March 1, 1919, the Korean Independence Movement was one of the earliest and most significant displays of nonviolent demonstration against Japanese rule in Korea. Wilbert Webster White Papers Dr. Wilbert Webster White was the founder in 1900 and President, 1900-1939, of Bible Teachers’ College, now New York Theological Seminary. He was renowned for his development of an inductive system of Bible Study, emphasizing knowledge of the Bible rather than knowledge about the Bible. His Papers contain an Address by him on the Biblio-centric Curriculum. Dr. White's papers, along with the records of Biblical Seminary and New York Theological Seminary, now form part of The Burke Library Archives (Columbia University Libraries) and present a remarkable resource for researchers. Jump to: Visitor Information | Burke Library Events | More Calendars | Past Exhibits Sidebar The Burke Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact Union Theological Seminary 3041 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 851-5606 E-mail: burke@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Burke Library Links About Staff Directions Access & Circulation Related Links Health Advisory Regarding COVID-19 Burke Library Blog Burke Library Friends Union Theological Seminary CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.