Skip to main content Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Menu Main navigation Explore Resources Knowledge Base Insights Programs Archives & Special Collections Secondary navigation About Us Ask a Question COVID-19 Update Search for: Breadcrumb Home About Us Library Policies Privacy Policies CUIMC Privacy Policy Use of the Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library (“the Library”) website is governed by the Columbia University Irving Medical Center Privacy Policy. Please read the policy before using this website. By accessing this website, you agree to be bound by the privacy policy and the terms of use. Website Cookie Notice The Library website uses cookies and similar technologies to understand and enhance visitors’ experiences. By accepting the website cookies you consent to the Library’s usage of cookies and similar technologies in accordance with the Columbia University Website Cookie Notice. If you reject the use of cookies, collection of your browsing data on the Library website will be respected but might also result in a less-satisfactory user experience. How We Use Cookies and Similar Technologies To understand how our website is used The Library, like most organizations on the Internet, tracks web browsing patterns to inform understanding of how the website is being used. Generic information is collected using “cookies,” which are text files placed on your computer, to evaluate usage patterns so that we can improve website content and user experience. The Library website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. Google Analytics uses cookies to help us analyze how this website is used. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website includes your IP address. This information will be transmitted to and stored by Google on its servers. Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity, and providing other services relating to Internet usage. Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google’s behalf. Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google. Accepting the use of cookies, you consent to the processing of data about you by Google in the manner and for the purposes described. To improve your experience The Library website uses technologies built into your web browser to store and retrieve data about your use of the website. The data is used to improve and customize your user experience. The stored data may include links that you have visited on the Library website and text you have entered into forms on the Library website. The data is stored only in your web browser. It is not collected by the Library, Columbia University, or any third party. It is not available in another browser or on a different device. However, the data is accessible to other users of the same device and browser. You can clear the data at any time through your browser’s privacy and security settings. Last updated 18 April 2022. Manage Web Cookie Preference You have accepted web cookies and related functionality. Reject web cookies You have rejected web cookies and related functionality. Accept web cookies Back to top Advancing meaningful engagement with information Contact Us Service Desk: (212) 305-3605 Interlibrary Loan: (212) 305-3605 Archives & Special Collections: (212) 305-7931 Send us an email Connect on Twitter (@CUIMClibrary) Visit Us Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Hammer Health Sciences Building, Lobby Level Columbia University Irving Medical Center 701 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 About Us Location and Hours Library Spaces Library Staff Library Accounts Library Policies Computing Resources Recommend A Library Purchase Columbia University Irving Medical Center © 2021 Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Manage Web Cookie Preference