Skip to main content University Archives Columbia News Navigation menu Home Search Browse by Date Acknowledgements Help Home Search Browse by Date Acknowledgements Help Columbia Record Search the Archive (1973-2016) Search Browse by date Browse by date Contacts If you are interested in republishing Columbia University Record content, please contact the Office of Communications and Public Affairs: papermissions@columbia.edu If you have comments or questions about the archive, please contact the University Archives at: uarchives@columbia.edu Send any problem reports to: ldpd-help@libraries.cul.columbia.edu. The original printed copies of the Columbia University Record are housed in Columbia University Archives. Featured Issue University Record 21 June 1985 About the Columbia Record Archive Welcome to the Archives of the Columbia University Record, a regular publication of what is now known as Columbia's Office of Communications and Public Affairs. Beginning as the University Record (September 1973-May 1975) and continuing to this day as the Columbia University Record (July 1975-present), this important university-wide publication is an incredibly rich resource of past Columbia activities, events, scientific research, trustee and faculty appointments, awards and honors, libraries news, departmental achievements, budget and financial reporting, faculty and staff updates, as well as containing informative profiles of campus personalities from 1973 to the present. Additionally, from 1980-Fall 2002 The Record regularly published a calendar of campus events which are not necessarily recorded elsewhere. Additional increments of recent printed issues (2016 and onwards) will be periodically digitized and added to the Archive in coming years. Pages have been scanned from original paper copies and digitized using state-of-the-art technology that provides full-page, searchable reproductions of articles, photographs, and advertisements. The goals of the Archive are to provide a public resource for Columbia University history and to preserve the past work of Columbia's Public Affairs Office. It is the result of a partnership between the Office of Communications and Public Affairs and Columbia University Libraries. © 2022 Office of Communications and Public Affairs. All rights reserved. Powered by Veridian Privacy policy Terms of use Manifest Alert × Help × Privacy policy × Terms of use × Edit ×