My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) About the Libraries Libraries Awards The Bancroft Prizes The Bancroft Prizes About the Bancroft Prizes in American History and Diplomacy The Bancroft Prizes are awarded annually by Columbia University in the City of New York. Under the terms of the will of the late Fredric Bancroft, provision is made for two annual prizes of equal rank to be awarded to the authors of distinguished works in either or both of the following categories: American History (including biography) and Diplomacy. The awards in a given year are for books published in in the previous year. The competition is open to all persons whether connected with Columbia University or not and whether citizens of the United States or any other country. Announcement of the awards will be made in the spring of the prize year. The word "American" is interpreted to include all the Americas, North, Central, and South; however, the award is confined to works originally written in English or of which there is a published translation in English. Volumes of papers, letters, and speeches of famous Americans, unless edited by the author, are not eligible. Autobiography comes within the terms of the prize, but books reporting on recent personal experiences of Americans, within a limited area both in time and geographically, are not considered eligible. Previous winners of the Bancroft Prize are eligible for an award in a later year. Browse Previous Award Winners Here The deadline has passed for submitting works published in 2021 for consideration for the Bancroft Prizes to be awarded in 2022. We are no longer accepting submissions. Thank you to all who submitted entries. Honoring the 2020/21 Recipients of the Bancroft Prizes News Mar 16, 2022 In the media The New York Times reports that scholars Mia Bay and Mae Ngai win the 2022 Bancroft Prize, considered one of the most prestigious awards in the field of American history. Mar 22, 2022 News Columbia historian Mae Ngai reflects on winning the 2022 Bancroft Prize for The Chinese Question, "the first book of Asian American history to be recognized with the Prize." Mar 22, 2021 News The Libraries awards the 2021 Bancroft Prize to two exemplary works in American history and diplomacy by accomplished historians Andy Horowitz and Claudio Saunt. Please contact bancroft-prize@library.columbia.edu with questions. Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 All Libraries Staff Subject Specialists News Events & Exhibitions Maps & Directions Libraries Awards Strategic Directions Policies Workshops Drop-in Help Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian