Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. McFarlin Home HOURS ASK US MY LIBRARY ACCOUNT Search the library website Go! ABOUT Events Fines & Fees History of McFarlin Library Hours Maps & Directions Message from the Dean Mission Staff Directory Welcome to the Library Video FIND MATERIALS ★ Search Summon ★ A-Z Database List Classic Catalog Course Reserves List Journal List Research Guides Textbook Reserves List GET HELP Ask a Librarian / Contact Us FAQ Quick Tips Videos Schedule a Virtual Appointment INFORMATION FOR Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate Students International Students Remote Learners Undergraduate Students Visitors LIBRARY SPACES Computer Lab & IT Help Desk Faculty Resource Center Group Study Rooms iClassrooms Writing Center SERVICES Book & Material Pickup Form Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Suggest a Purchase SPECIAL COLLECTIONS STUDENT JOBS COVID-19 GUIDE MORE LIBRARIES HCAR (Gilcrease Museum) MLIC (Law Library) McFarlin Library LibGuides FAQ Access to the Library Enter Search Words Search FAQ Access to the Library Borrowing/Renewing Materials Library Collections Computers & Computer Lab Library Building & Facilities Research Materials Library Services Special Collections Ask Us! FAQ - Access to the Library - Select a Question -Is McFarlin Library open to the public?May TU Alumni use the library?When is the library open?Where is the library located on campus?Can I access the Library databases from home?What about the electronic journals? Can I get to them from home?May I make a donation to McFarlin Library?How do I contact the Library? Ask us a question! Is McFarlin Library open to the public? McFarlin Library is not open to the general public. Visitors and other individuals who wish to use the facility must check in at the Library Service Desk. Individuals are allowed one free library visit per year for research and evaluation purposes. Individuals interested in additional use of the library should check our visitors page for more information. Computer Lab facilities are restricted to current TU students, faculty, and staff. Visitors are allowed in the building Monday-Friday 8 a.m. - 5 p.m., provided the library is open. This includes: individuals using their free yearly visit, those who have paid for more frequent access to the building and those visiting the Department of Special Collections and University Archives or the government repository. Special Collections is open to the public Monday - Friday 8 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. (excluding holidays). For more information on using Special Collections, please visit their website, call 918-631-2496 or check the Special Collections FAQ. For access to the freely available materials in Government Documents, please check the information at the Documents website or call 918-631-2871 May TU Alumni use the library? Yes, Alumni of The University of Tulsa are allowed individual access to the building Monday-Friday 8 a.m. - 5 p.m., provided the library is open. Access to the databases is not included. There is an $60 annual fee only if you want check out privileges. See the alumni page or call 918-631-2871 for more information. When is the library open? Current library hours are available here. Where is the library located on campus? McFarlin Library is located in the center of campus at The University of Tulsa. McFarlin is building #28 on the campus map. The University of Tulsa's website provides complete driving directions to the University for visitors coming from different directions. Can I access the Library databases from home? Yes, current students, faculty, and staff of The University of Tulsa have full access to all the library’s online products when not on the TU campus. McFarlin uses a proxy server. You must access the databases by going through the library's website or the library's database list. Try checking this guide for more information. If you should have any problems, please contact Charles Brooks at 918-631-3793. You may also call the Library Service Desk at 918-631-2871. What about the electronic journals? Can I get to them from home? Yes, but you will need to get to them through the library catalog or the journal list. Try checking this guide for more information. The library's e-journal collection is available off-campus only to current students, faculty, and staff of The University of Tulsa. May I make a donation to McFarlin Library? If you wish to make a contribution to McFarlin Library for library acquisitions, in memory of an individual or to honor a graduating student, please visit our Giving to McFarlin page for details. Your support is deeply appreciated. How do I contact the Library? Contact McFarlin Library Email: mcfarlinlibrary@utulsa.edu Text: 224-357-6350 (22helpme50) Phone: 918-631-2871 Contact Special Collections Email: speccoll@utulsa.edu Phone: 918-631-2496 Next: Borrowing/Renewing Materials >> Last Updated: Apr 19, 2022 11:23 AM URL: https://libraries.utulsa.edu/FAQ Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem About Events Fines & Fees History of McFarlin Library Hours Maps & Directions Message from the Dean Mission Staff Directory Welcome to the Library Video Find Materials ★ Search Summon ★ A-Z Database List Classic Catalog Course Reserves List Journal List Research Guides Textbook Reserves List Get Help Ask a Librarian / Contact Us FAQ Quick Tips Videos Schedule a Virtual Appointment Information For: Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate Students International Students Remote Learners Undergraduate Students Visitors Library Spaces Computer Lab & IT Help Desk Faculty Resource Center Group Study Rooms iClassrooms Special Collections Writing Center More Libraries HCAR (Gilcrease Museum) MLIC (Law Library) Services Book & Material Pickup Form Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Suggest a Purchase Site Policies Digital Accessibility Policy The University of Tulsa · McFarlin Library · 2933 East 6th Street · Tulsa, OK 74104-3123 · (918) 631-2871 · Facebook Library Staff Login (Libguides) · Print this page