Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Circulation Policies Skip to Main Content Section Menu Library Access Home Faculty/Professional Staff Students University Staff University Affiliates Alumni Visitors Circulation Policies Your Account Renewing Material Requesting Material from Offsite Locations Patron Confidentiality Course Reserves Limited Access Note PUL is allowing a limited number of visitors with urgent research needs and a connection to the Princeton research community. To submit a request for consideration, please visit the EHS visitor page and complete the form linked on the right. Your sponsor must be a Princeton University faculty member, staff member, or graduate student. Please note that the Library will need to approve this form, not the sponsor's department head. Send completed forms to refdesk@princeton.edu and include the collections that are required to complete on-site research. Allow three business days for review of requests. Special Collections is accepting appointments for non-Princeton researchers on a very limited basis. Visitors interested in researching within Special Collections must first contact the department through their Ask Us! form. Requests to visit Special Collections will only be considered through this form. Contact Circulation staff in Firestone Library at fstcirc@princeton.edu or (609) 258-3202 with questions or for information not covered in the policies listed below. Identification All library users must present a valid identification card to access the collections. Princeton students, faculty, and staff must present their University ID card (TigerCard) in order to borrow materials from the Library. Non-University "guest" borrowers must obtain a photo-ID card from the Access Office. Loss or theft of an identification card should be reported immediately to the nearest Circulation Desk. All cards, except those issued to organizations, are non-transferrable. Bearers of access-only cards are not eligible for certain library services such as tracing missing books, using reserve material, requesting items through interlibrary loan or borrow direct, and retrieving books that have been received but are not yet processed. They may use electronic resources on-site (see Visitor Access to Electronic Resources). Remote access is limited by licensing agreement to current Princeton University faculty, staff and students. Borrowing Privileges All Princeton University faculty, staff, and students, their spouses, domestic partners and dependents, the faculty and students of Princeton Theological Seminary, and the members and staff of the Institute for Advanced Study are eligible to borrow books and other material from the Princeton University Libraries. Other individuals or entities who wish to use the library collections should contact the Access Office in Firestone Library by email at access@princeton.libanswers.com or by telephone at (609) 258-5737. Borrower Responsibilities Items charged out on a personal identification card remain the responsibility of the individual named on that card. All eligible borrowers are expected to have a current postal and e-mail address on file with the Library. Borrowers are responsible for recalls at all times. If circumstances require individuals to leave town, they should make arrangements for responding to the recall and the prompt return of the item(s) to the Library. Items charged to an individual must be returned in good condition, without evidence of defacement, mutilation, or other damage. Loan Periods Loan periods vary in different libraries and by borrower status. Please select your appropriate library status on the left of this page to see the loan period to which you are entitled. Please note that some material does not circulate. Some examples of materials that do NOT circulate are reference books, books from the Marquand library, as well as books in Graduate Study Rooms in Firestone. All materials are subject to be recalled if needed for course reserve. Books Not Found in the Stacks (Traces) If you cannot locate an item in the stacks and it is not checked out, patrons with borrowing privileges may request a search by completing a "trace" request online. A full trace for a missing book may take several days, however many of these books are found within 2 business days. You will be notified of the results of the trace. If an item is missing and you are eligible to use the services, you may request it through Borrow Direct, a rapid book borrowing and delivery service, or Interlibrary Loan. Recalls All patrons are responsible for honoring recall requests and are subject to recall fines at all times of the year. In the event an item is recalled, a notice is generated with the new due date and sent to the current borrower. The current borrower will have up to ten days from the date on which the recall is placed to return the recalled item. Failure to return a recalled item by the new due date will incur a fine of $1.00 per day, and the borrower will be prevented from borrowing again until the item is returned. As an alternative to a recall, faculty, staff, and students are encouraged to request items through Borrow Direct or Interlibrary Loan. Fines and Lost Book Fees Most borrowers are subject to fines for the late return of Library books and other materials. For non-reserve items, these fines are $0.25 per day. Reserve fines are higher, typically $1 per hour; consult individual libraries for more information. Unpaid fines of $20 or more will result in the suspension of borrowing privileges for most patrons. Library fines can be paid at the Firestone Circulation Desk by credit card. If a book is long overdue or damaged, a minimum replacement fee of $100 will be applied to your account. This fee includes the replacement and processing of the item. The Library reserves the right to adjust this replacement fee upward if the cost of the replacement is higher. In some libraries you may replace the lost item with a new book of the same edition and pay a $50 processing fee. Please consult with a circulation supervisor concerning lost items. Confidentiality Princeton University Library records relating to an individual patron's use of the Library and its resources are confidential. Please read the Library’s Policy on Confidentiality of Library Patron Records. Get Help Ask a Librarian Email a Librarian Find Your Subject Librarian Phone Research Guides Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top