Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback New York Times at Brown Help Page How do I access the New York Times through the Brown site license? To get started, follow the instructions below. All users must complete a one-time registration to initiate their access. Go to https://nytimes.com/passes Click on “Register” to create a NYTimes.com account using your Brown email address. You must use your Brown email address. At the bottom of the welcome page, click “continue.” You will then see “check your e-mail.” Look for NYT’s message, “Confirm Your E-Mail Address,” which should arrive within 15 minutes. Click on the link in the email. This will simultaneously verify your eligibility and grant your first NYTimes.com Academic Pass. The pass is good for 1 year. Once the initial registration is completed, and a “pass” selected, you will be able to access https://www.nytimes.com from any location. You will only need to log in again if you actually log off from the NYTimes.com site. Renewal of the Academic Pass: The NYT Academic Pass is good for 12 months and is renewable; you do not need to register again. Renew your Academic Pass in five easy steps: Go to https://nytimes.com/passes and click on “create account.” Click on “log in here” to log in using your Brown email address. If you have forgotten your password, click the adjacent link to recover it. Click on “login.” When the login is complete, you will see your new expiration date and have the opportunity to put your expiration date into your calendar. You will also see “Check your e-mail.” Look for NYT’s email message to you, “Confirm Your E-Mail Address,” which should arrive within 15 minutes. Click on the link in the email. This will verify your email address, and grant you access to the New York Times. You are set for another 12 months. Why use the Academic Pass to read the NYTimes web edition? On March 28, 2011, the New York Times began charging for access to its web edition. Most people, except for those with subscriptions, are capped at viewing 10 articles each month before charges take effect. The Academic Pass gives you access to content without the cap. I already have a NYTimes.com digital subscription. What do I do? If you have an existing paid NYTimes.com digital subscription, you are not eligible for an Academic Pass. You should continue to access the Times via your own subscription. Should I cancel my existing digital subscription to make use of the Brown site license? The Brown Academic Pass site license has some restrictions that your personal subscription may not have. Also, the Library is not guaranteeing access beyond one year at this time. Consider the options carefully before deciding one way or another. What are the restrictions? Site license access does not include all of the NYTimes apps, ereader editions, Premium Crosswords, or crossword apps. Site license users do not have the ability to share their digital access. Access to articles from 1987 to date is unlimited, but access to articles from 1923–1986 is limited to 5 per 24-hour period. Additional restrictions may apply. Can I access the Times off-campus? Yes, as long as you have registered using your Brown.edu email address and obtained your Academic Pass. I have a NYTimes.com account linked to my Brown email, but I don’t subscribe. Will I be able to access the Times from that account? Yes, but you will need to log in using the URL above, have your Brown.edu email address verified, and pick up your Academic Pass. You will not need to register for another NYTimes.com account. Why am I asked to log in on some occasions and not others? This may be because your browser may clear its web cache/history if it is set to do so. In such cases you will need to log back in to NYTimes.com, but there is no need to get another Academic Pass. I am a Brown alum, but not a current student, staff, or faculty member. Will I have access? No. Only current students, faculty, and staff will have access via the Academic Pass. Does the Library have other New York Times resources? The Library offers a number of other ways to search and view current and historical content of the New York Times online. From the Library’s homepage (https://library.brown.edu/), use the Quick Link to Ejournals and search for “New York Times” to see all of the online options. I still need help! You may also contact the Library at eresources@brown.edu for assistance. Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University