Skip Main Navigation Eventbrite Browse Events Organize Why Eventbrite? Pricing Resources Help Find your tickets Contact an event organizer Visit the help center Create an event Menu Organize Help Create an event Log in Sign up Help Create an event Log in Sign up Log in Sign up Page Content $45 Jun 14 Reading and Signing with Steve Berry by Clemson University Libraries $45 Actions and Detail Panel $45 Tickets Date and time Tue, June 14, 2022 7:00 PM – 8:00 PM EDT Location AT&T Auditorium, CU-ICAR Campus -- Greenville 5 Research Drive Greenville, SC 29607 View map Refund policy Contact the organizer to request a refund. Eventbrite's fee is nonrefundable. Hear Steve Berry give a reading and get your book signed! About this event Clemson Libraries and Fiction Addiction are excited to host international best-selling author Steve Berry, reading from his new novel The Omega Factor, Tuesday, June 14, in the AT&T Auditorium on the CU-ICAR campus in Greenville. Tickets are $45 and include a hard-back copy of The Omega Factor, as well as admission to a book signing with Berry following the reading. About the book The Ghent Altarpiece is the most violated work of art in the world. Thirteen times it has been vandalized, dismantled, or stolen. Why? What secrets does it hold? Enter UNESCO investigator, Nicholas Lee, who works for the United Nations’ Cultural Liaison and Investigative Office (CLIO). Nick’s job is to protect the world’s cultural artifacts—from countless lesser-known objects to national treasures. When Nick travels to Belgium for a visit with a woman from his past, he unwittingly stumbles on the trail of the twelfth panel for the Ghent Altarpiece, stolen in 1934 under cover of night and never seen since. Soon Nick is plunged into a bitter conflict, one that has been simmering for nearly two thousand years. On one side is the Maidens of Saint-Michael, les Vautours, Vultures, a secret order of nuns and the guardians of a great truth. Pitted against them is the Vatican, which has wanted for centuries to both find and possess what the nuns guard. Because of Nick the maidens have finally been exposed, their secret placed in dire jeopardy—a vulnerability that the Vatican swiftly moves to exploit utilizing an ambitious cardinal and a corrupt archbishop, both with agendas of their own. From the tranquil canals of Ghent, to the towering bastions of Carcassonne, and finally into an ancient abbey high in the French Pyrenees, Nick Lee must confront a modern-day religious crusade intent on eliminating a shocking truth from humanity’s past. Success or failure — life and death — all turn on the Omega Factor. About the author Steve Berry is the New York Times and #1 internationally bestselling author of 20 novels. His books have been translated into 41 languages with over 25,000,000 copies in 52 countries. They consistently appear in the top echelon of The New York Times, USA Today, and Indie bestseller lists. Somewhere in the world, every thirty seconds, one of his novels is sold. Steve was born and raised in Georgia, graduating from the Walter F. George School of Law at Mercer University. He was a trial lawyer for 30 years and held elective office for 14 of those years. He is a founding member of International Thriller Writers—a group of nearly 6,000 thriller writers from around the world—and served three years as its co-president. Tags United States Events South Carolina Events Things to do in Greenville, SC Greenville Appearances Greenville Arts Appearances Share with friends Save This Event Log in or sign up for Eventbrite to save events you're interested in. Sign Up Already have an account? Log in Event Saved Site Navigation Use Eventbrite How it Works Pricing Event Blog Plan Events Online Registration Sell Event Tickets Event Management Software Find Events Browse Greenville Events Get the Eventbrite App Connect With Us Report This Event Help Center Terms Privacy CA Privacy Notice Accessibility Community Guidelines Eventbrite © 2022 Eventbrite Copy Link Copy Event URL Social Settings Events are social. Allow Facebook friends to see your upcoming events? Yes (Recommended) Yes (Recommended) No, keep my events secret No, keep my events secret Save