My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) About Our Collections Distinctive Collections Distinctive Collections At this time, onsite special collections are available for research by appointment for current Columbia faculty, students, and staff. Please contact the relevant special collections repository library to make a research appointment. Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Located in Avery Hall, the Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library collects books and periodicals in architecture, historic preservation, art history, painting, sculpture, graphic arts, decorative arts, city planning, real estate, and archaeology. The Library contains more than 250,000 volumes and receives approximately 1,500 periodicals. Contact: avery@library.columbia.edu Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Located on the campus of Union Theological Seminary, the Burke Library is the largest theological library in the western hemisphere, containing rich collections for theological study and research. With holdings of over 700,000 items, the Library is recognized as one of the premier libraries in its field and includes extensive holdings of unique and special materials. Contact: burke@library.columbia.edu C.V. Starr East Asian Library Located in Kent Hall, the C. V. Starr East Asian Library is one of the major collections for the study of East Asia in the United States, with nearly 750,000 volumes of Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Tibetan, Mongol, Manchu, and Western-language materials and over 5,000 periodical titles. Contact: starr@library.columbia.edu Rare Book & Manuscript Library Located in Butler Library, the Rare Book & Manuscript Library (RBML) is Columbia’s principal repository for rare and unique materials, with holdings that span four thousand years of recorded knowledge, from cuneiform tablets to early printed books and born-digital archives. Each year RBML welcomes thousands of researchers and visitors to their reading room, exhibitions, programs, and classrooms. Contact: rbml@library.columbia.edu Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Archival Collections Portal Digital Collections & Online Exhibitions Distinctive Collections E-Resources Oral History Portal Web Archives at Columbia Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian