CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Access, Circulation, Fines, & Lost Materials Access to The Burke Library | Disability Accommodations | Fines & Lost Materials | Alumni Circulation Policies: by Material Type | by Patron Category Access to The Burke Library The library access information below conforms to the general access policies of Columbia University Libraries. For more complete information about access to The Burke Library, please contact the CU Libraries Library Information Office located in Butler Library, or The Burke Library directly. Please note that a $20 fee for a picture ID may be charged. A map to the Library Information Office can be found here. Back to top Accessibility & Disability Accommodations Columbia University is committed to ensuring that the services and programs offered by the Libraries and CUIT are accessible to all patrons. The University works with patrons on an individual basis to assess their unique accommodation needs. If you have any questions, please contact the Access Services Division liaison, Mayra Melendez, at (212) 854-3536 or mm57@columbia.edu. See also Disability Services at Columbia University Libraries. Alumni Access Please visit the Alumni Services page for Columbia University Libraries. Circulation Policy by Material Type Type of Library Material Circulation Restriction General Collection CU and UTS Faculty, Graduate students, and CU Undergraduates: Semester. New York Theological Seminary, Jewish Theological Seminary, and Law: 4 weeks Heath Sciences Library: 3 weeks Reserve materials 3 hours Periodicals Microforms Reference books Periodicals and Reference Books are Library use only. Microforms circulate and will be loaned for what is deemed a reasonable amount of time. Library does not have microform readers. AV materials 4 days Archives Library use only. Consultation by appointment. Contact burkespecial@library.columbia.edu or (212) 851-5608 Rare Books Library use only. Consultation by appointment. Contact burkespecial@library.columbia.edu or (212) 851-5608 Back to top Circulation Policy for General Collection by Patron Category Patron Category Circulation Restriction CU and UTS Faculty Semester CU and UTS Graduate Students Semester CU and UTS Board of Trustees Semester CU Undergraduates Semester CU and UTS Visiting Scholars Semester CU and UTS Staff Semester CU and UTS Fee-paying Alumni/ae 4 weeks GTS Faculty and Students & UTS Adjunct Faculty 4 weeks (with valid CU/UTS ID--contact The Burke Library for details) Back to top Fines & Lost Materials at The Burke Library Fines are charged for overdue materials and replacement costs are assessed for lost/damaged materials. Material Category Fines Assessed Fines for non-reserve materials $0.25/day with a maximum fine of $7.50/item $1.00/day for recalled materials with a maximum fine of $30.00/item Fines for reserve materials (3-hour loan period) $1.00/hour with a maximum fine of $50.00/item Fines for reserve materials (4-day loan period) $1.50/day with a maximum fine of $50.00/item Charges for lost/damaged materials If an item is not returned and the Library considers it lost, the standard replacement fee is $70.00 plus $30.00 for processing. Please note that these fees will be added to the fines for overdue materials. Fees for out-of-print and rare materials may be higher. Back to top Sidebar The Burke Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact Union Theological Seminary 3041 Broadway New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 851-5606 E-mail: burke@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Burke Library Links About Staff Directions Access & Circulation Related Links Health Advisory Regarding COVID-19 Burke Library Blog Burke Library Friends Union Theological Seminary CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.