Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Visitors Visitors Page featured image content Welcome to Syracuse University Libraries Page main body content Welcome to Syracuse University Libraries. For those who wish to make use of the Libraries' collections and/or facilities, Syracuse University Libraries include: Bird Library, Carnegie Library and King + King Architecture Library. Syracuse University College of Law Library, the Martin Luther King Jr. Library (in the College of Arts & Sciences) and the F. Franklin Moon Library (SUNY-ESF) operate separate from SU Libraries. Visitor Information Toggle Visiting the Libraries Content The Libraries are typically open to the public Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Only those with a valid SU or SUNY-ESF ID may be in the libraries outside of public hours. The Office of Public Safety monitors and checks for identification outside public hours. Parking and Transportation There is Visitor Parking Information available for campus visitors. There is also public metered parking available on the Waverly Street side of Bird Library. Pay parking is available in the Comstock Ave. garage at the corner of Waverly and Comstock Avenues, in the University Avenue Garage at the corners of University Avenue and East Adams and Harrison Streets, or in the Sheraton Hotel parking garage at the corner of University and Waverly Avenues. CENTRO, the public bus transportation in Central New York, services from a bus stop located on the Waverly Street side of Bird Library. For information about bus routes that stop at this location, visit CENTRO. There is also a CENTRO bus stop located on College Place. Syracuse University is east of Exit 18 from Interstate Route 81 (north-south), which links with the NYS Thruway (Route 90, east-west). Use Google Maps for detailed directions. Accommodations Food and lodging in the Syracuse University area Toggle Accessibility Services Content Information on Syracuse University's Accessibility Services. Bird Library has ramps and curb cuts leading to both of its main entrances on the north and south sides of the building. These entrances are equipped with automatic door openers. Elevator service is available on every floor of Bird Library, and all elevators are equipped with Braille-encoded elevator buttons. Carnegie Library has an automatic door opener on the east side of the building. A ramp inside this entrance leads to the first door, which also has an automatic door opener. An elevator is off of that corridor. The main service point is on the second floor. Elevator service runs to the 2nd and 3rd floors but is not available for the 4th floor storage area. Library staff retrieves materials from the 4th floor and mezzanine areas for students who cannot access this area. Toggle Borrower and Computer Access Content Individuals may apply for a Guest Borrow account for a fee of $25/month, $50/semester or $100/year. You must register in advance to receive Guest Borrower Privileges to check out materials. Free services to visitors include: You are welcome to use the Libraries' collections for research and study purposes. These materials include collections housed in library stacks; government documents; reference collections; current periodicals and newspapers; and microform collections. Users can access the library catalog through quick look-up stations located on floors 1-5 in Bird Library and on the 2nd floor of Carnegie Library. Depository collections of U.S. government publications and assistance using them are freely available to all visitors. With the exception of Federal Depository Library collections, SU Libraries may give priority in service to University-affiliated users and may limit visitors' access to selected facilities, collections and services. For access to resources in the Special Collections Research Center, please contact scrc@syr.edu. Not Available to Visitors Interlibrary loan Course reserve materials Data restricted by licensing agreements Certain media materials Media Services workstations, except when viewing government publications Request and Hold service Locker pickup service University research library collections and services are not designed to meet the needs of younger students or children. For this reason, visitors younger than age 18 should be accompanied by an adult. Toggle Campus Wireless Network Content Visitors are asked to use the campus wireless network, AirOrangeGuest, while in the Libraries. Personal hotspots interfere with the effectiveness of the campus network. Toggle Groups and Tours Content Group tours of the SU Libraries and instructional sessions for students or groups of high school age or older may be arranged by calling the Instructional Services Department at 315.443.2730 at least two weeks in advance of the intended visit. The Libraries schedule such tours and sessions during times that do not conflict with campus academic needs. To schedule a tour or instructional session with Special Collections Research Center, please complete the online request form with at least three weeks notice. For further information, please contact scrcinstruction@syr.edu or call 315.443.2697. Toggle Special Collections Research Center Content Access to Special Collections is provided by appointment only in our reading room, which is located on the 6th floor of Bird Library. To schedule a visit, complete the Visit Request Form. We recommend making your appointment two weeks in advance, as most of our collections are housed offsite. Please request any audiovisual materials four weeks in advance to allow time for any necessary conservation treatment and digitization. For more information, see the Visit SCRC page. Toggle Visiting or Sponsored Researchers Content Visiting Researchers from other educational institutions formally associated with an SU academic department can work with their sponsored department to gain library privileges. Those not affiliated with SU may apply for access to the Libraries' computers for a specific research project for up to two weeks. To apply, complete theVisiting Researcher Computer Access form. Sponsored Researchers are formally sponsored by an SU academic department or unit and have been assigned an SU I.D. for a defined period of time. To apply for this access, complete and submit a Sponsored Researcher Access Form. Books can be borrowed for up to 1 year Compact Discs can be borrowed for up to 21 days Videos/DVDs and Games can be borrowed for up to 3 days Access to Remote Database Interlibrary Loan Library Computer Use Right aside items Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 315.443.2093 Map It Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.