Off-Campus Access | Library A–Z | Hours & Locations Search: Search BruKnow Library Website WorldCat Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Brown University Library Collections Magic and Occult Collections Select a different subject group Africana Alcohol and Addiction Studies American Culture and Society Art and Architecture Asian Studies Author Collections Book Arts Brown University Archives & History Business Children's Literature Disability Studies Early Printed Books Economics Education European Studies Fine and Decorative Arts Gender and Sexuality Studies Graphic Arts History (Non-United States) History (United States) History of Medicine History of Science, Mathematics, Technology Iberia, Latin America, and Latino Indigenous Studies Language & Literature, Non-Western LGBTQ Literature (Non-United States) Literature (United States) Magic and Occult Manuscript Collections Middle Eastern Studies Military History and Iconography Museum Objects Collections Performing Arts Political Science Printing and Publishing History Race and Ethnicity Religion Rhode Island/Local Interest Russia and Eastern Europe Science Fiction and Fantasy South Asia Women Return to Collections A to Z Index Atwood (Mary Anne) The Mary Anne Atwood Papers contains about 700 letters and manuscripts for the period 1882-1910. Most of the letters in the collection are written from M.A. Atwood to Mme. Isabelle de Steiger. The collection also includes other letters written and received by Atwood, manuscript drafts and notes. According to the admirers of Mary Anne Atwood, "Mrs. Atwood was truly an adept [of the metaphysical tradition]. The last one." "The Atwood material is very important for the study of a vanished Britain, when Neo-Platonism and High Ideas influenced the nation. But, as Mrs. Atwood says, they went in for power and threw their spiritual heritage out the window." ...more information Brethen (Bob) The Bob Brethen Papers consist primarily of type-written descriptions of magic tricks. Most common are card tricks, mental tricks, including jinx card tricks, ESP, psychic routines, and memory and number tricks. This collection was originally part of the Smith Magic collection, but has been removed to stand on its own. ...more information Davis (Sonia H. and Nathaniel A.) Sonia H. Davis (1883-1972), of Jewish and Ukrainian heritage, was a business woman, milliner, writer, editor, amateur journalist and publisher. She was married briefly (1924-1926) to Howard Phillips Lovecraft with whom she collaborated on several literary projects. In 1936, she married Nathaniel A. Davis (1866-1945) of Jewish and Portuguese heritage who was a writer, editor, educator, social activist, entrepreneur, world traveler, publisher, journalist and founder of Planetaryan, a humanitarian organization devoted to world peace. They were married in California and lived there for the remainder of their lives. This collection dates from 1879 to 1972 (bulk from 1930 to the early 1940s) and documents the lives and literary works of Sonia and Nathaniel. It is a good source of documentation for anyone interested in U.S. social, political and religious history, especially around the period of World War II. It is also a good source for those who are interested in American literature, especially in religious poetry and didactic literature. This collection does not include any primary source materials originating from H.P. Lovecraft, nor does it contain much by way of direct documentation about him except for a published memoir of him written by Mrs. Davis (Books at Brown, vol. XI, nos. 1-2), a copy of which is included in this collection. ...more information Downs (T. Nelson) Thomas Nelson Downs was a self-taught magician, specializing in coin tricks, who over the course of his career, performed in vaudeville acts all over the country, owned a vaudeville house, sold magic supplies, and wrote several books of magic instruction. This collection contains his correspondence with fellow magician Edward "Tex" McGuire, documentation of tricks (or "effects"), patents, advertisements, news clippings, photographs, and show programs. ...more information Gaylactic Network The Gaylactic Network records consist of administrative records, newsletters, correspondence and promotional material for the years 1986-2005 pertaining to and were compiled by Franklin Hummel. The collection covers the activities of both the Gaylactic Network and most of its local member organizations, as well as their annual conference Gaylaxicon. ...more information Lovecraft (Howard P.) Lovecraft, the eccentric Providence author of fantasy and horror tales for the pulp magazines of the 1920's, is now recognized as one of the seminal figures in the development of the science fiction genre. The collection includes extensive holdings of manuscripts, letters, editions of Lovecraft's works in all languages, periodicals, biographical and critical works, and many supportive collections of manuscript and printed materials of Lovecraft friends and associates. There are more than 1,000 books and magazines, in 20 languages, containing material by or about Lovecraft plus over 2,000 original letters and manuscripts of his essays, fiction and poetry. Many of the papers were deposited in the library a few months after Lovecraft's death in 1937; others have been added by gift and purchase over the years. Note: In the summer of 2013, students in Brown's Public Humanities program developed an augmented reality tour of Lovecraft's Providence for NecronomiCon Providence. Further information is available at: calloflovecraft.com ...more information Occult The collection deals primarily with alchemy, the interpretation of dreams, mysticism, black magic and the Kabbalah plus visionary testaments and manifestations of all kinds. Includes rare editions of early occult books and numerous chronicles of demonology, secret societies, theosophical orders, and ancient mystery relitions. Among the works on sorcery and supernatural events are several on American witchcraft and the Salem trials. The collection reflects Damon's fascination with alchemy, mysticism, symbolism and theosophy. ...more information Smith Magic The H. Adrian Smith Collection of Conjuring and Magicana, long considered one of the finest private libraries on conjuring and magic, includes 16th century titles on natural magic, alchemy, astrology, religious rites, and witchcraft. Later holdings include sections on conjuring, card tricks and games, magicians as performers, magic periodicals and other works intended for practicing magicians, posters, ephemera, and realia. The Collection is the gift and bequest of the collector, class of 1930, who as an undergraduate put himself through Brown by giving magic performances. ...more information Weird Tales Science fiction and fantasy periodical, notable at Brown University Library for the many works by H. P. Lovecraft it published. Fragile; may not be photocopied. ...more information Wellman (Manly Wade) The Manly Wade Wellman papers consist primarily of his fiction and nonfiction manuscripts (originals, carbon copies, and page proofs), personal and professional correspondence, and financial records. Also included are a small collection of manuscripts and correspondence belonging to his wife Frances Wellman. ...more information Image Source: The Great Wizard of the North, giving his great expose of the gambler's trick. Lauter La Coupe. Color lithograph. With detail of hands. H. Adrian Smith Collection of Conjuring and Magicana. John Hay Library. Return to Collections A to Z Index Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet