CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Use Policies & Services All services are contingent upon available staff resources. Turnaround times may be longer. We appreciate your patience and flexibility. Reproduction Services The University Archives provides reproductions of images and documents from our collections upon request as long as the staff determines that copying will not harm the original document(s) or violate current copyright law. Low-resolution digital scans (PDFs) are provided to our users to support research and scholarship. Our ability to deliver low-resolution digital scans is dependent on available staff resources. Priority processing will be given to requests in support of teaching and research by affiliates of Columbia University. Reproduction orders for archival material are limited to a maximum total of 250 pages. Reproductions of Master's Essays or Dissertations are limited to 650 pages. We reserve the right to limit or refuse multiple orders or single requests which exceed our maximum order limits, or to charge fees for accepted orders which we discover to exceed the above maximum order limits. We can accept scan requests for “known items” (e.g. Box 7, Folder 3) but may not be able to fulfill requests which would first require dedicated research. Users may hire a current Columbia student to conduct research on their behalf. Bound materials other than Oral Histories, MA Essays and Dissertations cannot usually be reproduced via photocopy or low-resolution PDF and may need to be reproduced via high-resolution digital imaging. Requests for a complete unit or large amount of material, such as an entire box of manuscript material, cannot be fulfilled by low-resolution scanning. Reproductions may be possible through high-resolution digital imaging, if condition and copyright law allows. RBML staff will contact you if your request cannot be fulfilled by low-resolution digital imaging (PDF). Please note that you must agree to the Terms of Service and sign any order forms. Failure to sign forms will delay order processing. Accepted orders which meet these terms of service can generally be processed within 6-8 weeks. Scan Request Forms If you wish to request scans, read and agree to the above Terms of Service and complete and return the form below to initiate a request. Library staff will review your request. We will contact you if your order cannot be fulfilled. If your order is accepted and can be processed, we will contact you to provide further instructions. PDF Order Form and Instructions High Resolution Digital Reproduction Order Form and Instructions Master's Essays & Dissertations Full text copies of dissertations published since 1997 (and some earlier dates) are available to Columbia UNI holders via ProQuest Dissertations & Theses Global database. Non-Columbia patrons may order copies via ProQuest Dissertation Express. Various formats & fees apply. Master's essays can be found by searching CLIO, our online library catalogue, with call numbers starting with COA. School of the Arts Writing Division MFA Essays require the permission of the author in order to be reproduced. Researchers should request permission via the School of the Arts Writing Division Office (Phone: (212) 854-4391; writing@columbia.edu). Once permission is received, the reproduction order can be processed. There is a $30.00 flat rate for PDF copy of master's essay or dissertation up to 650 pages in length, or $15.00 for previously scanned works. For information on how to find and order copies of Columbia University Master's essays and dissertations, please check out our Master's Essays & Dissertations research guide. Fees PDF or paper photocopies: $0.25 per page PDF copies of Master's Essays or Dissertations: $30.00 for up to 650 pages, or $15.00 for a copy of a previously scanned work. High resolution (600 dpi) TIFF or JPEG digital reproductions (UA) $20.00/$10.00 new scan (non-CU/CU Patron) No fee for copy of an existing scan Publication Policy General Policy In most cases, the University Archives (RBML) owns only the physical object and therefore does not assume any responsibility for literary property, copyright, or any other legal issues involved in the publication and reproduction of items in its collections. It is the responsibility of the user to secure permission from the appropriate copyright holder. Any copyright infringement which may occur through the use of our material is the responsibility of the patron. The University Archives does not charge for the physical use of its items, but we do request that you use the following credit line: "University Archives, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Columbia University Libraries". If there is a known photographer or artist associated with an image you wish to publish we recommend attribution as good scholarly practice. Citation Format If you are citing a specific document, please use the following citation format: Manuscript Citation: identification of specific item, date [if known], name of collection (Box #, Folder #), University Archives, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Columbia University Libraries. Book Citation: Title, Call #, University Archives, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Columbia University Libraries. Copyright For more additional information on copyright and fair use issues, please visit the web site of the Columbia University Libraries Copyright Advisory Office. For more information on publication policies for the Libraries in general, please see: Columbia University Libraries Publication and Digital Reproduction Policy and Procedures. You may also want to consult WATCH, a database containing the names and addresses of copyright holders or contact persons for authors and artists whose archives are housed, in whole or in part, in libraries and archives in North America and the United Kingdom. WATCH is a joint project of the Harry Ransom Humanities Research Center at The University of Texas at Austin and the University of Reading Library, Reading, England. NOTICE: WARNING CONCERNING COPYRIGHT RESTRICTIONS The copyright law of the United States (Title 17, United States Code) governs the making of photocopies or other reproductions of copyrighted material. Under certain conditions specified in the law, libraries and archives are authorized to furnish a photocopy or other reproduction. One of these specific conditions is that the photocopy or reproduction is not to be "used for any purpose other than private study, scholarship, or research." If a user makes a request for, or later uses, a photocopy or reproduction for purposes in excess of "fair use," that user may be liable for copyright infringement. This institution reserves the right to refuse to accept a copying order if, in its judgment, fulfillment of the order would involve violation of copyright law. Sidebar Columbia University Archives Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor Butler Library 535 West 114th St. M.C. 1127 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-3786 E-mail: uarchives@columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Create or Access Your Special Collections Research Account Columbia University Archives About the University Archives Research & Access Use Policies & Services Collection Overview Columbia History Resources University Archives Research Guides Donating Materials Managing University Records Rare Book & Manuscript Library RBML News CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.