Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Service Teach with Houghton Library Collaborate with us to design engaging learning experiences for your students and incorporate primary source materials. Houghton Library staff are happy to host class visits, provide student consultations, or help you develop out-of-class learning experiences for your students. Whether you are looking to bring your students to Houghton Library for a single visit, develop a semester-long project with us, or anything in between, we’re here to support your students’ learning. Request Class Support The first step to integrating Houghton Library into your course is submitting a request. If you have questions about what kinds of support we can offer, you can also get in touch with us for more information. Staff and space are in high demand throughout the semester, so please make your requests early to ensure availability, especially for multi-section classes. We may not be able to arrange class visits with less than 4 weeks’ notice. Classes from outside Harvard are welcome, but please be aware of the Library's visitor access policies. Request a Class You'll be asked for the following information when you submit a class request: goals for your students' work with our collections course title and number instructor contact information number of students in the class possible dates and times for your class visit, in order of preference Selecting Materials for Your Class Once your request has been confirmed, we'll work with you to find the materials and activities that will best support your course. To find material for your class, look in HOLLIS, the main Harvard Library catalog, and HOLLIS Archival Discovery, a database of finding aids for archival collections. You can also ask us to help you identify relevant material. To make requests, you will need a HOLLIS Special Request account. All the teaching staff, both faculty and teaching fellows, should be registered for an account so we can associate their names with the class. Once that association has been made, any teaching staff can select material for the class directly from request links in HOLLIS or HOLLIS for Archival Discovery. Tool HOLLIS HOLLIS is Harvard Library's catalog. Search HOLLIS for books, articles, media and more. Tool HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Catalog for exploring collection guides, finding aids and inventories to locate unique materials in Harvard's special collections and archives. Tool HOLLIS Special Request Request materials for use onsite in library reading rooms or request copies of library materials. Things to Keep In Mind When Selecting Materials We recommend no more than 12 items per visit. Fewer items can allow students to engage more closely with the materials than an overwhelming display. Large classes or certain activities may require more items—talk with the librarian or archivist working with you on your class if needed. We ask that the materials used for a course be requested no later than 2 weeks before the first visit—this gives us time to prepare materials and, when necessary, select substitutes for items that are too fragile or otherwise unavailable. Preparing Your Students Make sure your students know where to meet for your class. We typically meet classes in the Houghton lobby before going to our classrooms. Students are welcome to bring in cell phones and laptops. We provide pencil and paper for taking notes. If you expect your students to need other material in our classrooms (like notebooks or course readings), talk to us in advance. To protect our collections from accidental damage, students will be asked to put most of their personal belongings (including all bags, laptop cases, and jackets) in lockers. Food and drink are also not allowed in our classrooms. Due to the nature of our materials, special collections libraries typically have different security measures than other libraries students may have worked in. Our classrooms have cameras and the lobby guards will ask to inspect all materials brought in and out of Houghton. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.