Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Locations & Hours Cabot Science Library Spaces Using the Library Collections History Today: 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters See All Hours Highlights A 24-hour space for student collaboration and study, with studios for media production and support for science and engineering research and education. Video recording studio Borrow gear and tech Consults on science projects Collaborative and quiet study Open to all Harvard ID holders. Full access policy Follow Cabot Science Library You can find us on Facebook and Twitter Contact Science Center 1 Oxford Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions email: cablib@fas.harvard.edu Phone number 617-495-5355 View Staff Directory Connect with Cabot Less contact information More contact information Spaces Cabot has a variety of innovative spaces that can be reserved by Harvard faculty, staff and students — from chat booths and group study spaces to media studios. The library also has open spaces filled with various seating options for taking a break or getting your work done. Group Study Rooms Cabot has several spaces designed for group study. Reserve one now. Browse Group Study Rooms Media Studios Cabot's Media Studios are designed to provide high-quality audio and video recordings with only minimal training. More About Cabot's Media Studios Video Conferencing Room Cabot's video conferencing room features two large screens and a video camera, which support live interaction with remote locations. More about this space Instruction Room With long tables and movable chairs, this classroom-style room converts easily into is perfect for large group meetings and presentations. More about this space AR/VR Studio Explore different worlds and universes with the HTC Vive Headset. Book Your Visit Browse All Cabot Spaces Filter by noise level, comfy furniture and more. Find a Space Booking Space for an Event The Cabot Science Library has many flexible spaces great for events of all types — including the Discovery Bar, Puzzle Tables, video conference room, instruction room, and open spaces on the main and lower levels. The entrance and main level of the Cabot Science Library. If you're interested in booking an event at Cabot, fill out this form and we will get back to you within approximately two business days. Event Request Form Things to keep in mind Library approval is needed for reservation of event spaces. Academic events are given priority. Food is allowed in most areas of Cabot. Any catering or setup arrangements are the responsibility of the event organizer, in consultation with the Cabot Library staff assistant. Events can only be held during normal library open hours. Please review the library hours, particularly during holidays, university breaks, and summer to ensure the library is open when you need it. Coordination with the Science Center, where Cabot Science Library is located, will be required for all large events, with special attention for events that may affect the cafe and courtyard. Large events may incur a clean up fee. Show LessShow More Using the Library How To... How To Get Remote Support for Research & Publishing Working away from your lab or campus office? Harvard Library can help. How To Teach with Harvard Library Get support to help your students navigate the library and find the materials they need. How To Borrow, Renew and Return Library Materials Connect with the library materials you need to get your work done. Collections Collection Gardner Collection of Photos of the New England Landscape Collection Gardner Collection of Photos of the New England Landscape These public domain photos capture the geography, geology, mining & landscapes of the New England states during the late 1880s into the early 1900s. Collection Chemistry and Chemical Biology Library Collections Collection Chemistry and Chemical Biology Library Collections These collections were originally part of the Chemistry and Chemical Biology Library, which were merged into the Cabot Science Library. Collection Physics Research Collection Collection Physics Research Collection This is the collection of the Physics Research Library which merged with the Cabot Science Library. Collection Geological Map Collection Collection Geological Map Collection Cabot Science Library's geological map collection is among the largest in the world. Collection Gordon McKay and Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory Collections Collection Gordon McKay and Blue Hill Meteorological Observatory Collections These collections were originally part of the Gordon McKay and Blue Hill libraries, which were merged into the Cabot Science Library. Services & Tools Service Ask a Librarian Get immediate help during our live chat hours, or submit a question. Service Research Consultations Get personalized guidance from one of our library specialists online or in-person—no question is too small. Service Tech Loan Access to laptops, chargers, 360 degree cameras, VR equipment and more for members of the Harvard community. Tool Overleaf Speed up the process of writing, editing and producing research papers, and collaborating with others. Tool Zotero An easy-to-use citation tool to help you collect, organize, cite and share research. See All Services & Tools History The Godfrey Lowell Cabot Science Library opened its doors in 1973. Named for for Godfrey Lowell Cabot (1861–1962), Class of 1882 — an industrial chemist, manufacturer of carbon black, aviation pioneer, and benefactor of the sciences — the library was conceived as a part of Harvard's Science Center, which also opened in 1973. Under the stewardship of Dr. Alan E. Erickson, who served as librarian from the library's inception until his retirement at the end of 1991, Cabot rapidly became one of the busiest libraries on campus. As library collections in the physical science and engineering become increasingly electronic, and the needs of student study space have changed over the years, a number of departmental libraries have closed as service points and their collections have been integrated into the Cabot Science Library. That includes the Kummel Library for the Geological Sciences in 2005, the McKay Blue Hill Engineering Library in 2016, the Physics Library in 2017, and the Chemistry and Chemical Biology Library in 2018. Cabot underwent a significant renovation in 2016-2017, along with the Science Center's Cafe and Courtyard. Show LessShow More Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.