Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Collections William King Richardson Collection This Houghton Library collection contains illuminated manuscripts, incunabula, illustrated books, and fine bindings collected by prominent Boston lawyer and bibliophile William King Richardson. "The Coronation of Hannibal”, illuminated by the Master of the Harvard Hannibal, translated by Pierre Bersuire. Paris circa 1413-1415. View Details. Houghton Library Overview and History Prominent Boston lawyer and bibliophile William King Richardson assembled a remarkable collection of rare books and manuscripts over the 40 years leading up to his 1951 death. The nearly 1,700 volumes Richardson gave to Harvard are housed together in a single room of the Houghton Library. The space, reserved for this purpose since the library's opening in 1942, reflects Richardson's refined taste. Richardson himself provided the room's bookcases and paneling, and it's now furnished with chairs and tables from his own library. Richardson studied classics and history at Harvard as an undergraduate (graduating summa cum laude in 1880). He maintained a variety of scholarly interests throughout his life, and his library is similarly wide-ranging. Its particular strengths include its illuminated manuscripts, incunabula, illustrated books, and fine bindings, but not all its treasures fall into one of these categories. Manuscripts The 56 manuscripts in the collection date from the 12th to the 17th century. Notable among these are the nine Books of Hours, which feature delicate foliated borders and magnificent miniature depictions of medieval life. Other important manuscript works include a 12th century copy of Augustine’s works, a Wycliffe New Testament, and a 15th century chronicle of British history whose margins are ornamented with frolicking grotesques. Incunabula The collection also includes 109 incunabula, of which 53 were printed before 1480. Important pre-1480 incunabula include a fragment of the Gutenberg Bible, a first-edition copy of the Imitatio Christi, and an illuminated volume of Valerius Maximus’ historical writing. Among the post-1480 incunabula, the illuminated and vellum-printed Decades rerum Venetarum (1487) is one of the most splendid. Rather more humble but still important are the 18 incunabula in the collection produced by the Aldine Press. This famous Venetian press, which specialized in classical works, was responsible for two critical innovations in the world of publishing. It introduced italic type, and was the first to issue volumes in the portable and relatively inexpensive octavo size. The William King Richardson Library also includes over 115 post-1500 Aldine volumes, many of which once belonged to eminent Renaissance lawyers, authors, and statesmen. Bindings Visitors to the William King Richardson Library will undoubtedly be struck by the beauty of the bindings on display. Master binders such as Florimond Badier, Antoine Padeloup, and Roger Payne are well represented. Alongside their elaborately stamped and inlayed leather bindings, one may also find unusual bindings in a number of materials: copper, heavily-worked silver, and even tortoise-shell. The ornamentation of some volumes extends even to the edges of their pages, which are gilded, stamped, or even treated as a small canvas for painted portraits or landscapes. For a more detailed description of the collection and its history, see William H. Jackson’s “The William King Richardson Library." Accessing These Materials Browse printed books in the Richardson Collection via HOLLIS. Contact Houghton Library Public Services email: Email Phone number 617-495-2440 Related Collections Digital Collection Medieval & Renaissance Manuscripts Digital Collection Medieval & Renaissance Manuscripts Houghton Library's collection of medieval and Renaissance manuscripts represents a significant resource for the study of the literature, art, history, music, philosophy, and theology of the Middle Ages and the Renaissance in Western Europe. Collection Papyri at Houghton Library Collection Papyri at Houghton Library Works by Homer, Plato, Thucydides, Demosthenes, Menander, and the Gospels, as well as documentary texts for the study of the political, administrative and social history of the Ptolemaic and Roman Egypt. Collection Early Science Collections Collection Early Science Collections Houghton Library’s extensive holdings in the early history of science represent over 2,000 years of scientific thought. Collection Count Paul Riant Collection Collection Count Paul Riant Collection The Riant collection at Houghton Library features texts that range from collections of diplomatic letters, to chivalric novels, hagiographical monographs and include many first-hand accounts of European travelers in the Near East. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.