Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search MUSEUM OF COMPARATIVE ZOOLOGY | HARVARD.EDU HOME Services Circulation Reference Interlibrary Loans Special Collections and Archives Other Services Scholarly Resources Digital Resources E-journals MCZ Reading List New Books New Books Gallery Latest Journals Digital Collections Online Special Collections Burkhardt Collection Burkhardt Scientific Drawings Thayer Expedition Papers Thomas Barbour Travel Images Alexander Agassiz's Expedition and other images Contributions to the BHL Flickr Gallery William Brewster Papers About the Library Directions to the Library Library Mission Collaborations Library Staff History of the Library The Library Turns 150! Ernst Mayr Biography MCB Library Exchange Program EML Blog HOME / SERVICES / Reference Reference For reference and research assistance, please contact library staff via email or by phone at 617-495-2475 or 617-496-1059. Research Assistance There are many ways to tap the research potential of the Ernst Mayr Library. Library orientation sessions and research consultations are available upon request. Orientation sessions typically include a tour and explanation of the major research tools available in the Ernst Mayr Library. To schedule a group or individual appointment, please call 617-495-2475 or email the reference staff. Staff are also available for research instruction in labs, offices, or other locations outside of the library. "Top Ten Things Graduate Students Should Know About Using the Libraries at Harvard" is a great research starting point for all Harvard researchers. Services Circulation Reference Interlibrary Loans Special Collections and Archives Photocopiers and Equipment Search Reference Assistance E-mail your request for reference assistance. Find Information MCZ #BlackLivesMatter BIOSIS, WOS, Zoo Record HOLLIS+ Other Scholarly Resources The Ernst Mayr Library: 26 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138. (617) 495-2475 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement