My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) About the Libraries Job & Internship Opportunities Digital Internships Program Digital Internships Program The Digital Internships Program is open to graduate students wishing to collaborate with librarians working in digital scholarship on campus. Students are recruited through a competitive process and successful applicants will receive a stipend and hands-on experience working in one of the opportunities listed below. Available Internships The 2021–2022 Digital Internship Program is closed to new applicants. The Libraries will be recruiting new interns again in Fall 2022. Objectives Program Objectives To foster a community of scholars interested in emerging forms and methods of research and scholarship. To expose the next generation of faculty and researchers to rich and innovative digital tools, methods and environments that will be useful in their future work and will improve their competitiveness in the academic marketplace. To create an opportunity for graduate students to develop useful skills and practices to be shared with library staff and other users, and through this interaction drive the creation of innovative research- and teaching-support models within the library. To present alternative career paths for those holding advanced degrees, specifically as professional-level collaborators in digital scholarship based within and outside of academic departments. To engage students with the everyday professional practices of librarians in digital scholarship and provide experience with the operations of academic libraries, especially as they contribute to the educational goals of universities and impact teaching, learning, and research. To harness student expertise in technology and applied science to help the broader Columbia community to build skills around topics such as Python, R, publishing and podcasting technologies, and music technologies. Mentoring Each participant will be assigned to a mentor who will train the student and prepare a work plan for the project. The Libraries is committed to fostering a work environment where interns are respected and feel free to ask questions and make suggestions. Eligibility & Requirements The program is open to all Columbia University graduate students. Participants must be enrolled as a student for the full academic year, from September through May. Participants are expected to make regular contributions to the Digital Internship blog. Compensation Interns will be paid $20.00 an hour and will work approximately twelve hours a week (or the semester equivalent thereof) during the academic year. Apply Please check back in Fall 2022 for the next call for applicants. Please prepare a brief CV (two pages maximum) to be available upon request from Libraries staff. Contact Please contact digital-internships@library.columbia.edu with questions Current and Past Position Descriptions Digital Learning and 3D Printing Intern This intern supports the digital learning and 3D printing programs. The intern will be trained on the Domains of One’s Own platform and will be expected to troubleshoot and support projects built on Wordpress, Omeka and Scalar. Additionally, in collaboration with the Digital Learning Specialist, the intern will staff drop in hours for student research project support at least twice a semester. The intern will also support the 3D printing program by executing 3D prints and coordinating print pickups, maintaining the 3D printers as needed, and blogging recent 3D prints on the CUL 3D print blog. Experience with Wordpress and 3D printing tools such as Tinkercad and FlashPrint are preferred but not required. The intern will be expected to adapt to needs as they arise and should have a dedicated interest in exploring digital research tools. Digital Music Intern The intern works to broaden engagement with tools for digital music, musicology, music notation, and audio, in partnership with the Music Librarian and aligned with the Digital Music Lab. This may include designing and teaching/co-teaching workshops and tutorials, participating in virtual lab hours, and related individual project work. Typical scheduling is 8-10 hours/week. Digital Publishing Intern This intern works primarily on the journals program. The intern works both on maintaining and upgrading our technical infrastructure as well as educating and liaising with our editorial partners. The intern is trained to be fluent in our journal publishing software, OJS, as well as the other tools we and our partners use in the production of their journals and provides technical support as well as ongoing oversight of our publishing apparatus. To aid in the ongoing growth and impact of our program, the intern is also responsible for ensuring our journals are appropriately registered, catalogued, and indexed and that internal processes such as archiving, DOI minting, and analytics are completed. Lastly, the intern provides guidance to journal publishing partners, in collaboration with the Digital Publishing Librarian, on editorial roles and workflows, copyright and permissions, web accessibility and other aspects of publishing practice. Repository Metadata Intern The intern will support the work of Academic Commons, which provides global access to research and scholarship produced at Columbia University and its affiliate institutions. Duties include cataloging new digital materials for the repository, performing maintenance on existing records to add descriptive content and improve interoperability of records with external indexes, and assisting with UI/UX testing projects planned for the repository. Attention to detail is essential. Some experience with Open Refine and Python (Pandas) is desirable but not required; training will be provided, but some general knowledge of command line scripting is helpful. The intern in this position will have the opportunity to learn about metadata standards and best practices for preserving and making accessible digital scholarly objects as well as programmatic solutions for data wrangling, data cleansing and data interoperability. Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 All Libraries Staff Subject Specialists News Events & Exhibitions Maps & Directions Libraries Awards Strategic Directions Policies Workshops Drop-in Help Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian