Off-Campus Access | Library A–Z | Hours & Locations Search: Search BruKnow Library Website WorldCat Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Orwig Music Library – Services Other Orwig Links: » Back to the main page » Library Hours » Collections » Facilities & Staff » Services » Policies on Access & Use » Electronic Resources » Other Music Collections » Internet Music Resources » Finding Scores & Recordings » Music Department at Brown Reference Orwig has an extensive collection of music reference books as well as four computers with access to thousands of online reference resources. Reference assistance is available Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m to 7:00 p.m and Sunday, 4:15 p.m. to 10:00 p.m. At other times, ask for help at the circulation desk. Or, please email the staff directly. Circulation The Orwig Music Library provides complete circulation services for its collections. Loan and fine policies conform to those of the University Library, except as noted. Materials to be borrowed should be brought to the circulation desk. The attendant will also assist in locating material, and upon request, will recall and/or place a hold on an item which is in circulation. Patrons may also complete a search request for items that cannot be located. Materials borrowed from the Music Library may be returned to the Music Library or to the Rockefeller or Sciences Libraries. Music books and scores shelved in the open stacks circulate outside the Library. Reference materials and periodicals do not circulate outside the Library. Sound recordings and videos should be requested at the circulation desk. Users may borrow sound recordings upon presentation of a valid Brown I.D. Non-Brown users may use sound recordings and videos in the Library during reference hours after consultation with a full-time staff member. Non-Brown users may not check out materials for use outside the Library. To ensure compliance with United States copyright regulations, the copying, including digitizing, of sound recordings is not permitted in the Music Library; exceptions for the purpose of music criticism must receive the approval of the Performing Arts Librarian. Course Reserves Required readings, scores, and listening assignments for course reserves are available at the circulation desk and online through OCRA and Brown EARS. Scores and recordings on course reserves are to be used in the Library, but course reserves books and articles circulate outside the Library, usually for three hours. Books and articles on three-hour loans may be taken out overnight after 6:30 p.m., and should be returned by 10:30 a.m the following day. Because course reserve materials are in demand, fines for late returns are strictly enforced. The course reserve fine rate is $0.50 an hour for each item. Course reserve fines accrue continually, 24 hours a day, regardless of Library hours. Direct Borrowing & Interlibrary Loan Books, periodical articles, or other materials not owned by Brown University can usually be borrowed directly by using easyBorrow, which provides a single interface to our direct borrowing services: Borrow Direct and interlibrary loan. Orwig Music Library staff will be glad to verify citations for music materials before you submit your request. For an overview of these services, see » How to borrow books not available at Brown. Computer Cluster The Orwig Music Library has a small computer cluster which includes four machines for use by students, faculty, and staff with a Brown login, one guest machine, and a black-and-white printer. The Brown-only machines include the music notation software Sibelius. The computers and printer are managed by Brown CIS. Scanner/Copier There is a scanner-copier in the Orwig reference room. It has the capacity for black-and-white photocopying and color scanning (scans are sent via email). Playback Equipment for Legacy Media There is playback equipment for 33 ⅓ RPM discs, cassette tapes, VHS tapes, DVDs (all regions), and CDs located in various parts of the Library. Please ask at the circulation desk. If you need to play back a 78 or 45 RPM disc, please contact the Performing Arts Librarian for assistance. Study Carrels Brown students writing a dissertation or thesis, and Brown faculty members, may apply for the use of a study carrel in the Orwig Music Library. Carrels are located in the Upper Reading Room and the Lower Reading Room. To apply, please visit the Orwig circulation desk. Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet