My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) Using the Libraries Access to Other Libraries Access to Other Libraries by Columbia University Students, Faculty & Staff Borrow Direct Plus On-Site Borrowing Program Through the Borrow Direct Plus on-site borrowing program, current Columbia University and Union Theological Seminary students, faculty, and staff have on-site library borrowing privileges at Brown, Cornell, Dartmouth, Duke, Harvard, Johns Hopkins, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Princeton, Stanford, University of Chicago, University of Pennsylvania, and Yale. View the policies of the institution(s) before planning a visit. Items, collections, and participating libraries available vary by institution. Material circulates according to the lending library’s policies and loan periods. Borrowed items may be returned at either the lending library or one of the Columbia University Libraries. When first visiting one of these libraries, eligible individuals will be asked to show their current Columbia University ID card and log into the Borrow Direct service to verify their status and confirm their library account is in good standing. Once verified, a borrowing card will be issued. For the most part, these same materials already are available for borrowing and delivery to current Columbia faculty, students, and staff through Borrow Direct, a rapid book request and delivery system used by all of the participating institutions. The Borrow Direct Plus agreement expands the system to include this in-person component. SHARES Columbia University is a member of SHARES, and Columbia students, faculty, and staff have on-site access privileges at member libraries outside the New York City area. These privileges typically include reading privileges and access to collections. Use of electronic and computing resources may be restricted. Borrowing privileges are not provided. In order to facilitate access to other libraries, Columbia students, faculty and staff must present a valid Columbia ID card with a semester sticker upon request. An additional government issued photo ID card may also be required. Please consult the websites of member institutions in advance. New York University/Columbia University Cooperative Agreement Columbia University also has a special agreement with New York University. Students, faculty and staff have access to the NYU libraries described here. MaRLI: Manhattan Research Libraries Initiative The New York Public Library and the libraries of Columbia University and New York University offer expanded access and use of collections to better serve their users. The collaboration, dubbed the Manhattan Research Library Initiative (MaRLI), enables NYU and Columbia doctoral students, full-time faculty and librarians, and approved New York Public Library cardholders with a demonstrable research need not met by currently available resources, to borrow materials from all three institutions. For more information and to register for MaRLI privileges, please visit the MaRLI website. 2CUL Reciprocal Borrowing (Columbia University/Cornell University) As part of the 2CUL initiative, Columbia students, faculty, and staff may register to borrow books at Cornell University. Information about this initiative, and a link to the registration form may be found here. Library Information Office 201 Butler Phone: 212-854-7309 Email: lio@columbia.edu Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Access Privileges Access to Other Libraries Accessibility Alumni Borrow, Request, Renew Course Reserves Print, Scan, Digitize Study Spaces Visitors Workshops Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian