Skip to search options Skip to main content Global dropdown menu Research Support Subject Librarians Reach out to a librarian for specialized help in a discipline. Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more. Research Guides Use the best resources we have, picked by librarians. Databases There's a wealth of information to be found through our database subscriptions. Collections Print and digital collections serve as extensions of our teaching and research facilities. Research Services We're available throughout all stages of your research. Quick Links Library Search JSTOR PubMed Make an Appointment Newspapers Journals Collections Program Borrow & Renew Library Catalog Find books, audio and video, music scores, maps and more in the catalog. Borrowing & Requesting Learn how to borrow materials at Dartmouth and from other libraries via BorrowDirect or DartDoc. Tech Loans We've got everything from chargers to a professional portable recording studio. Alumni Access and Resources How to access resources, on and off-campus. Media Discover an extensive range of movies, television series, documentaries, educational programs, audio and more. Off-Campus Access Students, staff, and faculty can access most of our electronic resources off-campus. Quick Links BorrowDirect DartDoc Course Reserves for Faculty Course Reserves for Students Libraries & Spaces Study and Meeting Spaces Book a meeting room for a group or sign up to use a private study room. Hours and Locations Our hours, holiday closings, street addresses and contact information. Baker-Berry Library Our main library houses the humanities, mathematics, music, physical sciences and social sciences collections Biomedical Libraries The Dana and Matthews-Fuller libraries support the disciplines of health and life sciences. Evans Map Room Houses thousands of sheet maps, mapping software, atlases, globes & more. Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Offers support for the Tuck School of Business & Thayer School of Engineering. Jones Media Center Provides facilities & collections for researching, viewing & producing media. Rauner Special Collections Library Includes rare books, manuscripts & more. Sherman Art Library Supports the departments of Art History, Studio Art, as well as the Hood Museum of Art. About Us Hours and Locations Events Latest News Privacy Policy Dean’s Council for Equity and Inclusion Strategic Objectives Visiting & Exhibits Help Library Search Learn about signing into your account, search options and tips, getting to resources and working with citations. Research Support We're committed to partnering with you to enhance and showcase your research. Publishing Support We provide consultation focusing on opportunities in digital publishing and scholarship. Subject Librarians We have a subject librarian for your major who wants to help! Teaching Support We have librarians who specializes in your subject area and can support your students’ learning. Workshops & Events We offer a variety of events to assist you in developing skills ranging from research to programming. Quick Links Contact Us FAQs Off-Campus Access Send Us Feedback Staff Directory Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Toggle navigation Search Global dropdown menu Research Support Borrow & Renew Libraries & Spaces Help Login Students, Faculty & Staff DHMC & Guests Alumni BorrowDirect DartDoc Search Books Articles Audio/Video Website Limit to available online Peer reviewed articles and journals only Search Other Resources Course Reserves Advanced Search Databases Journals Research Guides Music Scores Maps and Atlases BorrowDirect & DartDoc all fieldsauthor/contributortitle Options to search all fields, author, or title Limit to available online Search Other Resources WorldCat BorrowDirect HathiTrust all fieldsauthor/contributortitle Options to search all fields, author, or title Limit to available online Peer reviewed articles and journals only Search Other Resources Academic Search ProQuest Central Web of Science JSTOR Google Scholar all fieldsauthor/contributortitle Options to search all fields, author, or title Limit to available online Search Other Resources Media at Jones Music Kanopy Alexander Street Naxos Music Search Other Resources Digital Collections BorrowDirect HathiTrust About this image Dartmouth Library Student Research Support Library staff are here to help you access the resources you need to be successful with your courses. Library Services Update Read the latest information regarding changes to Library access, use and services. Faculty Teaching Support Library staff are here to help you successfully teach your courses. Today's Library Hours Baker-Berry 1902 Room 24 Hours Baker 24 Hours Berry 24 Hours Circulation & Course Reserves 8am - 12am Novack Café Study Area 24 Hours Orozco Room 8am - 12am Reiss Hall 24 Hours Research Support Online 9am - 5pm Book Arts Workshop Open Studio Hours 3pm - 5pm. 5pm - 9pm Biomedical Libraries Dana: Dartmouth College Faculty, Staff, and Geisel Graduate Students 24 Hours Dana: Information Desk/General Public 8:30am - 5pm Matthews-Fuller: DHMC ID Access 24 Hours Matthews-Fuller: Information Desk/General Public 8:30am - 5pm Evans Map Room 9am - 5pm Feldberg Business & Engineering Library 8am - 12am Jones Media Center 8am - 2am Jones Media Center Service Desk 10am - 4pm Rauner Special Collections Library 9am - 5:45pm Sherman Art Library 24 Hours Sherman Art Special Collection By Appointment Novack Café See Website Café@Baker See Website See All Hours See all hours Popular Services Book aStudy Room CourseReserves Research Librarians Borrowing & Requesting Copyright & Sharing Off-Campus Access Workshops, classes & events Jun22 Intellectual Property Drop-In 2:00pm - 3:00pm Jul27 Intellectual Property Drop-In 2:00pm - 3:00pm Aug24 Intellectual Property Drop-In 2:00pm - 3:00pm Sep28 Intellectual Property Drop-In 2:00pm - 3:00pm Oct26 Intellectual Property Drop-In 2:00pm - 3:00pm See all events Exhibits Green Time - 1776-1966 Inaugural exhibit in the Science Exhibits case on Berry Level 4 Finding Community The Life of Edward Mitchell 1828 Blacks @ Dartmouth from 1828 to 1960 File Under Easy Listening Library staff members reveal their musical taste Dartmouth Class of 2021 Student Library Service Bookplate Program 2021 Selections A Boston Brahmin Abroad George Ticknor, Hispanism, & Dartmouth Excellence at Dartmouth Black Legacy Month 2021 A History of Anatomical Donation at Dartmouth Medical School Gobbledygook & Baloney! The 1984 Democratic Presidential Debate at Dartmouth Features Repatriating the Papers of Samson Occom The papers and materials of Samson Occom, stewarded by the Dartmouth Library for many years, were repatriated to the Mohegan Tribe on April 27, 2022. The papers are viewable as part of the Occom Circle project, part of our digital collections. Hands That Speak Exhibit and book talk on May 27 featuring stories of migrant dairy farm workers in the Upper Valley. Feldberg Library Reopens On March 21, 2022, Feldberg Library reopened! The Irving Institute's construction is complete, and we'd love to welcome you to our refreshed space. Chat with the business, engineering, and economics librarians, use the Bloomberg terminals, or just find a sunny place to study. Historical Accountability Student Research Program Funded student research opportunities to explore issues of diversity and inclusion at Dartmouth using primary sources from the College Archives. Dartmouth Library Baker-Berry Library Book Arts Workshop Evans Map Room Jones Media Center Biomedical Libraries Feldberg Business & Engineering Library Rauner Special Collections Library Records Management Sherman Art Library About Us Strategic Objectives Staff & Departments Subject Librarians Alumni Services Visiting & History Accessibility Library Catalog Careers Friends of the Library More About Us Contact Us 25 North Main Street Hanover, NH, USA 03755 Phone: 603-646-2567 Contact Us Give Us Feedback Connect with Us Facebook Instagram YouTube Footer copyright Dartmouth Copyright © 2020 Trustees of Dartmouth College Privacy