Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Collections Russian Theatrical Designs Stunning set and costume designs from the 20th century's most influential ballet company, the Ballets Russes Set design for "Le Cirque" by Alexandra Exter, 1927-28. View Details. Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library The Harvard Theatre Collection holds one of the world’s largest collections of stage designs by Russian artists. It comprises hundreds of set and costume designs, portraits, program covers, and other artwork for ballets, operas, plays, and early films, most dating from 1890 to 1930. At its core is a significant collection of original art commissioned by impresario Serge Diaghilev for the Ballets Russes. The Designers Between 1909 and 1929, Diaghilev’s company forged a new aesthetic that continues to influence the visual and performing arts. The collection includes works by most of the artists who collaborated on Diaghilev’s groundbreaking productions. It also covers the offshoot companies, which sprung up in the 1930s hoping to recapture the popularity of the Ballets Russes, and artists who emigrated to the West after the Russian Revolution, especially works by: Ballets Russes program by Pavel Tchelitchev, 1928. View Details. Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library Boris Anisfeld Léon Bakst Alexandre Benois Nicola Benois Boris Bilinsky Dmitri Bouchène Mstislav Doboujinsky Alexandre Golovin Natalia Goncharova Konstantine Korovine Mikhail Larionov Georges de Pogédaïeff Nicholas Roerich Serge Soudeikine Pavel Tchelitchev Several artists born in states once part of the Russian Empire—such as Alexandra Exter and Broadway designer Boris Aronson—are also included. Other designers, like Theodore Komisarjevsky and Eugène Berman, pursued careers primarily in other countries. While the majority of designs are by Russian-born artists, artists of other nationalities who either worked in Russia or contributed designs to the Ballets Russes are well represented. Among them are: Giorgio de Chirico, Jean Cocteau, André Derain, Robert Edmond Jones, Joan Miró, and Pablo Picasso. The Designs Costume design for "Carmen" by Georges de Pogédaïeff, 1930. View Details. Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library Stylistically, the collection mirrors the artistic movements prevalent in the theater during the early 20th century. There are nationalistic and folk-influenced designs by Natalia Goncharova, Mikhail Larionov, and Nicolai Remisoff; cubist and constructivist designs by Alexandra Exter; neo-romantic designs by Alexandre Benois and Eugène Berman; and orientalist designs by Léon Bakst. Examples run the gamut from the abstract impressionism of Dmitri Bouchène to the realism of Igor Ivanov. Even the music hall revue is illustrated by extravagant and fanciful designs by Erté and Alexandre Zinoviev. Related Collections Howard D. Rothschild assembled the library’s most extensive collection of Russian designs, which he bequeathed to the Harvard Theatre Collection in 1992. Other important collections were formed by George Chaffée, Doris Dickinson Dinsmore, and Pauline Billings Taylor. Other Resources Diaghilev’s Ballets Russes, 1909-1929: Twenty Years That Changed the World of Art, Harvard Theatre Collection online exhibition. Russian Theatrical Designs, Harvard Theatre Collection exhibition, 2004. The Art of Léon Bakst: For the Ballets Russes of Serge Diaghilev, Harvard Theatre Collection exhibition, 1999. Accessing These Materials All material is available for use in Houghton Library’s reading room. About 700 works have been digitized and are available in HOLLIS Images. Recent acquisitions can be found by searching HOLLIS but may not be digitized. Browse Digital Images Contact Houghton Library email: Email Phone number 617-495-2440 Related Collections Collection Harvard Theatre Collection Collection Harvard Theatre Collection Founded in 1901, the Harvard Theatre Collection stands as one of the oldest and largest performing arts collections in the world. Collection The Russian Revolution Collection The Russian Revolution Literature, reportage, correspondence, and images from Russia's revolutionary period 1905-1917. Collection Russian Literature Collection Russian Literature Explore centuries of Russia’s rich literary history through Houghton’s vast collections. How To Access Materials at Houghton Library Houghton is home to rare books and manuscripts, literary and performing arts archives, and more. Here's how to access these primary source materials. How To Use Harvard Library's Special Collections and Archives Open to all, these unique materials can take you to places you never expected. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.