Off-Campus Access | Library A–Z | Hours & Locations Search: Search BruKnow Library Website WorldCat Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Quick Links: Ask a Librarian BruKnow (Catalog) WorldCat / easyBorrow Databases A-Z Journals A-Z eBooks Course Reserves (OCRA) MoBUL for your phone Research: Getting Started Guides: by Subject / Course Videos & DVDs Instructional Images Collections / A-Z Citation Management Copyright & Fair Use Center for Digital Scholarship Library Services: Borrowing Online Forms Subject Experts Tools & Tutorials Google Scholar New Titles Visiting the Library About the Library Brown University Library Collections Literature (United States) Collections Select a different subject group Africana Alcohol and Addiction Studies American Culture and Society Art and Architecture Asian Studies Author Collections Book Arts Brown University Archives & History Business Children's Literature Disability Studies Early Printed Books Economics Education European Studies Fine and Decorative Arts Gender and Sexuality Studies Graphic Arts History (Non-United States) History (United States) History of Medicine History of Science, Mathematics, Technology Iberia, Latin America, and Latino Indigenous Studies Language & Literature, Non-Western LGBTQ Literature (Non-United States) Literature (United States) Magic and Occult Manuscript Collections Middle Eastern Studies Military History and Iconography Museum Objects Collections Performing Arts Political Science Printing and Publishing History Race and Ethnicity Religion Rhode Island/Local Interest Russia and Eastern Europe Science Fiction and Fantasy South Asia Women Return to Collections A to Z Index Aldrich Collection of American, British, and some European (primarily French) illustrated children's books, donated to Brown University in June 1990. The appraiser's catalog included with the collection lists: Chapbooks 1780-1840 (31 items); English 1840-1952 (213 items); Pre-1835 American (11 items); American gift and miniature (5 items); American primers and prayer books (6 items); American 1835-1954 (115 items); European 1850-1940 (35 items); Reference (6 items). The total, 423 items, reflects a slightly different way of counting sets of Kate Greenaway ephemera. The collection was donated to the Library by Aldrich's nephew, Mr. David Rockefeller. ...more information Allison (Thomas M.) Thomas M. Allison (U.S.N., Ret.) served aboard the Hornet when propaganda leaflets were dropped in the Tokyo area on 17 February 1945. This collection includes literary manuscripts, official and personal correspondence, and memorabilia relating to World War II navy convoy in 1941 and British P.O.W.'s in Thailand. Also includes: single-leaf leaflets produced by the U.S. Navy in an attempt to lower the morale of the Japanese during World War II which were printed aboard the carrier U.S.S. Hornet (CV-12), placed in aircraft bomber bays and then dropped over Tokyo. ...more information Barker (Elsa) The Elsa Barker papers provide a window into the early 20th century literary world on both sides of the Atlantic. Her poems, especially the one written for the Peary Expedition to the North Pole, were popular enough to be set to music. She was a founding member of the Poetry Society of America and the Progressive Stage Society. Her books by the Living Dead Man which she produced by automatic writing (the process or production of writing material that does not come from the conscious thoughts of the writer) were best sellers at the end of World War I. Her detective stories, which featured the debonair Dexter Drake, ran in popular magazines alongside articles by F. Scott Fitzgerald and Mary Roberts Rhinehart. Barker corresponded with Ted Shawn, one of the founders of the modern dance movement, had a play produced in Boston and New York, studied psychology and psychoanalysis briefly with Jung and was a member of the Rosicrucian Order of Alpha et Omega. In short she was part of the major intellectual and emotional movements of the 1920's and 1930's. ...more information Barker (Sarah Elizabeth Minchin) Sarah Elizabeth Minchin Barker (also known as Sally Barker) was an actress and director whose career was highlighted by the work with The Players at the Talma Theatre and the Barker Playhouse Theatre. She was active in dramatic events at Pembroke, where she taught theatre. Her husband, Henry Ames Barker, 1861-1929 (Brown class of 1893) was a guiding influence and a director of the Players. He was the son of Mayor Harry Barker of Providence and active himself in the civic and cultural affairs of the city. ...more information Barr (Morris Abner) Morris Abner Barr was an author, lyricist, and poet whose poems tended towards nature, love, God, friendship, and Barr's own life. A craftsman, Barr wrote about his experience creating stools, gavels, and letter openers from the wood of the Sentry Tree in "Immortalizing the Sentry Tree of George Washington." The collection contains his writings, a scrapbook related to the George Washington Sentry Tree, and correspondence with friends and mentors. ...more information Bianchi (Martha Dickinson) Consists of the papers of the family of Emily Dickinson, along with the 3,000 volume family library from "The Evergreens," the Dickinson home in Amherst Massachusetts. In addition to the personal papers of Martha Bianchi (including family and editorial correspondence, diaries, notes, worksheets, typescript poems, stories, plays, photographs, articles, books, and clippings) the collection includes the personal papers of Alfred Leete Hampson and his wife, Mary Landis Hampson, and includes much secondary material relating to Emily Dickinson. Supplemented by gifts from Barton St. Armand and George Monteiro, of additional items from the same source. ...more information Blake (Howard Milton) The Howard Milton Blake papers are comprised of multiple versions of verse and prose written by Blake. The collection was edited before it came to Brown University by Robert Kent and was published under the title "The Island of Self: Poems of Howard Blake" (Boston 1973). The book reproduces almost all of the verse in the collection, but none of the prose; there is, however, a reprint of Blake's preface to his only published book of verse "Prolegomena To Any Future Poetry" (Boston 1936). ...more information Botta (Anne Charlotte Lynch) Anne Charlotte Lynch Botta (1815-1891) was a teacher and poet of Providence, Rhode Island and New York City. The collection of ca. 200 items covers the years 1835-1894 and contains correspondence concerning literary and personal affairs, three manuscripts of her poems, two engraved portraits extracted from a book, and miscellaneous notes. ...more information Brennan (Joseph Payne) The Brennan papers consist of manuscripts of short stories and poems, fan mail, correspondence with fellow writers both poets and horror story writers, some World War II orders and correspondence and memorabilia some of which is housed in scrapbooks, photographs, submissions to the self published magazines Macabre and Essence as well as personal legal, medical, and financial papers. Books in the collection are cataloged individually in Josiah under "Joseph Payne Brennan Collection". ...more information Broadsides The Broadsides Collection houses broadsides (single-sheet imprints), posters, bookplates, prints, valentines, greeting cards, postcards, and photographs. From a nucleus of 8,000 pieces in 1928, holdings have increased to over 40,000 items. Largely ephemeral by nature, broadsides are collected by only a few major libraries and historical societies in the United States. Originally issued primarily by governmental, religious, and political bodies, broadsides were later used for advertisements, programs, notices, ballad verses, elegies, and comments on contemporary events. More recently, they have become popular as exemplars of fine printing. Includes holdings of the Harris, Rider, Lincoln, Koopman, Military and general library collections. Notable areas within Harris include slip ballads and carriers' addresses. ...more information Brownell (Henry Howard) The Henry Howard Brownell papers, dating from 1827-1871, include short prose articles and stories in manuscript, poetry manuscripts, verse translations from Homer's Aeneid and a scrapbook of Brownell's poems. Brownell was a poet and lawyer from Connecticut. ...more information Burning Deck Burning Deck is the small press operated by Keith and Rosmarie Waldrop. Since 1961 it has published limited editions of the works of contemporary poets and fiction writers. The archive of Burning Deck consists of financial records, correspondence with contributors, galleys, typescripts, and art work representing forty years of literary publication. The Library also holds a complete collection of Burning Deck imprints, mostly in the Harris Collection. ...more information Carriers Addresses Carriers' addresses were published by newspapers, usually on January 1, and distributed in the United States for more than two centuries. The custom originated in England and was introduced here during colonial times. The newsboys delivered these greetings in verse each New Year's Day and the customers understood that a tip was expected. The poems, often anonymous, describe the events of the past year, locally, regionally, and nationally, and end with a request for a gratuity for the faithful carrier. Often the poem referred to the carrier's diligence and hardships during winter weather. Illustrated with wood-engravings and decorative borders, carriers' addresses are distinctive examples of popular publishing in nineteenth century America. Brown University Library holds one of the largest collections of these charming works, in the Broadsides Collection and the Harris Collection of American Poetry and Plays. ...more information Chapman (Abraham) Professor of English at University of Wisconsin, Abraham Chapman (1915-1976) published several books on ethnic and minority literature in the United States. This collection includes his research materials from his work on ethnic literature in the United States. ...more information Cherkofsky (Naomi) Naomi Cherkofsky was an award-winning poet and author of countless published poems and seven books of poetry. This collection includes her work, both published and unpublished, along with a number of poetry-society publications and general poetry magazines. It also includes correspondence with editors, clippings of news stories by and about Cherkofsky, and material about a project to bring poetry into nursing homes. ...more information Church (Dave) The Dave Church papers contain correspondence, notebooks, manuscripts, broadsides, poetry journals, artwork, audio- and videocassettes, representing all aspects of Church's poetry: creation, editing, submission, publication and performance. Also included is a collection of poetry books by other authors, inscribed to Church. Most of the material is from the years 1996-2008 (although some items date from as early as 1957) ...more information Ciardi (John) The collection is made up of eleven typed letters signed and one autographed letter signed to Professor William J. Griffin at George Peabody College, Nashville, Tennessee. Most letters are about his writing, with one form letter to Rodger P. Kingston. ...more information Civil War Manuscripts Comprises more than 26 collections (more than 2,000 letters in all) covering the period from 1858 through 1879. Includes correspondence, diaries, photographs, prints and graphics and other related materials pertaining to all aspects of the Civil War, from the lives of enlisted Union soldiers and their families back home, to camp life and battlefield medicine, and the political issues that gripped the nation. ...more information Clark (John Laing) John Laing Clark of the law firm Edwards and Angell in Providence, R.I., collected this material on labor law, specifically wage and price stabilization, over the course of 32 years. Included are notes, pamphlets, newspaper clippings, reports, forms, government documents, law letters and manuals. ...more information Cohen (Louis) The Louis Cohen papers contain correspondence with salesmen and sales managers during his employment as a sales representative with Optimum Book Marketing and St. Martin’s Press/Holtzbrinck Publishers. There are also memoranda, notes, brochures, advertisements, reviews, invitations, stationery, photographs and 2 audiocassette tapes relating to his work and to his association with the Brotherhood of Book Travelers, later the Association of Book Travelers. ...more information Conjunctions Magazine This collection contains author files, correspondence, edited setting copies, first author's corrected galleys, publisher's corrected galleys, various sets of corrected editorial galleys and proofs, second proofs, final mock-ups, many original typescripts and some xeroxes either with original holograph corrections by the author, editor, and/or printer, bluelines and camera-ready materials. The material dates from 1970 to 2008, with the bulk from 1990 to 2007. ...more information Corbett (Scott) The Scott Corbett papers contain a variety of material related to his career as a writer as well as personal memorabilia from his childhood and service in the United States Army during World War II. These papers also include Elizabeth Corbett's personal and business papers and artwork by the illustrator and author Don Freeman. ...more information Cover-to-Cover The Cover-to-Cover Collection was developed by Prof. Robert Scholes of the Modernist Journals Project. The goal is to collect and preserve important journals from the Modernist period in complete issues, including covers and advertisements. The impetus for building the Collection was the discovery, as the MJP began searching for issues of journals to include in its digital project, that the vast majority of libraries had routinely stripped covers and advertisements prior to binding, resulting in a gap in the historical record now perceived as significant. It is expected that the Cover to Cover Collection will be added to over time. ...more information Crosby (Harry) Harry Crosby (born 1898) was an American poet and publisher also known as Henry Sturgis Crosby or Henry Grew Crosby. An American expatriate in Paris in the 1920s, his work expresses his disapproval of Puritan hypocrisy and his fascination for the cult of the sun. His Black Sun Press published special editions of James Joyce, T.S. Eliot, and other contemporaries. Crosby committed suicide in New York on 10 December 1929.The collection includes 19 letters to Constance Atherton, Comtesse de Jumilhac; letters from Atherton and related correspondence; two notebooks with letter and unpublished aphorisms addressed to Atherton; book belonging to Harry and Caresse Crosby; ten manuscript notebooks; page proofs (bound) for Shadows of the Sun and for Chariot of the Sun; other writings; two albums of photographs; and Caresse Crosby's correspondence with several writers/editors/publishers. The collection also includes Crosby's last will and testament; typescript (carbon) of his The De Geetere Maldoror; and a biographical sketch of him written by his wife, Caresse Crosby. ...more information Cushman (Asa) Plays in Parts and Prompt Copies Plays in manuscript parts and prompt copies, the working library of a mid-19th century actor-manager. Includes 24 American and 21 English plays in manuscript, and 385 English and American printed plays of the 18th and 19th century, with Cushman's notes. Notable for a copy in parts of Uncle Tom's Cabin; Cushman was the original Tom Loker in the 1852 production of George Aiken's version of the play. ...more information Cutter (Bloodgood H.) The Bloodgood H. Cutter papers consist of 47 manuscripts of poetry which were published in the collection of poems, The Long Island farmer's poems, New York, 1886. ...more information Damon (S. Foster) Festival The S. Foster Damon Festival papers consists of approximately 50 items from 1967-1968 relating to the 75th birthday party of S. Foster Damon and the S. Foster Damon Festival at Brown University. S. Foster Damon was an American poet, William Blake scholar, Brown University professor of English (1927-1963), and curator of the Harris Collection, Brown University Library (1930-1963). ...more information Davenport The Davenport Collection, an endowed gift from Dr. James Henry Davenport, containing "books on medical history, medical biography and extra-curricular writings of physicians." It is these extra-curricular writings that give the collection its eclectic flavor. Included are books by physician authors in the fields of history, biography, travel narratives,fiction, poetry and drama, as well as many other works from The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes (London, 1892) by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle to Oliver Wendell Holmes's The Poet at the Breakfast-Table(Boston,1872). Part of the Rhode Island Medical Society Collection. ...more information Davis (Sonia H. and Nathaniel A.) Sonia H. Davis (1883-1972), of Jewish and Ukrainian heritage, was a business woman, milliner, writer, editor, amateur journalist and publisher. She was married briefly (1924-1926) to Howard Phillips Lovecraft with whom she collaborated on several literary projects. In 1936, she married Nathaniel A. Davis (1866-1945) of Jewish and Portuguese heritage who was a writer, editor, educator, social activist, entrepreneur, world traveler, publisher, journalist and founder of Planetaryan, a humanitarian organization devoted to world peace. They were married in California and lived there for the remainder of their lives. This collection dates from 1879 to 1972 (bulk from 1930 to the early 1940s) and documents the lives and literary works of Sonia and Nathaniel. It is a good source of documentation for anyone interested in U.S. social, political and religious history, especially around the period of World War II. It is also a good source for those who are interested in American literature, especially in religious poetry and didactic literature. This collection does not include any primary source materials originating from H.P. Lovecraft, nor does it contain much by way of direct documentation about him except for a published memoir of him written by Mrs. Davis (Books at Brown, vol. XI, nos. 1-2), a copy of which is included in this collection. ...more information De Jong (David Cornel) David Cornel De Jong was the author of 13 novels, 5 children’s books, several books of poetry and numerous short stories. His poems and articles were published in publications such as Nation, Poetry, Southern Review, and Atlantic Monthly. He was born in 1905 in Blija, Friesland Province, The Netherlands. Soon after, his family moved to Groningen, and then to Wierum in the Netherlands. His family came to the United States in 1918 when he was thirteen. They settled in Grand Rapids, Michigan. He received a masters degree from Duke University in 1932 and then began his doctorate at Brown University in but shifted to writing full time before completing his Ph.D. He remained in Providence the remainder of his life. He died September, 1967. His papers include drafts of his writings, correspondence with friends and colleagues, diaries, photographs, scrapbooks, and personal papers. Of particular note is De Jong's card catalog, consisting of annotated card entries for his written works. The cards are arranged alphabetically by title and include the publication history for each one. His writings include novels and longer works, short stories, essays, and poems. ...more information December Press Curtis L. Johnson (1928-2008) oversaw December Press, a literary press in Chicago, from 1962 until his death in 2008. The press published December, A Magazine of Arts and Opinion and several novels. This collection includes correspondence with authors, manuscripts, and financial records relating to the activities of the magazine and the press. ...more information Dickinson Family Includes the following material, some of which relates to Emily Dickinson: [1] 125 letters of Edward (Ned) Austin Dickinson to William Austin Dickinson and Susan Huntington Gilbert Dickinson; [2] scrapbook of Martha Gilbert Dickinson Bianchi; [3] scrapbook of Mary M. Warner (afterwards Mrs. Edward Payson Crowell) ...more information Eigner (Larry) Larry Eigner was an American poet associated with the Black Mountain Poets of the 1950s, and his work was included under that heading in the landmark 1960 anthology The New American Poetry, edited by Donald M. Allen. Formally, Eigner's poetry marks an important development in the use of line and page introduced by the Modernists in the 1920s. The Eigner papers consist of over three hundred items including manuscripts, carbon copies and photocopies of typewritten manuscripts, carbon copies and photocopies of typewritten manuscripts. Eigner's correspondence illustrates his view of contemporary poetry and poets, his comments on the publication of, and about, his work, and his personal thoughts. Eigner died in 1996 from complications related to pneumonia. ...more information Elliott (Maud Howe) Correspondence (mostly dating between 1890 and 1940), manuscripts, lectures and scrapbooks of a Newport-based literary figure who was the daughter of the poet Julia Ward Howe and activist Samuel Gridley Howe, and wife of the artist John Elliott. The collection includes unpublished manuscripts for Elliott's memoirs "Afternoon Tea" and "Memories of Eighty Years." ...more information Fells Library A collection of books compiled by the family and descendants of John Milton Hay (1838-1905) at the Hay family summer home on Lake Sunapee near Newport, New Hampshire. The collection represents the taste and reading habits primarily of John Hay and his son, ethnologist Clarence Leonard Hay (1884-1969), as well as John Hay's wife Clara and daughters Alice and Helen (a poet and children's book author), and Clarence Hay's wife Alice Appleton and son John (born 1915, a renowned nature writer). Many titles were author presentation copies to members of the Hay family, and a some contain personal inscriptions. A few volumes may have been added later by staff at the Fells as references on the Hay family and their social circle. ...more information Fisher (Rudolph) Rudolph Fisher (Class of 1919) was a Providence native, a medical doctor specializing in radiology and a leading figure in the Harlem Renaissance of the 1920s and 1930s. His papers primarily contain various drafts and published copies of twenty-six of his short stories and novels, as well as book reviews and essays. The collection also contains correspondence, publicity materials, personal papers, family papers and newsclippings. Materials cover Fisher's life from 1919 to his death in 1934, as well as the work on behalf of Fisher done by his sister, Pearl, until 1983. ...more information Fox (Mary Borland Thayer) The Mary Borland Thayer Fox papers consist chiefly of Fox's own writings, written under the pseudonym, "Mary Borland." The collection includes poetry, short stories and essays, ballet libretti, and a diary detailing a visit in 1936 to the Soviet Union. In addition, the collection contains several scrapbooks; commonplace books; sheet music, written for her or simply given to her as a gift; news clippings and copies of literary journals in which her work appeared; and finally, correspondence, either addressed to her in response to some of her published writings, or written in regard to the publication of a posthumous volume of her work. ...more information Frost (Edwin Collins) and William Henry Frost This collection, dating from 1890 to 1941, consists of letters addressed to both Edwin Collins Frost (1867-1956) and William Henry Frost (1863-1902) and a small autograph collection. Edwin Collins Frost was an assistant and instructor of rhetoric at Brown University from 1895 to 1898 and the cataloguer of Marsden J. Perry's Shakespeare Collection from 1901 to 1907. William Henry Frost joined the New York Tribune in 1887 as a reporter and drama critic and was the author of four books for children. ...more information Gay Pulp Fiction A growing collection of over 4,700 volumes of gay men's pulp fiction. They range in date from 1933-1997 with the bulk published during 1953-1997. A small number of lesbian-interest titles are included. The collection began with the acquisition of a large private collection and has been supplemented with various purchases and gifts by works from two other collections of gay literature, the Scott O'Hara Papers, and the James Jackson bequest. See searchable database. Stored off-site. ...more information Greene (Josiah) Josiah Greene (Brown class of 1933) wrote several novels and countless short stories over his long career, including Not in Our Stars, for which he won the MacMillan Centenary Award for the best manuscript by a member of the armed forces. This collection includes correspondence; royalty records and records of publicity programs; reviews; and drafts of short stories and novels. ...more information Greene Memorial The name by which the collection of manuscripts by and relating to Albert Gorton Greene has been known. It is now more properly cited as Ms. Greene. The Greene Memorial is a collection of materials relating to Judge Albert Gorton Greene, 1802-1868, the founder of the Harris Collection of American Poetry and Plays. Included are fourteen watercolors of Italian and Roman ruins painted by Judge Greene; two paintings by Giovanni Thompson related to poems by Greene; a manuscript copybook of letters from John Quincy Adams to his son about the Bible; manuscripts and letters; certificates; daguerrotypes; scrapbooks of poems; autograph albums; deeds; and a sea-letter of the brig Clinton signed "G. Washington, 1795." ...more information Greenough (Jenine Bates) Jenine Bates Greenough was a highly educated, literary woman who divided her life between two western Massachusetts river towns. This collection of correspondence reflects Greenough�s interests in education, poetry, and cultural and literary matters. ...more information Hanna (Muriel Marjorie Boos) The Muriel Marjorie Boos Hanna papers consist primarily of poetry by Muriel Hanna (dating from 1976 to 1989), drafts, notes and a draft of a compilation of poems, as well as a printed collection. An active member of the Rhode Island State Poetry Society, Hanna wrote of nature, family, and personal experiences in her poems. Included in the papers are poems by Hanna's grandmother, Emma Doan (Evans) Nicholas, whose poems describe her life a farm in New Jersey, provide information about the Grange, and gender roles in rural life in the early twentieth century. ...more information Harper Square Press Harper Square press was a publisher of poetry compillations, founded and edited by Phyllis Ford-Choyke and Arthur Davis Choyke and based in Chicago, Illinois. This collection includes manuscript poems, correspondence, biographical sketches, working papers, and business records. ...more information Harris (Louise) Hattie Louise Harris was born on September 28, 1903 in Warwick, Rhode Island. She was the daughter of Samuel P. Harris and Faustine Borden Harris. Miss Harris graduated from Pembroke College at Brown University in 1926, where she majored in economics. Miss Harris is best known for her historical research concerning the history and authorship of the Pledge of Allegiance to the flag and for her writing regarding C.A. Stephens, a medical doctor who wrote for the magazine The Youth’s Companion from 1871 until his death in 1931. She published several books regarding the American flag and the history and authorship of the Pledge of Allegiance, including The Flag over the Schoolhouse (1971), Old Glory: Long May She Wave (1981) and Time for Truth (1987). The Louise Harris papers include a variety of materials, chiefly correspondence, research materials and galley proofs, related to her writings concerning C.A. Stephens, The Youth's Companion, and the Pledge of Allegiance to the flag. The papers also include personal correspondence; certificates and plaques from various organizations; scrapbooks related to her book A Chuckle and a Laugh: A Tale of the C.A. Stephens Collection; printed material such as magazines, journals, and newspapers; photographs, microfilms, audiocassettes and items related to her interst in geneology. The material in these papers is dated from 1890 to 1990. Most is dated between 1960 and 1985. ...more information Harris Collection of American Poetry and Plays The Harris Collection of American Poetry and Plays is composed of approximately 250,000 volumes of American and Canadian poetry, plays, and vocal music dating from 1609 to the present day. It is perhaps the largest and most comprehensive collection of its kind in any research library. The works of most well-known (and many thousands of little-known) American and Canadian poets and playwrights, from the 18th century to the present day, are held comprehensively. There are significant holdings of early American literature, hymnals, songsters, little magazines, contemporary fine printing, extensive collections on Walt Whitman and Edgar Allan Poe, women's writings, gay and lesbian literature, modern first editions, Yiddish-American literature, and French-Canadian literature. The Collection is fully cataloged, with records available in Josiah, the Library's online catalog.. Includes periodicals, broadsides, recordings, films, electronic resources, manuscripts, prints and photographs. ...more information Hawkes (John) Author's last poems and letters on love and creativity before he turned to writing fiction. Written mostly at Hastings-on-Hudson, New York, in the five months preceding his marriage to Sophie Tazewell. One of two photocopies made by the author. "No other photocopies will be made." ...more information Hay (John,1915-2011) The collection represents a portion of the letters, journals, manuscripts and research materials of the Burroughs medal winning naturalist, writer and poet John Hay (1915-2011). ...more information Honig (Edwin) These papers consist of handwritten drafts, typescripts, printouts, galleys, worksheets, etc. of Honig's poems, reviews, and translations. The papers include little correspondence. Also consists of manuscript material relating to published work in poetry and translation, including: THE POET'S OTHER VOICE; LA DOROTEA. ENGLISH; THE POEMS OF FERNANDO PESSOA; GIFTS OF LIGHT; SPRING JOURNAL; INTERRUPTED PRAISE. Includes files of his interviews/conversations with translators in preparation for the work THE POET'S OTHER VOICE. Also includes his translations (typescripts with manuscript corrections and printer's copies) of four plays of Pedro Calderon de la Barca. ...more information Humphrey (James) This collection consists of the literary and personal papers of the poet James Humphrey. It includes correspondence with poets, publishers, friends and family; manuscripts for poems, novels, screenplays, essays and short stories, both published and unpublished; unframed abstract artwork, photographs and scrapbooks. The audio material in these papers consists of one audiocassette, two compact discs and eight reel-to-reel tapes. The papers are dated from 1957 to 2009. ...more information Hunt (E. Howard) The collection comprises correspondence between E. Howard Hunt (Brown University, Class of 1940), W. Chesley Worthington (Brown University, Class of 1923), Bruce M. Bigelow (Brown University, Class of 1924), and Elmer M. Blistein (Brown University, Class of 1942). The correspondence with Worthington and Bigelow chiefly dates from Hunt's military service during and immediately following World War II. The bulk of the collection comprises correspondence between Hunt and Blistein, commencing in 1969 when Blistein asked Hunt to speak at a retirement dinner honoring I.J. Kapstein, and continuing through 1993, the year of Blistein's death. The two wrote frequently, if irregularly, on wide-ranging topics including personal and professional news, reminiscences, and their mutual affiliation with Brown University. Materials include typescript and autograph correspondence, postcards, and clippings. ...more information Inman (Arthur Crew) Correspondence, poems, fiction, drama, essays, galley proofs, and printed notices or reviews of the published work of an Atlanta-born 20th century American poet. Collection includes transcripts of correspondence of Gen. George Pickett and his wife, LaSalle Corbell Pickett, from which Inman prepared an edited volume. Correspondents include George P. Baker, Alice H. Bartlett, Gamaliel Bradford, Abbie F. Brown, Edgar Guest, DuBose Heyward, Walter Lippmann, Josephine Peabody, H. L. Mencken, Bliss Perry, and Edward A. Robinson. ...more information Jackson (James) Approximately 1,900 titles in the area of gay/lesbian literature, much of it dating from the pre-Stonewall era. The Jackson Collection contains many titles not proviously owned by Brown and virtually all are in very good condition and retain their dust jackets. There are a quite a few lesbian-related titles which fills in a gap in our existing holdings and quite a few gay-related science fiction and fantasy titles which complement one of existing collection strengths. Quite a few of the books are signed or inscribed, this being particularly true of the post-Stonewall titles. ...more information Jenckes (Thomas Allen) One box, chiefly correspondence to Thomas Allen Jenckes, Congressional Representative from Rhode Island, about legal matters and legislative affairs for the period of 1837 to 1870. ...more information John Hay (1838-1905) In July of 1905, John Milton Hay (Class of 1858, perhaps the most famous Brown graduate of his day) died in office as U.S. Secretary of State. The following year his widow, Clara Stone Hay, presented 400 books and manuscripts from Hay's personal library to Brown. These books include many volumes which are inscribed to John Hay. ...more information Katzoff (Richard G.) The collection, named in honor of Richard G. Katzoff and housed in the John Hay Library at Brown University, consists primarily of literary works relating to gays and lesbians, with a small component of history and sociology; most are U.S. publications. The core of the Collection is the gift of books, primarily novels dating from the 1970s and 1980s, received in 1991 from the estate of Richard Katzoff, supplemented by the library and personal writings of John Preston, journalist, author and editor of gay literature (the Library also houses Preston's papers). In addition, the Collection includes the publications of Larry Townsend (sadomasochistic fiction and pictorial erotica), many books from the library of Edmund White, an extensive collection of contemporary lesbian fiction, and many other smaller donations of gay and lesbian writings. Materials continue to be added to the Collection by gift and purchase; an endowment has been established for that purpose by the Katzoff family. More recent acquisitions include the Gay Pulp Fiction collection containing over 4,700 titles of gay pulp fiction published between 1933-1997 with the bulk created during 1953-1997. ...more information Kiernan, Caitlín Caitlín Rebekah Kiernan is a science fiction writer and vertebrate paleontologist who has published novels, short stories, comics, and scientific articles. In addition to the books and stories she has published, Kiernan also worked with DC Comics to complete a sixty-issue series of comics called The Dreaming during 1997-2001. She publishes Sirenia Digest which is an online "monthly journal of the weirdly erotic." She also contributes entries most days to her blog which began on November 23, 2001 as "Grey Girl Beast" and then renamed as "Dear Sweet Filthy World" (https://greygirlbeast.livejournal.com/). Between 1996 and 1997, Kiernan was the vocalist and lyricist for a "goth-folk-blues band," called Death's Little Sister based in Athens, Georgia. This collection contains her handwritten journal from childhood and other juvenilia, drafts of comics, edited manuscripts of novels and short stories, correspondence with fiction editors, correspondence with paleontologists, manuscripts and journals of paleontology work, her desktop computer, and collectibles from the band Death's Little Sister. ...more information Kikel (Rudy) These papers represent a comprehensive portrait of Rudy Kikel, a distinguished gay poet, scholar, and journalist, and a staunch supporter of gay and lesbian writers and artists. Kikel was also the arts and entertainment editor for Bay Windows, New England's leading LGBT weekly, beginning in 1983 when it was first established until he retired in 2004. This collection consists of a variety of materials, the bulk of which date from the early 1960s to 2004. It includes an extensive compilation of manuscripts of Kikel's poetry, copies of his scholarly and professional writings, an assortment of significant LGBT periodicals, and correspondence from many acclaimed gay poets, including Thom Gunn, Richard Howard, Felice Picano, Paul Monette, and James Merrill, to cite just a few. ...more information Kinter (William L.) Chiefly letters to William L. Kinter from William Everson, Allen Ginsberg, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Denise Levertov, and other modern poets; also photographs, play bills, postcards, and clippings. ...more information Koopman (Henry Lyman) Harry Lyman Koopman (1860-1937 ) was librarian from 1893 to 1930. In honor of Koopman at his retirement, Philip D. Sherman, class of 1902, who had been his student, presented his collection of literature, book arts, and the history of the book to the Library. "This collection contains over 5,000 first editions and rare books, manuscripts and association items, plus prints, drawings, and broadsides. It is a rich source for the study of English literature and the growth of fine printing from the works of Caxton and Chaucer in the 15th century to William Morris and William Butler Yeats in the 19th and 20th centuries." The Koopman Collection is notable for its prose fiction by Cooper, Irving, Holmes, and Melville, and for the collection of the works of Thackeray and Dickens issued in parts. Intended as a laboratory collection for the study of the art and history of the book, it includes the production of many late 19th century private presses, books issued in parts, and literary relics. Prints, Photographs, Museum objects, Specimen leaves listed in Koopman Accession book (in Archives). ...more information Land (Jon) Brown University graduate and Rhode Island native Jon Land has written upwards of twenty political thrillers. This collection contains several drafts of fourteen of his novels, including final drafts and publisher edits. ...more information Laughlin (James) Bequest of James Laughlin, poet and publisher of New Directions Press, and the gifts of his widow. It is composed of approximately 5,000 volumes from his personal library, and focuses on editions of William Carlos Williams, Ezra Pound, Gertrude Stein, Thomas Merton, and other major 20th century literary figures. At Mr. Laughlin's invitation, Library staff specifically selected authors and titles from his extensive collection for the express purpose of adding complementary prose titles to the Harris Collection's holdings of 20th century poetry and plays. Uncataloged. Lists available ...more information Lawson (Todd S. J.) Todd S. J. Lawson was an accomplished mid-to-late twentieth century gay writer of both prose and poetry, a small press publisher and editor, and a journalist. This collection consists of a variety of materials, the bulk of which dates from the early 1970s to the mid-1980s, and includes manuscripts, correspondence, print materials, business records, and a small collection of photographs and ephemeral materials. In addition to a substantial collection of manuscripts mainly from Lawson's own writings, it includes a significant number of printing proofs, and an interesting collection of scattered issues, including a few historic titles, from a variety of small press periodicals. ...more information Linton (William James) The William James Linton Papers of Brown University contains material reflecting the three major spheres of activity--literary, artistic, and political--to which Linton chiefly devoted himself during the course of his long life. The literary manuscripts, correspondence to and from Linton, sketchbooks, drawings, and photographs, which comprise the chief part of this collection, are materials which will serve the researcher in good stead in attempting to understand Linton's various achievements. When considered in conjunction with the large holdings of printed Linton materials in various collections elsewhere within the Brown University Library, the papers comprising the Linton Papers described here take on added significance, insofar as they serve well to complement those printed holdings. Special interest may attach to some of the literary manuscripts in this collection, "Love's Diary", "Mr. Joseph", and "Blue-Beard", which are as yet unpublished. The researcher may also be especially interested in the correspondence involving noteworthy personalities, such as Winslow Homer, Christina Rossetti, Algernon Charles Swinburne, et al. ...more information Lovecraft (Howard P.) Lovecraft, the eccentric Providence author of fantasy and horror tales for the pulp magazines of the 1920's, is now recognized as one of the seminal figures in the development of the science fiction genre. The collection includes extensive holdings of manuscripts, letters, editions of Lovecraft's works in all languages, periodicals, biographical and critical works, and many supportive collections of manuscript and printed materials of Lovecraft friends and associates. There are more than 1,000 books and magazines, in 20 languages, containing material by or about Lovecraft plus over 2,000 original letters and manuscripts of his essays, fiction and poetry. Many of the papers were deposited in the library a few months after Lovecraft's death in 1937; others have been added by gift and purchase over the years. Note: In the summer of 2013, students in Brown's Public Humanities program developed an augmented reality tour of Lovecraft's Providence for NecronomiCon Providence. Further information is available at: calloflovecraft.com ...more information Lownes (Albert Edgar) on Henry David Thoreau The Albert E. Lownes Collection on Henry David Thoreau was received in 1967 as a gift from Albert E. Lownes, Class of 1920. It consists of over 1,000 items, and includes books by Thoreau, later editions of his writing, biographical and critical works, and books from his personal library. It contains first editions for each of Thoreau's separately published books and pamphlets as well as a virtually complete selection of his contrib utions to periodicals. Of particular note are a number of annotated volumes from Thoreau's personal library and original manuscript fragments from his Journals, The Maine Woods, and A Week on the Concord and Merrimack Rivers. There are also periodicals, engravings, photographs, a striking original sketch of Thoreau, maps, broadsides, museum objects, and other memorabilia. The Collection includes a number of Thoreau letters, college papers and journal excerpts. Especially noteworthy is an album entitled "Concordia", a collection of autograph letters, portraits, and original sketches of Concord personalities, compiled by Rev. Moncure Daniel Conway. ...more information Luce (Nancy) The Nancy Luce Papers comprise manuscripts poems, accounts, journals, photographs, family papers and clippings that cover the period from 1725 to 1964. ...more information Maas (Willard) The Maas Papers consist of approximately five hundred letters, manuscripts, page proofs, photographs, drawings, play scripts, and film scripts from the period 1931-1967. ...more information Mallon (Thomas) Thomas Mallon is a novelist and critic. He attended Brown University as an undergraduate and earned a Master of Arts and a Ph.D. from Harvard. The papers include manuscripts of the novels Henry and Clara, Dewey Defeats Truman, Aurora 7, Fellow Travelers, and most recently Watergate. ...more information Man (Mary) The Mary Man Literary Manuscripts consist of twenty items that fall within the years 1765 and 1812. They contain copy-books, notebooks, and other manuscripts of Mary Man, with original and copied verse on mostly religious themes, as well as biblical and sermon extracts. Also included are manuscripts by Thomas Man, Mary Howe, Olive Fisk, Sukey Fisk, and unidentified authors. ...more information Martin (Kathryn) Kathryn Martin taught English literature and composition in public and private schools from 1941 through 1967. She also published one novel, The Departure, a nonfiction book about her teaching experiences, A Question of Age: The Dorm and I, and several works of poetry. This collection includes correspondence; manuscripts of Martin’s short stories, novels, and poems; research notes; and personal records. ...more information Masters (Edgar Lee) The Masters papers consist chiefly of letters to his son, Hilary T. Masters; along with poems, short stories, sketches, and two letters from H. L. Mencken to Hilary Masters. ...more information Metcalf (Edward De Forest) Edward De Forest Metcalf (1924-1968) was a Providence writer of poetry and short stories. Metcalf's papers contain numerous drafts and fragments as well as complete literary works. Included in the papers is a compilation Edward De Forest Metcalf's writings that was published after his death by his father, George T. Metcalf. ...more information Middlebrook (Diane) Papers of Diane Middlebrook, biographer, poet, and Professor Emeritus of English at Stanford University. Collection includes correspondence, subject and research files, interview transcripts, manuscript drafts, photographs, and electronic records, primarily relating to her biographical research on Anne Sexton, Sylvia Plath and Ted Hughes, Billy Tipton, and Ovid, between 1958-2008. ...more information Miller The Miller Collection, consisting of approximately 40,000 volumes, is the personal library of Bernard, Saul, and George Miller, amassed over a period of fifty years and donated to Brown University in the early 1990s. The Collection consists primarily of 20th-century American imprints, but also includes significant sections of 19th-century joke books, British imprints, and works in Russian, Hebrew, French, German, and Italian. The Collection includes early humor material, such as Joe Miller's Jests, or The Wit's Vade-Mecum (London, 1739), and Yankee Notions, or, The American Joe Miller, by Sam Slick (London, 1839). There are also sections of comic novels, familiar essays by humorists, political satire, light verse, theatrical memoirs of comedy performers, vaudeville routines, collections of political cartoons, paperback joke and cartoon books, and playscripts; and a notable section of "Army joke books", pulp periodicals from the World War II era. Materials in this collection, which comprise a part of the cultural and historical record, depict offensive and objectionable perspectives, imagery, and norms. ...more information Moore (Robin) These are the personal papers and manuscripts of American writer Robert Lowell "Robin" Moore, Jr. best known for his books "The Green Berets", "The French Connection: A True Account of Cops, Narcotics, and International Conspiracy", and "The Happy Hooker: My Own Story." He also kept a detailed diary of his trip to Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe) during April 1979 and about which he later wrote articles and essays. His papers include correspondence, diaries, manuscripts for published and unpublished works, photographs, audio recordings, films, and documents relating to his lawsuit against Jonathan Keith "Jack" Idema. ...more information Murray collection on Robert Hayden This collection consists chiefly of study guides to Robert Hayden's poetry. There is some correspondence, photographs, print outs, photocopies of Hayden's poems, extracts from interviews with Hayden, newspaper clippings and a bibliography of both primary and secondary sources. ...more information Newton Family Manuscript copies of 18th and 19th century broadside verse, made by members of the Newton family, chiefly Mrs. Miriam Newton and Miss Nancy Newton, with an occasional original piece; accounts, genealogies, verse and prose; copies of sermons; excerpts from religious books; biographies of famous people; accounts of local weather; newsworthy local events. Compiled mostly in Southboro, Massachusetts, and Marlboro, New Hampshire. ...more information Norris (Curtis B.) Curtis Bird Norris and his father Lowell Ames Norris were both prolific producers of detective stories. The collection contains correspondence, original drafts, typescripts, diaries, scrapbooks, crime case files, photographs, clippings, memorabilia, and cassettes relating to their writing. Also included is material relating to the public affairs work of Curtis B. Norris at Brown and Stonehill colleges, his Ledger column, and background on the "Phantom P-40" story. ...more information O'Hara Literary and personal papers, 1979-1998, of Scott O'Hara (1961-1998), pornographic film actor, author, magazine publisher, also containing publications that include material by or about him. The gay pulp paperbacks acquired as part of this collection are listed in the Gay Pulp Fiction database. ...more information Old Man and the Sea The Old Man and the Sea Collection consists of editions of Hemingway's novel, including translations into many languages, plus critical and biographical works on Hemingway. Notable is the first printing of the work in Life magazine in 1952. Gift of Lyman G. Bloomingdale, class of 1935, in 1978. ...more information Orwell In 1997 Daniel J. and Katharine Kyes Leab donated one of the largest and most important gatherings of George Orwell material in private hands to the Brown University Library. Consisting primarily of printed works by and about Orwell, the Leab Collection contains first and subsequent editions of all of his books, from Down and Out in Paris and London to Nineteen Eighty-Four. In addition, the Leab Collection contains a small, select group of manuscripts, as well as books owned by the author, including school books signed "Eric Blair," Orwell's birth name, and a considerable body of ephemeral material. In 1992 Daniel G. Siegel, Class of 1957, donated to the Brown University Library the manuscript of George Orwell's last novel, Nineteen Eighty-Four. Containing almost half of the published text of Nineteen Eighty-Four this is the only substantial Orwell manuscript which was not destroyed by the author. Bibliographic access to this material is available via Josiah, the Library's online catalog, thanks to a gift from Lyman G. Bloomingdale, Class of 1935. ...more information Paterson (William) The William Paterson Papers, dating from 1919-2003, includes photographs, plays in manuscript, an autobiography in manuscript, a pen and ink drawing, clippings, military decorations, acting awards, pamphlets, and other documents. Paterson, a Brown University graduate (Class of 1941) and a World War II veteran, was an actor by profession. He joined the Cleveland Playhouse in 1947 and worked there for the next 20 years. In 1967 he joined the American Conservatory Theatre where he remained for over 30 years. He also occasionally performed in television and film productions. ...more information Philbrick (Charles) Charles H. Philbrick (1922-1971) received his B.A. from Brown University in 1947, his M.A. in 1948, and his Ph.D. in 1953. He was a poet, author and professor of English at Brown University for 25 years. The Philbrick Collection consists of nearly 1,800 items, including over 250 autograph manuscripts of Philbrick's poetry and prose written between the 1940's and 1971. The remainder of the collection consists of personal and literary correspondence, correspondence with publishers and literary journals, legal documents, book reviews, and news clippings. ...more information Philbrick (Charles) correspondence with Hilary Master Charles Philbrick (Class of 1947, 1953 PhD) was a poet who taught English at Brown University and won the Wallace Stevens Prize from the Academy of American Poets. The papers are personal correspondence, predominantly from Philbrick to Hilary Masters (class of 1952), a novelist, essayist, and short-story writer. ...more information Phonorecords (Special Collections) Phonorecords in special collections include those collected for the Harris Collection, focusing on recordings of poets reading their works, American folk music, and cast recordings of musical plays. Other collections include approximately 1,000 78 recordings, primarily of popular music. The Archives has recordings of speeches and events at Brown University. A few other named collections include small sections of phonorecordings appropriate to the subjects of the collections. ...more information Pillar Children's Literature The Dr. Arlene Pillar Collection of Children's Literature consists of over 3,000 volumes of children's literature primarily form the 1970s and 1980s, including many illustrated works and fiction for young adults. Dr. Pillar was a panelist for the Newbury and Caldecott awards for children's literature and illustration, and her collection reflects the range of work submitted for those awards over two decades. ...more information Poetry Mission The records for the Poetry Mission include correspondence, minutes, financial records, publicity records, and original poetry sent as submissions from poets all around the northeastern region of the United States. Of note are the records and submissions collected and used for the 1994 publication of the poetry anthology called A Glass of Green Tea – With Honig in honor of Rhode Island poet Edwin Honig. ...more information Powel (Harford W.H.) T.S. Eliot This material was collected by Powel for his master's thesis, Notes on the life of T. S. Eliot 1888-1910, Brown University, 1954. Autograph and typed letters to and from Eliot's classmates; miscellaneous manuscripts relating to T. S. Eliot and Harvard College ca. 1909; photostats of selected contributions by Eliot to Smith Academy Record and Harvard Advocate. ...more information Preston (John) John Preston authored over 30 books, ranging from fiction and erotica to such important non-fiction titles as Personal Dispatches: Writers Confront AIDS and Hometowns: Gay Men Write About Where They Belong. The Preston archive is especially important in that it contains many thousands of letters between Preston and a vast array of authors that comment upon matters both literary and socio-historical. Among Preston's most prolific correspondents was Ann Rice, author of the Vampire Chronicles, whose papers provide insight into the link between straight/gay and erotic/mainstream fiction. ...more information Redding (J. Saunders) Born in Wilmington, Delaware, Saunders Redding graduated from Brown in 1928. After two years of teaching he returned to Brown to earn an A.M. in 1932. A writer and specialist in African-American Literature, Redding spent the majority of his teaching career at the Hampton Institute in Hampton, Virginia, where he was Professor of English from 1943 to 1966. He subsequently taught at taught Duke, George Washington and Cornell Universities. In 1949, he returned to Brown for a brief stint as a visiting Professor, thus becoming the first African American to teach at an Ivy League school. He later served as Director of the National Endowment for the Humanities Division of Research and Publications from 1966 to 1969. The Redding papers cover his long career as a writer, academic and administrator, and document his involvement with numerous African American organizations and causes. ...more information Review Club The Review Club records include papers and materials of the Review Club at Brown University, an informal organization aimed at the study and discussion of literature and culture. The collection includes booklets, manuscripts, correspondence, and ephemera related to the organization and its members. ...more information Rhode Island Writers' Guild This collection consists of administrative records, correspondence, newsletters, scrapbooks, photographs, clippings, and proclamations from the Rhode Island Writers' Guild, founded by Ruth Eddy in 1950 . The collection also includes original poetry, prose and music written by guild members. ...more information Riley (Denise) This collection consists of the papers of Denise Riley, poet, essayist, and feminist theorist. The collection is comprised of research notebooks, loose notes, writings, and other material, which documents Riley's poetry and thinking on feminist and political theory. The Denise Riley papers date from 1970-1992. ...more information Rodney (Thomas) Personal papers and records of Thomas Rodney, including letters, essays, notes on court cases in Mississippi and Delaware (1791 to 1810), a journal about personal matters and Delaware politics (1792-1800), and manuscript poetry. ...more information Romance Novels The romance novels included in this database, along with the working papers of their authors, were acquired in conjunction with the establishment of the Christine Dunlap Farnham Archive, which is "dedicated to preserving and the continued collection of materials documenting the history of women in Brown University and Pembroke College, the post-graduate lives of Brown University and Pembroke College alumnae, and the lives of Rhode Island women." The authors are Barbar Kieler, Jo Ann Ferguson, Patricia Coughlin, and Sylvia Baumgarten. In addition to works by the Brown and Rhode Island authors listed, works by over 30 other romance authors appear in the database in cases where they have been anthologized with these four authors. The novels include titles translated into many languages ...more information Russell (John C.) The John C. Russell papers are a collection of the late playwright's scripts, notebooks, journals, correspondence, photographs and personal documents, most of them produced during the six years before his death in 1994. ...more information San Fernando Poetry Journal Founded in 1982 by Richard Cloke, the San Fernando Poetry Journal published only poetry. This collection contains primarily manuscript material, including typescript poems submitted for publication, edited manuscripts, and final proofs. There are also several folders of business records and correspondence and a folder of photographs. ...more information Sargent (Frances Herriott) This collection of about 285 items traces the evolution and production of the play "Porgy" and its operatic expression, "Porgy and Bess". The collection is composed of the professional and personal papers of the assistant stage manager, Frances Herriott (later Frances Herriott Sargent), and provides insight into the major elements of production as well as the personal relationships of cast members and stage professionals. ...more information Schor (Naomi) The Naomi Schor papers span the years from 1950-2002 and consist of personal and professional correspondence, literary manuscripts, research and teaching materials, and materials from her professional activities. The collection documents Schor's career as one of the foremost scholars of French literature and critical theory and a pioneer feminist theorist of her generation. ...more information Scribner (Edwin) Edwin Scribner was born in Logansport, IN on 15 February 1879. On 27 July 1898, he quit his job in the Master Mechanics office of the Pan Handle Railroad in Logansport and, as he states in the first volume of his diary, "From that date the theater has been my interest and occupation in life.” He attended Edmund Mortimer's School of Dramatic Art and Elocution in Chicago, IL starting on 28 July 1898. He spent his life as an itinerant actor and a playwright, writing at least 50 plays many of which were published. He died in Waterville, ME on 23 Sep 1964. This collection contains unpublished typescripts for plays written by Edwin Scribner. The photographs include 5 portraits of Edwin and 5 scenes from a play in which he starred. The collection also contains a 2 volume diary written by Edwin from 1898-1921. The diary contains a running tally of all the plays in which he performed and the cities and towns he visited as part of various acting troupes. He also lists all the plays and movies he goes to see. It is an interesting and intimate record of the life of an actor who is constantly traveling. ...more information Second Coming Press Second Coming Press published poetry and essays from 1972 to 1989, including works by Charles Bukowski, Gene Fowler, Hugh Fox, Diane Kruchkow, Al Masarik, Morty Sklar, Art Cuelho, and more. This collection includes Poems and essays, correspondence and manuscripts, business records, video tapes, reel to reel tapes, posters, slides, photographs, publishers' flyers, broadsides, and tearsheets. ...more information Smith (Clark Ashton) Papers consist of Smith's correspondence, fiction, poetry, and non-fiction. Correspondents include George Sterling, Samuel Loveman, H.P. Lovecraft, August Derleth, and others. The papers also include photographs, illustrations, and printed books. ...more information Smith (Harry) Harry Smith graduated from Brown in 1957, and by 1964 he had established his own literary magazine: The Smith. He went on to establish a second magazine, Pulpsmith, as well as a small press, Smith-Publishers, which published works of poetry, fiction, nonfiction, and drama. This collection includes correspondence, book reviews, notebooks of prose and poetry, production files with galleys and page proofs, manuscripts, and photocopies. ...more information St. Martin's Press In 1997, St. Martin's Press agreed to transfer their archives - thousands of publications as well as their business files - to the Library. In addition to receiving the complete inventory of St. Martin's Press publications dating back to the founding of the press in 1952, the Library receives a copy of every new St. Martin's Press title as it is published. This gift brings to the Library the historical archive of one of the nation's most important trade publishing houses; additions to the archive take place regularly. The collection includes archival copies of books produced by St. Martin's Press, which are retained by the Press for purposes of producing reprints in the future. These books are individual catalogued in JOSIAH, but housed at the Annex as part of the Hay Library's collections. Because they have been kept primarily for archival purposes, they will be retrieved for use at the John Hay Library. ...more information Starred Book Hay Star is the general rare book collection of the Brown University Library, covering a wide range of topics. The Hay Star collection is particularly strong for 18th and 19th century materials, as well as for 20th century ephemera, and includes occasional transfers from the general collections. Travel literature and historical narratives are particular strengths. Researchers should note that many "named" collections of printed books are subsumed in Hay Star, including the following: H. P. Lovecraft collection Damon Collection of Fantasy and Imaginative Literature Ames Collection of Illustrated Books Brown-Ives Shakespeare Collection Dated Books Egyptology Collection Author collections of works by Grotius, Machiavelli, Wells and Orwell Kirk Collection on Alcoholism and Alcoholics Anonymous Pillar Collection of Children's Literature Schirmer Collection on Anti-Imperialism Swan Antarctica Collection ...more information Stone Country Press Founded, edited, and published by Judith Neeld from 1970 through 1990 Stone Country Press produced Patterns, a Literary Journal, from 1970 through 1973. In 1974 the publication changed its name to Stone Country, a Magazine of Poetry, Art and Letters. The collection is primarily made up of correspondence and manuscript drafts of material published by Stone Country Press. It also includes business records, promotional materials, and some printed items. ...more information Sunbury Press From 1974 to 1988, Sunbury Press published women poets, blue-collar poets and minority poets. Founded and run by Virginia Scott, the press was based in Bronx, New York. This collection contains the camera-ready copy of several manuscripts, NEA grant materials, business records, legal files, and circulation and promotion materials. ...more information Television Scripts Unpublished scripts representing approximately 730 different television programs (sitcoms, cop shows, satires, soap operas, musical specials) documenting American popular culture from the Truman era to the Reagan era. The collection reflects changes in American attitudes towards family, sex, politics, history, etc ...more information Third & Elm Press The archive of Alexander and Ilse Nesbitt's private press in Newport, Rhode Island. The Library also owns an extensive collection of the publications of the Third & Elm Press. ...more information Tinker (Harold L.) 3,000 volumes of 19th and 20th century American prose fiction, donated by Harold L. Tinker, Class of 1921.It included numerous first editions by Sinclair Lewis, J. P. Marquand, Kenneth Roberts, Booth Tarkington, Frank Norris, Thornton Wilder, and Thomas Wolfe. Also included are early editions of Lardner, London, Melville, Mencken, Steinbeck, Dreiser, Dos Passos, and Wharton. The collection is particularly rich in works by women authors including, among others, Mary H. Catherwood, Sarah Orne Jewett, Laura E. Richards and Harriet Beecher Stowe. Card file in shelf list area in the John Hay Library; Books arranged alphabetically by author. ...more information Tyler correspondence from E. Pound and W.C. Williams The Parker Tyler correspondence consists of forty-two letters from Ezra Pound (1885-1972) and William Carlos Williams (1883-1963), addressed to Parker Tyler, a young American poet and literary critic. This small but rich body of correspondence serves a dual function: it sheds light on Tyler's development and reputation as a writer; and, most importantly, it offers valuable insights into the personal lives and the poetic theories and techniques of two major figures in American literature. ...more information Uhlig (Richard) Consists principally of background materials--clippings, photocopies, etc.--compiled between 1984 and 1987, concerning individual novelists, poets, and playwrights born between 1885 and 1914 and deceased as of 1984, identified as having been to some degree abusers of alcohol, to be compared with other writers identified as non-abusers. Also includes materials relating to the design of survey instruments and databases; the compiler's grant application submitted to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) in March 1984, with the review panel's response in September 1985; grant application, with title "Etiology of alcohol abuse in 20th century American writers", submitted to Alcoholism Research Authority, c/o Center for Alcohol Studies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in April 1984; and a small file of correspondence ...more information Vagabond Press Letters, drawings, manuscript poems, stories, articles, and printed materials which record the workings of a small press of the American literary underground of the Sixties, under the editorship of Bennett. Also includes video tapes and audio tapes. ...more information Van Nostrand (A. D.) Papers, 1945-1997, of Professor A. D. Van Nostrand, professor emeritus of English at Brown University, including information on the Center for Research in Writing, scripts from educational television shows, textbooks regarding the functional writing model, and personal papers. ...more information Waggoner The papers and personal library of Brown faculty member Hyatt Howe Waggoner, author of American Poets and American Visionary Poetry, among other works. Many of the works include Prof. Waggoner's annotations. The papers include manuscripts and correspondence relating to his study, teaching, and writing; includes personal correspondence with colleagues and friends The papers also document Waggoner's professional activities as a scholar and teacher. They include his correspondence with publishers, and his notes, manuscripts, and correspondence relating to books he wrote. Also included in the papers are notes and clippings removed from printed volumes in his personal library. List available. ...more information Warren (Austin) Austin Warren (1899-1986) was an American literary critic and theorist. Warren was known for his writings on Alexander Pope, Henry James and Richard Cranshaw. He collaborated with Rene Wellek on Theory of Literature , one of the first works to systematize literary theory. His interests also included philosophy, music and theology. The Austin Warren papers include correspondence, manuscripts, lecture notes, journals, personal papers and photographs belonging to Austin Warren and his wife Antonia J. Warren. Most of the material is correspondence to and from Austin Warren and manuscripts written by both Austin and Antonia Warren. The papers are dated between circa 1915 and 2003. ...more information Wegelin (Oscar) Oscar Wegelin, bookseller and author, was one of the leading bibliographers in the field of early American writings. The Oscar Wegelin papers (1899-1966) contain correspondence with important scholars, litterateurs, and bibliographers. In addition, the papers contain poems, plays, and prose written by Wegelin. ...more information Weird Tales Science fiction and fantasy periodical, notable at Brown University Library for the many works by H. P. Lovecraft it published. Fragile; may not be photocopied. ...more information Wellman (Manly Wade) The Manly Wade Wellman papers consist primarily of his fiction and nonfiction manuscripts (originals, carbon copies, and page proofs), personal and professional correspondence, and financial records. Also included are a small collection of manuscripts and correspondence belonging to his wife Frances Wellman. ...more information West Coast Poetry Review Founded as a quarterly in 1970 by William Ransom, the West Coast Poetry Review was based in Reno, Nevada, and was a member of the Coordinating Council of Literary Magazines. The magazine was later published and edited by poets William Lyman Fox and Bruce McAllister. This collection includes correspondence, editorial archives (with typescript poems and prose), production archives, material relating to copyright and financial business, and printed items. ...more information Whitman (Sarah Helen) Sarah Helen (Power) Whitman (1803-1878) was a Rhode Island poet and essayist best known for her brief engagement to Edgar Allan Poe in 1848. Whitman hosted a salon in Providence that attracted many (including George William Curtis, John Neal, and John Hay) and corresponded with a number of literary luminaries. While living in Boston, Whitman became interested in Transcendentalism and other movements of the period, including woman's rights, spiritualism, mesmerism, Fourierism, and the progressive educational methods of Bronson Alcott. The papers include correspondence, poetry, genealogical information, and legal documents. ...more information Yoken (Mel) Personal collection of Mel B. Yoken assembled by the Brown University alumnus over a period of forty years. Receipt of the collection by the Brown University Library began in 1999 and is still in progress. It consists primarily of 20th century pieces of correspondence and literary works by American, British, French and Quebecois authors, artists and public figures. Numerous letters written by significant figures of the 18th and 19th century enhance the historical, literary and political interest of the collection. Notes, typescripts, photographs and personal papers complement the archive, as well as the many inscriptions, annotations and signatures in the book collection. ...more information Image Source: Edgar Allan Poe. Daguerreotype photograph by Samuel W. Hartshorn. Providence, 14 November 1848. Gift of Hortense Webster. Harris Collection of American Poetry and PLays, John Hay Library. Return to Collections A to Z Index Brown University Library | Providence, RI 02912 | (401) 863-2165 | Contact | Comments | Website Feedback | Site Map Library Intranet