<iframe height="0" src="//www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5LBRZK" style="display:none;visibility:hidden" width="0"></iframe> Skip To Content University Libraries Services Subject Librarian Services Subject Librarian Services We've assigned a subject librarian to liaise with every academic department on campus in addition to a number of programs. Consult our Find My Librarian tool to find out who is available to help you with your research and study needs. How We Help Students: Help you find the most useful resources for your class project or assignment. Show you the most efficient ways to search for information, using a variety of tools. Teach you to use RefWorks, Endnote, and other tools for managing citations and creating bibliographies in your papers. Consult with your project team. Help you bring focus to your research topic. Help you find company information to prepare for your job interview. Help you conduct your literature review for your thesis or dissertation. Show you how to cite sources correctly, using the style required for your assignment. How we help faculty and course instructors: Teach your students how to search for information effectively. Create class guides to help your students find appropriate resources for specific classes or assignments. Educate students about plagiarism and the ethical use of information. Teach students how to cite sources correctly in their papers and how to use citation management software such as RefWorks or EndNote. Conduct literature searches in support of your research proposals. Provide research consultations in support of your projects and the theses and dissertations of your students. Set up trials of new databases and other online resources. Advise in submitting your purchase requests for new books and periodicals. Submit proposals for purchases of library materials on your behalf. Guide you in setting up an account in OAKTrust the Texas A&M Repository. Guide you in setting up course reserves for print, electronic, and streaming media content. Additional Resources Find My Librarian Schedule a research consultation Schedule a library class or workshop Support the Libraries AskUs anything at anytime. Chat with Us Call Us Text Us @ 979-256-1091 Email Us About the Libraries Quick Phone & Mailing List Directory | Find my Librarian Employment Diversity Matters Site Map | Site Search Follow Us Facebook Twitter You Tube Instagram howdy.tamu.edu Off-Campus Access Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Texas CREWS Comments Services Status