top of page Skip to Main Content menu homepage Search X Libraries list Archives & Special Collections home Art Library home Ekstrom Library home Kornhauser Health Sciences Library home Law Library home Music Library home University of Louisville Hospital home Accounts list Interlibrary Loan Off-Campus Login Renew Books Blackboard Cardinal Card Email My Print Center ULink Business Ops CardBox CardSmart Cards Career Connection UofL Folio X Search Site Site search Search U of L Libraries site GO Search Catalog homepage Libraries Archives & Special Collections Art Library Ekstrom Library Kornhauser Health Sciences Library Law Library Music Library University of Louisville Hospital Accounts Interlibrary Loan Off-Campus Login Renew Books Blackboard Cardinal Card Email My Print Center ULink Business Ops CardBox CardSmart Cards Career Connection UofL Folio University of Louisville UofL Libraries _University Libraries Privacy Policy Home Site search Search U of L Libraries site search Privacy Policy: Home Details of the website privacy policy. Third Party Analytics Software The University of Louisville Libraries website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google, Inc. (“Google”) to gather and analyze website-use data to better serve our web visitors. Google Analytics uses “cookies”, which are text files placed on your computer, to help the website analyze how users engage and use the site. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) is not personally identifiable and will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the United States. Google will use this information for the purpose of evaluating your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity for website operators and providing other services relating to website activity and internet usage to improve this site. Google may also transfer this information to third parties where required to do so by law, or where such third parties process the information on Google’s behalf. Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google. You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser, however please note that if you do this, you may not be able to use the full functionality of this website. By using this website, you consent to the processing of data about you by Google in the manner and for the purposes set out above. Libraries that use data from Google Analytics and other third-party software providers use such data in the aggregate and do not associate use of any web page or any resource with a particular computer or a particular user. Confidentiality of our visitors is of the utmost importance, and no private information is collected or distributed by the library through its use of Google Analytics. Related Resources Google Analytics Privacy Policies Google Analytics Opt-Out Tool Ask Us ? top of page bottom of page Discover. Create. Succeed. Contacts Addresses Contact Form Frequently Asked Questions for all University Libraries Personnel Directory Site Site Index / Site Map Image Credits Privacy Sharepoint Follow UofL Libraries Facebook Twitter icon by Freepik University Libraries News on WordPress More social media icon Apply for admission to UofL Campus Maps IT HelpDesk Jobs at UofL Last Updated: Jan 15, 2021 2:48 PM Librarian Login