CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Frank Lloyd Wright at Avery Frank Lloyd Wright (1867-1959) has been recognized by the American Institute of Architects as "the greatest American architect of all time" and throughout its distinguished history, Avery Library has comprehensively collected materials by and about Frank Lloyd Wright. From his first published work, to his drawings and papers, to comprehensive coverage of the critical literature devoted to Wright and his legacy, Avery’s library and archival collections offer an unparalleled resource for investigating Wright and his prolific body of works. In 2012, Avery’s existing holdings of Wright related archives was monumentally expanded by the co-acquisition with The Museum of Modern Art of the Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation Archives. Collocated here are guides to Avery’s Wright holdings, together with guides to our research support services. MORE >> Our work on the Wright collections is ongoing. Parts of the Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation Archives are currently open for research while others are in active states of processing. Similarly, items from the collections are being imaged to support research, publication and exhibition projects. We are in the early stages of planning large-scale digitization of our holdings, and hope to present digitized content online in the coming years. Contact us to inquire about how you can help support Avery’s Wright projects. ABOUT COLLECTIONS CONSULTATION SERVICES RESEARCH GUIDE Image credit for all Wright photos and drawings on this website: The Frank Lloyd Wright Foundation Archives (The Museum of Modern Art | Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library, Columbia University, New York). Sidebar Avery Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 300 Avery Hall 1172 Amsterdam Avenue M.C. 0301 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-6199 E-mail: avery@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Avery Library Links About Staff Related Links Avery Friends Avery Store Avery Library Blog Public Outdoor Sculpture at Columbia blog CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.