Skip to main content Connect Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Ask Yale Library My Library Accounts  My Library Accounts  My Account (Orbis) Special Collections Scan and Deliver Borrow Direct Interlibrary Loan Bass Media Equipment Hours Bass 8:30am - 10pm Lewis Walpole 10am - 4:45pm Beinecke Lillian Goldman Law 8am - 6pm Center for British Art 10am - 3pm Marx Science and Social Science 8:30am - 8pm Classics Closed Mathematics 8:30am - 5pm Cushing/Whitney Medical 7:30am - 12am Sterling 8:30am - 8pm Divinity 8:30am - 4:50pm Film Archive 1pm - 5pm Gilmore Music 8:30am - 8pm Manuscripts and Archives 10am - 4:30pm Haas Family Arts 8:30am - 5pm Search this sight Yale Library Go to search Find, Request, and Use  Find  Quicksearch Orbis Articles+ E-Journals Databases Archives at Yale Digital Collections FirstSearch (WorldCat) Request  Borrow Direct Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Course Reserves Scan and Deliver Purchase Request Mail to Address My Library Accounts Use  Borrowing and Circulation Off-Campus Access Special Collections Help and Research Support  Help  Request a research consultation Subject Specialists Personal Librarians Accessibility Services Research Support  Subject Guides Course Guides Copyright Basics Digital Humanities Geographic Information Systems (GIS) StatLab Research Data Management Library Workshops Citation Tools Visit and Study  Visit Information  Special Collections Printers and Scanners Places to Study Carrels and Lockers Media Equipment Room Reservations Borrowing Books Library Access and Use Libraries / Locations  Bass Beinecke Rare Book Center for British Art Classics Cushing/Whitney Medical Divinity East Asia Gilmore Music Haas Family Arts Lewis Walpole Lillian Goldman Law Marx Science and Social Science Mathematics Sterling Memorial Explore Collections  Explore  Collection Development Primary Sources Digital Collections Humanities Collections International Collections EliScholar Fortunoff Video Archive About Us  About  About Us Home Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Library News Events Exhibitions Staff Directory Jobs Library Prizes Library Prizes Through the Bollingen Prize for Poetry and the Windham-Campbell Literature Prizes, Yale Library enables the University to honor and foster extraordinary literary achievement. The library's student prizes recognize and reward outstanding research, book collecting, and graphic design by Yale undergraduate. Undergraduate Student Prizes Diane Kaplan Memorial Prize Awarded to a Yale College senior for an outstanding senior essay based substantially on research materials from any Yale Library special collection. Harvey M. Applebaum '59 Award Awarded to a Yale College senior for an outstanding senior essay based substantially on government information from Yale Library's depository collections. Administered by Marx Science and Social Science Library. Yale Library Map Prize Awarded to a Yale College senior for best use of maps in a senior essay or equivalent project. Administered by Marx Science and Social Science Library. Lohmann Prizes Awarded to current Yale College students in multiple categories to recognize excellence in undergraduate design and printing at Yale. Administered by the University Printer and the Haas Family Arts Library. Van Sinderen Prizes Awarded to current Yale College students for the quality of their book collections. Also encompasses an annual prize for poster design. Administered by the University Secretary and the University Printer. Letters and Literature Bollingen Prize Establishing by Paul Mellon in 1948, the Bollingen Prize for Poetry has shaped contemporary American letters. The prize is awarded every two years for the best volume of poetry published in those years or for a poet's lifetime achievement in their art. The most recent recipient of the prize, in 2021, is Mei-mei Berssenbrugge (pictured). In addition to the distinguished prize winners, the poets, editors, critics, and teachers who have awarded the prize have also helped to shape and define modern American literature. The prize is administered by the Beinecke Library. Bollingen Prize Windham Campbell Prizes First awarded in 2013, the Windham-Campbell Literature Prizes are global English-language awards that call attention to literary achievement and provide financial support for writers to focus on their work independent of financial concerns. The prizes are open to English-language writers at all stages of their careers from anywhere in the world, as long as they have one published book or one professionally produced play to their credit. Writers may be selected for a body of work or for outstanding promise. The prizes are administered by the Beinecke Library. (Photo: Donald Windham and Sandy Campbell in Italy) Windham Campbell Prizes Library News Two seniors receive the 2022 Harvey M. Applebaum ’59 Award Maps and charts enhance, deepen content of award-winning senior essays Image Gallery: Congratulations, Class of 2022! Library exhibitions on view at Sterling and Beinecke over Commencement weekend Kaplan Prize recognizes seniors’ research in Yale Library collections View events View exhibitions Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Site Navigation Find, Request, and Use Help and Research Support Visit and Study Explore Collections About Us Ask Yale Library My Library Accounts Hours Yale University Library P.O. BOX 208240 New Haven, CT 06520-8240 (203) 432-1775 Yale Yale's Libraries Bass Library Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library Center for British Art Library Classics Library Cushing/Whitney Medical Library Divinity Library East Asia Library Gilmore Music Library Haas Family Arts Library Lewis Walpole Library Lillian Goldman Law Library Marx Science and Social Science Library Mathematics Library Sterling Memorial Library Hours, Addresses, and Access Subscribe to our newsletter @yalelibrary Yale Library Instagram AccessibilityDiversity, Equity, and InclusionGivingPrivacy and Data UseContact Our Web Team © 2021 Yale University Library • All Rights Reserved