Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Donate or Transfer Materials Transfer Student Organization Records Students are the heart and soul of Brown University and the records of your student organization are integral to the history of Brown. To ensure that the history of student life is well documented, your student organization should donate their inactive records to the University Archives. Student organizations often produce records and publications that document student life, collective student activity, and the social climate of their times. The records of student organizations are often one of the only sources from which future researchers may come to understand what students at Brown University were like in the past. After you read the FAQ, get started by completing this form. Frequently Asked Questions Do my student organization’s records belong in the University Archives? What are “inactive records”? Does the University Archives want copies of newsletters the group publishes on a regular basis? What types of materials can I transfer to the University Archives? What does the University Archives not collect? How do I transfer my student organization’s records to the University Archives? What happens to my organization’s records in the University Archives? How do I access my student organization’s archival records? Can I see some examples of student organization records collections? University Archives Mission History of Brown University Collections Overview Research Opportunities Subject Guide Online Exhibits Donate or Transfer Materials University Records Management Records Management Record Retention Schedule Collections Policy for University Records University Archives is located in the John Hay Library. For information contact: archives@brown.edu (401) 863-2148 Do my student organization’s records belong in the University Archives? As a leader of a student organization, you may have materials that have a place in the University Archives as a record of your group’s activities on campus. The University Archives is interested in collecting material that relates to the following topics: The history and development of Brown University student organizations The missions and policies of student organizations Significant programs, activities, and events of student organizations Positions and actions of student governments and councils Organized student activism Student involvement in service activities Greek life What are “inactive records”? Inactive records are documents and other materials that you consult once a year or less. Does the University Archives want copies of newsletters the group publishes on a regular basis? Yes! Please send the University Archives two copies of each newsletter or announcement. Student groups should add the University Archives to their mailing lists for newsletters and other announcements: Regular or campus mail: University Archives John Hay Library 20 Prospect Street / Box A Providence, RI 02912 Electronic: archives@brown.edu What types of materials can I transfer to the University Archives? The Brown University Archives collects inactive organizational records. Correspondence and planning files that document programs, activities, and events Promotional materials: flyers, brochures, posters, and meeting and event announcements Meeting minutes, charter records, constitutions, bylaws, and founding documents Organizational histories, self-studies, and reports Newsletters: Please send two copies of each newsletter your group publishes. Add the University Archives to your mailing list [hyperlink to the FAQ item above]! Publications produced by your organization (not copies of general University publications): Please send two copies of each publication. Annual reports Membership lists Audio or video recordings of group events or self-produced recordings Photographs, scrapbooks, clippings, and press releases T-shirts, baseball caps, or other objects What does the University Archives not collect? Active records: Records referred to regularly to conduct the organization’s activities should be retained by the organization. Bank statements Canceled checks University-wide memos or announcements, unless they relate directly to the organization University publications, such as the Brown Alumni Magazine or the Brown Daily Herald, unless they relate directly to the organization Exact duplicate copies of anything Routine correspondence (examples: requests and acknowledgments) Records of routine matters (examples: purchase orders, receipts) Rough drafts of publications, articles, or reports (in most cases) Blank forms, letterhead, or other stationery Books How do I transfer my student organization’s records to the University Archives? Contact the University Archives (archives@brown.edu) to schedule an appointment to transfer your records. In your email, please describe the scope of the records, which organization produced them, and the activities they document. Include any inventories or indexes you have made of the records (we prefer electronic inventories). Archives staff can arrange pickup for large transfers. Staff will return any materials that are deemed to be out of scope for the Archives. Please do not send records to the University Archives without prior notice! What happens to my organization’s records in the University Archives? The University Archives will preserve these records and make them accessible to future generations. The material will be housed in acid-free folders and boxes and stored in proper environmental conditions. How do I access my student organization’s archival records? The John Hay Library welcomes all visitors interested in exploring the rich history of Brown University. Library staff will provide you with reference assistance when you need to access the records after the transfer. Contact the University Archives (archives@brown.edu) two business days in advance of your visit. The materials you request will be placed on reserve at the John Hay Library. You will need to visit the Special Collections Reading Room during open hours. Once the records are donated, they become the property of the Brown University Archives and cannot be removed without permission. Use of these materials is restricted to the Special Collections Reading Room of the John Hay Library. Can I see some examples of student organization records collections? Sure! The links below will take you to the online inventories, called collection guides. Performing arts Religious and spiritual life Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University