Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Locations & Hours Loeb Music Library Explore Collections Using the Library What's Happening History U.S. RISM Office Today: 9am - 5pm See All Hours Highlights Harvard’s home for musical materials. We embrace performance and research in and about the world's musics. Musical scores Composers’ manuscripts Field recordings Sound Studies Lab Open to the general public. Non-HUID holders must register with the Harvard Library Access and Borrowing Office prior to visiting. Full access policy Follow Loeb Music Library You can find us on Facebook and Twitter Contact Music Building 3 Oxford Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions email: muslib@fas.harvard.edu Phone number 617-495-2794 Loeb Music Library Blog Music Research Guide View Staff Directory Connect with Loeb Music Library Less contact information More contact information Explore Collections The library's collections of books, scores, periodicals, and sound and video recordings support research in a wide variety of musical disciplines, including historical musicology, music theory, ethnomusicology, composition, historically informed performance practice. General Collections Collection Books, Scores, and Periodicals Collection Books, Scores, and Periodicals Loeb Music Library's general collection supports the curriculum of the Department of Music as well as scholarship in a broad range of musical disciplines. Collection Recordings Collection Collection Recordings Collection Loeb Music Library's Recordings Collection supports the broad musical interests and activities of the University community. Digital Collection Digital Scores and Libretti Digital Collection Digital Scores and Libretti Loeb Music Library's digital collection of scores and libretti, selected for their rare or unique natures and their popularity as objects of research and teaching. Archive of World Music A sound recordings collection of archival field recordings and commercial recordings of ethnomusicological interest. Collection Archive of World Music Collection Archive of World Music Collections of archival field recordings of musics worldwide, as well as commercial recordings and streaming resources of ethnomusicological interest. Collection Stephen Blum Collection of Music from Iranian Khorāsān Collection Stephen Blum Collection of Music from Iranian Khorāsān Field recordings, many digital, with an emphasis on sung poetry in Persian (Farsi), Khorasani Turkish (Torki), and Kurmanji Kurdish. Collection Eduard Alekseyev Fieldwork Collection of the Musical Culture of Yakutia Collection Eduard Alekseyev Fieldwork Collection of the Musical Culture of Yakutia Digital streaming audio, and video recordings, of traditional religious and ritual cultural expressions of the Sakha (Yakut) people from the Sakha Republic of the Russian Federation. Collection Archive of World Music Collection Archive of World Music Collections of archival field recordings of musics worldwide, as well as commercial recordings and streaming resources of ethnomusicological interest. Collection Stephen Blum Collection of Music from Iranian Khorāsān Collection Stephen Blum Collection of Music from Iranian Khorāsān Field recordings, many digital, with an emphasis on sung poetry in Persian (Farsi), Khorasani Turkish (Torki), and Kurmanji Kurdish. Collection Eduard Alekseyev Fieldwork Collection of the Musical Culture of Yakutia Collection Eduard Alekseyev Fieldwork Collection of the Musical Culture of Yakutia Digital streaming audio, and video recordings, of traditional religious and ritual cultural expressions of the Sakha (Yakut) people from the Sakha Republic of the Russian Federation. Collection James A. Rubin Collection of South Indian Classical Music Collection James A. Rubin Collection of South Indian Classical Music One of the most comprehensive and significant collections of Carnatic music recordings in the world today. Collection Sema Vakf Collection of Turkish Classical Music Collection Sema Vakf Collection of Turkish Classical Music One of the largest collections of Turkish music in the world, devoted to the preservation and perpetuation of classical Turkish music. Collection Rubén Blades Archives Collection Rubén Blades Archives Chronicling the life and work of the internationally prominent and popular musician, actor and politician. Collection Laura Boulton Collection Collection Laura Boulton Collection This collection represents Boulton's field work throughout the Eastern Orthodox world during the 1950s and 1960s. Show LessShow More Isham Memorial Library Isham Memorial Library is a collection of rare original books and scores and facsimiles of musical sources. Collection Isham Memorial Library Collection Isham Memorial Library A quiet room on the second floor of the Loeb Music Library, the Isham Memorial Library houses rare and unique music materials. You are warmly invited to join us for assistance with your research, to see the collections or just to read and study. Collection Liturgical Books in Reproduction Collection Liturgical Books in Reproduction The Isham Memorial Library's collection of liturgical books in reproduction contains copies of important service books. Collection Randy Weston Collection Collection Randy Weston Collection Documenting Weston's prolific career as a jazz artist. Collection Isham Memorial Library Collection Isham Memorial Library A quiet room on the second floor of the Loeb Music Library, the Isham Memorial Library houses rare and unique music materials. You are warmly invited to join us for assistance with your research, to see the collections or just to read and study. Collection Liturgical Books in Reproduction Collection Liturgical Books in Reproduction The Isham Memorial Library's collection of liturgical books in reproduction contains copies of important service books. Collection Randy Weston Collection Collection Randy Weston Collection Documenting Weston's prolific career as a jazz artist. Collection Mozart at Harvard Collection Mozart at Harvard Harvard Library holds a rich collection of first and early editions and manuscript copies of the musical works of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. Collection Sir Georg Solti Archive Collection Sir Georg Solti Archive Conducting scores marked and annotated by Solti, one of the foremost conductors and most influential musicians of the post-war era. Collection Antiquarian, Music Publishers' and Composer Catalogs Collection Antiquarian, Music Publishers' and Composer Catalogs Catalogs from antiquarian book dealers and auction houses offering musical items for sale. Show LessShow More Using the Library INFORMATION FOR RESEARCHERS & VISITORS All eligible visitors to the Harvard libraries age 12 or older are required to present proof of vaccination and booster, along with a photo ID for those age 17 and older, at the Harvard Library Access and Borrowing Office located at Widener Library (HL_accessborrowing@harvard.edu) prior to their scheduled appointment. Masks optional: Although it is not required, please consider wearing a face covering while inside a library. Visitors will be responsible for following all additional COVID-19 safety guidelines as listed on the Harvard Library Visitor Access page. Note that non-HUID holders will need to register for an account with the Harvard Library Access and Borrowing Office prior to accessing the library. Research Music Research Guide Online Scores Research Guide Online Audio and Video Research Guide How To... How To Borrow, Renew and Return Library Materials Connect with the library materials you need to get your work done. How To Learn Remotely for Harvard Students Participating in a Harvard class remotely? Harvard Library can help. How To Teach Remotely with Harvard Library Teaching a class remotely? Harvard Library can help. How To Use Harvard Library's Special Collections and Archives Open to all, these unique materials can take you to places you never expected. Services & Tools Service Cabot Media Studios Everything you need to produce high-quality audio and video recordings. Service Lamont Multimedia Lab Your one-stop shop for media creation and data visualization, including editing and production for audio and video. Service Tech Loan Access to laptops, chargers, 360 degree cameras, VR equipment and more for members of the Harvard community. What's Happening Exhibits 芳音如蘭 Sweet Sounds from Rulan Chao Pian Through Wednesday, Aug 31, 2022 Virtual: Singing the Story of Dhrangadhra Women's Voices in a Rajput Court Through Friday, Jun 30, 2023 Website Eileen Southern and the Music of Black Americans Website Eileen Southern and the Music of Black Americans Dive into the life and work of Eileen Southern, a pioneering scholar who inspired the academic subfield of Black music studies and who was the first African American woman tenured in Harvard’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences. PAST EXHIBITS Eileen Southern's Story: February 7, 2022 - April 11, 2022 Music, First and Last: Scores from the Sir Georg Solti Archive: Virtual, Ongoing I am Proud to Play a Pipe: Bagpipe in the World: January 22, 2020 - March 13, 2020 Tree of Life: Cosmography and Environment in Yakutian Epic: October 22, 2019 - January 20, 2020 Toward the Source: Joyce Mekeel: March 8, 2019 - June 10, 2019 Show LessShow More History The Eda Kuhn Loeb Music Library, named by benefactor Gerald Warburg in memory of his aunt, opened in 1956 as the library of the Harvard Music Department. Three days of festivities marked its opening, including concerts with the Harvard Glee Club, Radcliffe Choral Society, the Bach Society Orchestra, the Harvard Radcliffe Orchestra, and a performance of Monteverdi’s L’Incoronazione di Poppea by the American Opera Company. Housed in the new Music Library wing of the Music Building, the library brought together: 27,725 books and scores from Widener Library, which had initiated its music collection in 1870; more than 8,000 scores and books from the Music Department collection, which began in 1898; and the books and scores from the estate of Richard C. Aldrich, Class of 1885. Aldrich was a well-known music critic and music editor of the New York Times. An avid music collector, Aldrich amassed a significant library of music books and scores, as well as autograph manuscripts now in the Houghton Library. The new library provided students and scholars with more study space. Its two reading rooms were named for Aldrich and Walter R. Spalding, the successor to John Knowles Paine as Chair of the Music Department. Loeb Music Library’s early decades saw rapid growth. By 1968, the collection of books and scores had reached 65,000, and LP records surpassed 6,000. Earlier estimates that the library would be able to accommodate 40 years of collection growth proved to be optimistic. A second addition to the Music Building was necessary. In 1972, the library space was expanded with the construction of the adjacent Fanny Peabody Mason Music Building. That same year, the Isham Memorial Library became part of the Loeb Music Library and took responsibility for rare book collections and research with primary source material. Established in 1939 as part of the Memorial Church, the Isham Memorial Library was named for Ralph Isham, Class of 1889. Isham donated an Aeolian Skinner organ to the church in 1932 and provided funds to buy organ music. With the continuing growth and complexity of library collections and services, the Loeb Music Library became a unit of the Harvard College Library in 1978. The Loeb Music Library added another special collection, the Archive of World Music, in 1992 -- the same year Harvard appointed Kay Kaufman Shelemay its first senior professor of ethnomusicology. The archive was established in 1976 as the private collection of Professor John Ward. It's devoted to the acquisition of archival field recordings of musics worldwide, as well as commercial sound recordings, videos, DVDs, and streaming resources of ethnomusicological interest. A first for Harvard as well as the country occurred in 1989 when Richard French, Class of 1937, endowed a music library chair, the Richard F. French Librarianship in the Eda Kuhn Loeb Music Library, most recently occupied by Dr. Sarah Adams. 1998 marked the opening of the library’s state-of-the-art Audio Preservation Studio, launched with generous gifts from John M. Ward and Altan Ender Güzey. The studio's audio engineers, experienced with audio formats ranging from wax cylinder recordings to surround sound electronic compositions, preserve, reformat and reproduce audio materials from the collections. Now part of Harvard Library's Media Preservation Services, the studio accepts projects from Harvard as well as from outside the university. The library celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2006 as one of the world’s preeminent libraries supporting music research. Its collections have broadened from Western music and historical musicology to reflect the expansion of the Music Department’s programs in music theory, popular music and jazz, and musics of the worlds’ cultures. Amidst all the change, Loeb Music Library’s mission remains the same: to provide its users state-of-the-art resources along with fine historic holdings in a comfortable and inviting research environment. Literature About the Library Adams, Sarah, Virginia Danielson, and Robert J. Dennis, eds. Golden Muse: The Loeb Music Library at 50. Harvard Library Bulletin 18 (2008). Howard, John B. "The Eda Kuhn Loeb Music Library." The Library Quarterly 64 (1994): 163-176. Forbes, Elliott. A Report of Music at Harvard from 1972 to 1990. Cambridge, Mass.: Department of Music, Harvard University , 1993. Wolff, Barbara Mahrenholz. Music Manuscripts at Harvard: A Catalogue of Music Manuscripts from the 14th to the 20th Centuries in the Houghton Library and the Eda Kuhn Loeb Music Library. Cambridge , Mass.: Harvard University Library, 1992. Forbes, Elliot. A History of Music at Harvard to 1972. Cambridge, Mass.: Department of Music, Harvard University, 1988. Ochs, Michael. "Musical Americana in Harvard Libraries: An Exhibition Honoring the Sonneck Society," Harvard Library Bulletin 31 (1984): 408-426. Wood, David A. A Catalogue of Early Printed Music and Books on Music in the Houghton Library and the Eda Kuhn Loeb Music Library. Music in Harvard Libraries. Cambridge, Mass.: Houghton Library of the Harvard College Library and Harvard University Department of Music, 1980. Mary Lou Little. "Eda Kuhn Loeb Music Library," in Report to the Friends of Music. Elliot Forbes, editor. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Department of Music, 1974, p. 16-17. Pirotta, Nino. "The Eda Kuhn Loeb Music Library." Harvard Library Bulletin 12 (1958): 410-17. Davison, Archibald T. "The Isham Memorial Library." Harvard Library Bulletin 6 (1952): 376-80. Merritt, A. Tillman. Fourth Report to the Friends of Art and Music. Cambridge: Harvard University Department of Music, 1947. Apel, Willi. "The Collection of Photographic Reproductions at the Isham Memorial Library." Journal of Renaissance and Baroque Music 1 (1946): 68-73, 144-48, and 235-38. Aldrich, Richard. A Catalogue of Books Relating to Music in the Library of Richard Aldrich. New York: Plimton Press, 1931. Show LessShow More U.S. RISM Office The Répertoire International des Sources Musicales, or RISM, is a worldwide effort to identify and describe sources of music and writings about music from the earliest times through approximately 1850. RISM activities in the United States are overseen and sponsored by the Joint Committee on RISM of the American Musicological Society and the Music Library Association. The U.S. RISM office, currently led by Christina Linklater, came to the Loeb Music Library in 1985. The office collects information from U.S. libraries about music manuscripts, printed music, and libretti from approximately 1580 to 1825. It is the principal information center for queries about RISM data from the United States. RISM's Central Editorial Office, in Frankfurt, Germany, coordinates contributions to RISM Series A/I and Series A/II projects. It also prepares information for both series for publication, and helps coordinate the publication of RISM Series B and C. The Central Editorial Office can provide information on: manuscript sources in all countries participating in the RISM Series A/II music manuscript inventory, addenda to published RISM bibliographies, general questions about the RISM organization. U.S. RISM Office Contact: Tel: 617-496-3359 Fax: 617-496-4636 For further information, please e-mail Christina Linklater, Director, U.S. RISM Office. Show LessShow More Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.