Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Collections The Cockettes Explore the subversive world of midnight films, queer theater, and psychedelic San Francisco. Cockettes member, Johnny, 1971. Photo by Clay Geerdes. Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library On New Year’s Eve 1969, the Cockettes made their glittering debut at the Nocturnal Dream Shows, a late-night movie showcase at the Pagoda Palace Theater in North Beach. Over the next two and a half years, the hippie drag troupe became synonymous with San Francisco counterculture, challenging gender norms and paving the way for the growing gay liberation movement. Poster for "Finchley Boys" and Sylvester, 1971. Design by Todd Trexler. Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library Overview The Cockettes and San Francisco counterculture collection contains over 300 posters, flyers, photographs, ephemera, and other materials documenting the Cockettes and other artists associated with the Nocturnal Dream Shows, including Steven Arnold, Divine, Hibiscus, Sylvester, and Todd Trexler. In some cases, the collection documents their wider careers by highlighting the work leading up to, and beyond, the events at the Palace Theater. The Cockettes The Cockettes were a multiracial drag ensemble composed of members of various and fluid genders and sexual orientations. Their first impromptu performance gave way to campy, drug-fueled midnight musicals typified by outrageous costumes and sexual anarchy (“genderfuck”), with titles like Hell’s Harlots, Pearls over Shanghai, and Tinsel Tarts in a Hot Coma. Today, they are credited with influencing the glitter rock era and raising the profile of drag performance outside the gay community. Nocturnal Dream Shows Steven Arnold started the Midnight Films series in April 1969. The program quickly evolved into the Nocturnal Dream Shows, a heady mix of experimental and vintage films and live shows, featuring monthly performances by the Cockettes. The collection includes a complete run of 30 Midnight Films posters designed by Arnold and graphic artist Todd Trexler. Trexler’s illustrations came to define the Cockettes’ decadent visual style as well as an iconic era of gay pop culture. He also created posters for early gigs by Cockettes breakout star Sylvester and for the West Coast debut of drag icon Divine, which are part of the collection. Also included in the collection are dozens of notices with information about each film that were posted in the Palace Theater lobby before screenings. There are also posters for the Matrix nightclub, The Shed, and the Secret Cinema film series. Arnold’s career as a filmmaker is documented by promotional material for the award-winning film Luminous Procuress (1971) featuring the Cockettes. Art is revolution or it’s nothing. —Steven Arnold Flyer for Sylvester and his Hot Band, 1971. Harvard Theatre Collection, Houghton Library Sylvester Singer-songwriter Sylvester first performed with the Cockettes in Radio Rodeo, a benefit for the Gay People’s Defense Fund. By 1971 he was appearing as a solo artist around San Francisco. Sylvester later became known as the “Queen of Disco” after a string of hit singles such as “You Make Me Feel (Mighty Real),” "Do Ya Wanna Funk," and "Someone Like You." The collection contains posters and handbills for concerts by Sylvester (and Sylvester and his Hot Band). It also includes photographs of Sylvester and newspaper coverage of his death from AIDS in 1988. Divine Divine first took the stage at the Palace Theater during the San Francisco premiere of John Waters’ Mondo Trasho (1969). It was the beginning of a creative working relationship with the Cockettes that culminated in now legendary performances in Divine Saves the World, Journey to the Center of Uranus, and The Heartbreak of Psoriasis. Posters for these shows and other performances by Divine are well represented in the collection. Angels of Light Even before the Cockettes disbanded in 1972, a splinter group led by Cockettes founder Hibiscus (George Edgerly Harris III) formed the Angels of Light Free Theater Collective and carried on his free art ideals. Many flyers for the Angels of Light were printed at Kaliflower commune’s Free Print Shop and appeared in their weekly newsletter of the same name. In addition to the flyers in the collection, the Ludlow-Santo Domingo Library holds an almost complete run of Kaliflower from 1969 to 1972. Accessing These Materials All material is available for use in Houghton Library’s reading room. Contact Houghton Library email: Email Phone number 617-495-2440 Related Collections Collection Harvard Theatre Collection Collection Harvard Theatre Collection Founded in 1901, the Harvard Theatre Collection stands as one of the oldest and largest performing arts collections in the world. Collection Ludlow-Santo Domingo Library Collection Ludlow-Santo Domingo Library The world’s largest private collection of material on altered states of mind. How To Access Materials at Houghton Library Houghton is home to rare books and manuscripts, literary and performing arts archives, and more. Here's how to access these primary source materials. How To Use Harvard Library's Special Collections and Archives Open to all, these unique materials can take you to places you never expected. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.