Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Data and Statistical Services Data and Statistical Services DSS Home Help finding data Help with analysis Data Analysis Guides Computing Resources Need help? Make an Appointment Please limit to 1 appointment for the service per day. Contact Us Firestone Library data@princeton.edu Data and Statistical Services (DSS) provides data and statistical consulting. Experts are available to advise Princeton University student, faculty, and staff on choosing appropriate data, application of quantitative research methods, the interpretation of statistical analyses, data conversion, and data visualization. Subject specialists help choose appropriate data. The statistical packages supported by consultants are R/R Studio and Stata. We provide limited help with SAS and SPSS. We provide statistical and software assistance in quantitative analysis of electronic data as part of independent research projects, such as junior papers, senior theses, term papers, dissertations, and scholarly articles. Please note: Students are welcome to use our online tutorials and computing services. DSS consultants, however, do not provide assistance with homework assignments, problem sets, or take-home exams. DSS Catalog search for Search Quick Links Library Catalog Citing Data GIS: Princeton Digital Map and GIS Center ICPSR: Inter-university Consortium for Political and Social Research`` iPOLL databank (Roper) Sociometrics Social Science Electronic Data Library IPUMS: Integrated Public Use Microdata Series WRDS: Wharton Research Data Service Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top