Skip to main content Contact Us My Accounts Give to UH Libraries University of Houston Libraries Search Borrow Research & Learning Spaces & Technology About Home > Borrow > Course Reserves Course Reserves Textbooks, class readings, and other course-related materials are held by the library via course reserves. For students The list of all items on reserve for a course is found on Blackboard. Any electronic resources on reserve are accessible there. Books and other physical items on reserve are available by request in the location listed on Blackboard. Location short codes: AN = MD Anderson Library AR = Architecture, Design, & Art Library MU = Music Library OP = Health Sciences Library Go the location listed and request the item at the service desk Please have the item title, course number, or the instructor’s name when requesting a reserve item Most reserve items must stay in the library and check out for 3 hours and have $1/hour overdue fines Reserves that may leave the library check out for 2 days, depending on the item, and $3/day overdue fines There are no renewals on reserve items Scans or copies of a reserve item can be made using scanners and photocopiers. Please observe copyright law when making copies or scans of reserves items. For faculty & instructors Faculty can access reserves in Blackboard to manage materials and post electronic items. Log in to Blackboard Select a course Select “Content” from the left menu Select “Tools” > “More Tools” > “Course Reserves” (from the menu in the middle of the page) Select options such as “Link Name, “Color of Name,” and any additional text needed Click “Submit” at the bottom right of the page. BlackBoard will create a Course Reserves link for your page Click the new “Course Reserves” link you just created From the “Choose a Semester” drop-down menu, select the term you want, then click the “Create Course” button The reserves management system (Ares) appears within Blackboard Select “Add Reserve Items” from the “Instructor Course Tools” section to add materials to your course. Faculty may place file uploads or URLs on reserve. For physical materials (or scans of physical materials), request the items to placed on reserve here. You can bring your own materials to the library or have staff pull items off the shelf. Read the full UH Libraries reserve policy for more information. Questions? General reserve questions: MD Anderson Library Service Desk (713) 743-9710 Specific questions on reserves or using the reserves system: Reserves Manager (713) 743-9730 libreserves@uh.edu Reserve Policies For reserve materials located at subject branches, please contact the appropriate location: Music Library (713) 743-3197 Health Sciences Library (713) 743-1910 Architecture and Art Library (713) 743-2340 Borrow Renew Your Checkouts Request a Hold Request a Patron Account Returning Materials Claim a Returned Item Course Reserves Copyright and Fair Use For Reserves Request Materials for Course Reserve Interlibrary Loan Request New ILLiad Lending Account Document Delivery Request a Purchase Request Streaming Media for Course Instruction 4333 University Drive Houston, TX 77204-2000 (713) 743-1050 Privacy Policy Hours Employment Directory Give Us Feedback Contact Us Give to UH Libraries Libraries & Collections Maps & Directions UH Libraries News Site Search Site Map Search Borrow Research & Learning Spaces & Technology About UH Home facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Please ensure Javascript is enabled for purposes of website accessibility