Skip to Main Content It looks like you're using Internet Explorer 11 or older. This website works best with modern browsers such as the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Safari, and Edge. If you continue with this browser, you may see unexpected results. McFarlin Home HOURS ASK US MY LIBRARY ACCOUNT Search the library website Go! ABOUT Events Fines & Fees History of McFarlin Library Hours Maps & Directions Message from the Dean Mission Staff Directory Welcome to the Library Video FIND MATERIALS ★ Search Summon ★ A-Z Database List Classic Catalog Course Reserves List Journal List Research Guides Textbook Reserves List GET HELP Ask a Librarian / Contact Us FAQ Quick Tips Videos Schedule a Virtual Appointment INFORMATION FOR Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate Students International Students Remote Learners Undergraduate Students Visitors LIBRARY SPACES Computer Lab & IT Help Desk Faculty Resource Center Group Study Rooms iClassrooms Writing Center SERVICES Book & Material Pickup Form Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Suggest a Purchase SPECIAL COLLECTIONS STUDENT JOBS COVID-19 GUIDE MORE LIBRARIES HCAR (Gilcrease Museum) MLIC (Law Library) McFarlin Library LibGuides Remote Student Library Resources & Services Home Enter Search Words Search Remote Student Library Resources & Services: Home This guide is an introduction to the resources and services available to remote learning students at McFarlin Library. Home E-books & More Dissertations Journals Research DatabasesToggle Dropdown All Databases Advanced Research Guides Google Scholar Zotero Interlibrary Loan FAQ Need Help? Welcome to McFarlin Library The primary goal of the McFarlin librarians is to assist members of The University of Tulsa community with their library and research needs. This guide is an attempt to bring together the most pertinent information for our remote learning students to help them with their academic pursuits. Students that are able to travel to the TU campus may find information about accessing McFarlin's print materials on our graduate students' guide. Please contact Charles Brooks if there are any other points you'd like to see added to this research guide. Summon Quick Search Search the library using Summon for books, ebooks, journal articles, DVDs, and other materials you need. Research Help Form The library is offering Virtual Research Appointments to help with finding resources, refining your search question, or assistance with any other research questions. Fill out this form to request a video appointment with a librarian. Useful Links Quick tips videos Research guides Remote Access IMPORTANT! The license agreements between McFarlin Library and the private companies that produce our online resources require the library to limit access to current TU students and faculty/staff. This means that when accessing library resources from off campus (including databases, electronic journals and electronic books) you will need to go into the resource either through the library's website, the catalog or one of the LibGuides. When you click on the link for the resource, you will be prompted to enter your TUNetID and password. This verifies that you are a member of the TU community and therefore allowed to use the resource. If you have any problems or questions, please feel free to Ask A Librarian. Helen N. Wallace Writing Center The Helen N. Wallace Writing Center offers one-on-one assistance with writing projects to all University of Tulsa students. The Writing Center is located on the 3rd floor of McFarlin. Call 918-631-3131 or go to the Writing Center website to make an appointment. Electronic Resources Librarian Charles Brooks Email Me Contact: McFarlin Library, The University of Tulsa 2933 E. 6th St. Tulsa, OK 74104-3123 Phone: 918-631-3793 FAX: 918-631-3791 Subjects: Geosciences, Government Information, History, Media Studies Next: E-books & More >> Last Updated: May 6, 2022 3:53 PM URL: https://libraries.utulsa.edu/remote Print Page Login to LibApps Report a problem. About Events Fines & Fees History of McFarlin Library Hours Maps & Directions Message from the Dean Mission Staff Directory Welcome to the Library Video Find Materials ★ Search Summon ★ A-Z Database List Classic Catalog Course Reserves List Journal List Research Guides Textbook Reserves List Get Help Ask a Librarian / Contact Us FAQ Quick Tips Videos Schedule a Virtual Appointment Information For: Alumni Faculty & Staff Graduate Students International Students Remote Learners Undergraduate Students Visitors Library Spaces Computer Lab & IT Help Desk Faculty Resource Center Group Study Rooms iClassrooms Special Collections Writing Center More Libraries HCAR (Gilcrease Museum) MLIC (Law Library) Services Book & Material Pickup Form Interlibrary Loan & Document Delivery Library Instruction Reserves Suggest a Purchase Site Policies Digital Accessibility Policy The University of Tulsa · McFarlin Library · 2933 East 6th Street · Tulsa, OK 74104-3123 · (918) 631-2871 · Facebook Library Staff Login (Libguides) · Print this page