Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box » Libraries Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Want to search for books, journals, and articles instead? Exit Search Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving My Account Make a Gift Home Borrow & Request Interlibrary Loan and Scan & Deliver Course Reserves Summit Purchase Request Borrowing My Account Help Ask a Librarian Accessibility Services Instructor Support Library How-To Research Guides Researcher Support Workshops Requesting online access to library services Meet & Study Here Study Rooms Classrooms Research Rooms Partner Spaces Floor Maps Tech & Print Loanable Equipment Print, Scan, Copy 3D Printers Poster Printing Computers About About Directory History OSULP Leadership Policies Visiting Jobs Strategic Plan Giving MY ACCOUNT Accessibility Services https://library.oregonstate.edu/floormaps/information-desk Accessible Rooms Accessible Formats Photocopy Requests Research Assistance Retrieval of Library Materials Tours and Information Adaptive Technology The administration and staff of the Valley Library endeavor to make the library’s facilities and collection accessible to all members of the OSU community. Persons with special requests not covered below may contact the Information desk at 541-737–7295 or valley.reference@oregonstate.edu. OSU students who need research assistance over an extended period of time may contact Disability Access Services (541-737–4098) in the Kerr Administration Building. Accessible Rooms The library has four study rooms that are ADA accessible; all study rooms are ADA compliant. You may reserve online or at the Circulation counter. Room 1862 has a lightweight table, and chairs on casters. Room 2525 is larger, has chairs on casters, and a whiteboard with the base 34” from the floor. Rooms 5163, and 5563 have a lightweight table, chairs on casters, and a whiteboard with the base 34” from the floor. The library also has two study rooms reservable through Disability Access Services. Room 1559 has a lightweight table, chairs on casters, and a whiteboard 36” from the floor. Room 1562 has a lightweight table, chairs on casters, a height-adjustable table, and a whiteboard 36” from the floor. Accessible Formats OSU's Disability Access Services (DAS) will assist OSU enrolled students who need accessible formats of library publications for course assignments. For additional information or assistance, please contact the DAS. Copy Requests Library copiers are self-service and use OSU ID/convenience cards or cash to make copies. An add value machine is available in the main entrance lobby (2nd floor) to add copy value to your OSU ID/convenience card. Black and white copies are 7¢ a copy with ID card & 10¢ with cash. All machines have enlarging capability. One machine on the 2nd floor is wheelchair-accessible. Scanners are also available on the 2nd, 3rd & 5th floors. You can scan your documents for free and send them to yourself by email or save onto a flashdrive. The Circulation Desk can provide copying assistance during regular business hours. See the Self-Service Copiers page for more information about the drop off service. Contact Disability Access Services for extended assistance. Research Assistance Research assistance is available at the Reference Desk or by appointment with a subject librarian. Retrieval of Library Materials For assistance retrieving materials from the library stacks, please Ask a Librarian, or complete a Scan and Deliver Request. Your request will be filled as quickly as possible. Tours and Information Individualized building tours may be arranged by calling 541-737–4616 or email Disability.Services@oregonstate.edu. For additional library assistance, please call the Information Desk at 541-737–7295. Adaptive Technology The Learning Commons computers on the main (2nd) floor are equipped with audio web browsers and screen reading and magnification software. Wheelchair-accessible terminals are located on every floor of the library. Closed Captioned Videos: A VCR and monitor for viewing closed-captioned videos is available for use. Ask at the Information Desk. Loanable Equipment: Adaptive Technology available for check out includes low vision keyboard, low vision calculator, magnifying lamp, and ergonomic mice. Ask at the Circulation desk on the 2nd floor. Disability Access Services: For additional information about OSU services for students with disabilities, visit OSU's Disability Access Services or call 541-737–4098. Telephones: Public and campus phones on the 2nd floor are wheelchair-accessible. Contact Info 121 The Valley Library Corvallis OR 97331–4501 541-737-3331 Contact Us Services for Persons with Disabilities Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Facebook Flickr Twitter Instagram In The Valley Library Oregon State University Press Special Collections and Archives Research Center Undergrad Research & Writing Studio Graduate Student Commons Tutoring Services Student Multimedia Studio Northwest Art Collection Child Care Digital Projects Oregon Explorer Oregon Digital ScholarsArchive@OSU Digital Publishing Initiatives Atlas of the Pacific Northwest Branches Marilyn Potts Guin Library Cascades Campus Library McDowell Library of Vet Medicine Federal Depository Library Program Make a Gift