Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Service Scan & Deliver Request library materials—from book chapters and periodicals to special collections and ephemera—and we will digitize and send them to your inbox. How it works See something you need in our catalog (HOLLIS) or in a Finding Aid? Ask us for a digital copy. Many things from our collections are already digitized, so if we already have it, we’ll send you a PDF. Things that have not yet been digitized, including special collection items, we can scan and send you a copy. Request within HOLLIS - Use the “scan and deliver” request link on the HOLLIS item record. Eligible items will have the link appear in the "Get It" section of the item record. Scans are delivered via email and remain available for download for 30 days. You can manage your requests and access scans (for 30 days) from your Scan & Deliver account. Request within HOLLIS Special Request - For items in our special collections, use your HOLLIS Special Request account. Click "Copy Request" and fill out the required fields, -OR- Email the library or archive - For special collection items or non-circulating materials, you can also email the holding library or archive. If you’re not sure who holds it, start with Ask a Librarian and we’ll get you to the right place. Screen shot of Scan and Deliver link in HOLLIS Who is eligible Scan & Deliver is available to Harvard students, faculty, fellows, and staff. Non-Harvard affiliates, including researchers and members of the public, may submit requests for materials to be digitized. Imaging Services staff will determine whether the material can be digitized. Fees may be assigned based on the size and complexity of the request. Delivery time General items | 4 business days Scans from HOLLIS are processed by our Access Services department and typically sent to you within two business days of request. Special collection items | 1-4 weeks Special collection items may be scanned by the holding library or archive, or they could be sent to our Digital Imaging department, depending on the complexity of the request. Scanned PDFs are typically sent within one month of receipt. If you need an item expedited, please include that information in your request. Fees For special collection items over 100 pages, we may assess a fee. All digitized materials will be sent to the requestor and will be added to our digital repository for public use. Non-Harvard affiliates will also be charged a digitization fee. Penny Xu of Imaging Services department digitizing rare books from the Harvard-Yenching Library. Bill Comstock What you can get Request materials from our libraries, including special collections and archival material, and we’ll digitize and send them to your inbox. As part of your request, you can ask that title pages, covers, and other identifying information from the book also be included in the scan. Items you can request include: journal articles (two per issue) book chapters (two per book, not exceeding 20% of the work) special collection items Research Consult Request a one-on-one session with a library specialist. Make an Appointment Copyright The purpose of the Scan & Deliver service is to provide library users with a copy of the requested material for personal use. In providing this service, we must also follow relevant copyright laws. We legally can't fulfill requests for: More than two articles or other contribution to a periodical or copyrighted collection More than two chapters or other small part of any other copyrighted work The service can only be used for isolated and unrelated reproduction of a single copy of the same material on separate occasions. It can't be used for the related or concerted reproduction of multiple copies of the same material—whether made at one time or over a period of time, and whether for use by one person or multiple people. If a library questions whether a request complies with these requirements, the request will be sent to a librarian for consultation before a decision is made whether to fill the request. Show LessShow More Special collections But what if the materials you need seemingly can’t be scanned or you’re not sure exactly what you need to see? Don’t worry, we’ve got you covered. From creating PDFs and offering one-on-one virtual sessions with our staff to new technologies and services, our librarians and archivists are committed to making sure you have access to the material you need. Just make a request, and we’ll be in touch with a solution. What to know before placing your request: Students are encouraged to submit requests. Priority is given to materials being used to teach or are part of a dissertation. All high-quality scans will be added to our public repository. Whether you pay for it or not, when we create a high-quality scan (that meets long-term digital preservation standards) of public domain materials outside of copyright restrictions, we add the item to our digital repository so the public can access it too. Special and fragile items take longer. Talk with a librarian about how you want to use the item and they can help guide you through the process. They can also point you towards additional sources and materials. Requests over 100 pages may come with a fee. While we try to waive this for students and faculty, there may be occasions when this is necessary. After you submit your request, we’ll email you an estimated cost for your review. Houghton Library Home to Harvard’s rare books and manuscripts, literary and performing arts archives, and more: a destination for students, scholars, and the public. Houghton Website Harvard University Archives At Harvard’s repository of university and personal archives, find centuries of discoveries, pursuits, and the soul of Harvard, on campus and worldwide Archives Website Schlesinger Library The finest collection of resources for research on the history of women in America, Schlesinger Library has strong holdings in women’s rights and feminism, health and sexuality, work and family life, culinary history and etiquette, and education and the professions. Schlesinger Website Microform Through Scan & Deliver, we can also provide remote access to our microform collections. Place your request through HOLLIS, and we'll determine the best solution for your needs. For single articles or shorter requests, we'll email you a digital copy. For longer requests, or if you need to review multiple reels, we may be able to set up a remote-viewing session. Related Services & Tools Service Get Slides Digitized Request books, photographs, slides or transparencies to be scanned and digitized for teaching and research. Service Reproductions Need a copy? Request reproductions of library materials for research or publication. Service Course Reserves We work with faculty and instructors to help provide students with access to course materials. See All Services & Tools How To Teach Remotely with Harvard Library Teaching a class remotely? Harvard Library can help. How To Learn Remotely for Harvard Students Participating in a Harvard class remotely? Harvard Library can help. How To Get Remote Support for Research & Publishing Working away from your lab or campus office? Harvard Library can help. How To Access Materials at Houghton Library Houghton is home to rare books and manuscripts, literary and performing arts archives, and more. Here's how to access these primary source materials. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.