CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Exhibitions Currently on Display Online: Cornelius vander Starr, his life and work a biographical view of our library's namesake, through photographs from the collection of the Starr Foundation Selections from the Karen A. Smyers Inari Fox Collection (permanent display in the Rare Book and Special Collections Reading Room) By appointment only John D. Roy Chinese Inkstone Collection (semi-permanent display in the Rare Book and Special Collections Reading Room) By appointment only Selections from Starr Library's collection of metal artifacts (semi-permanent display in the Kress Seminar Room) By appointment only Previous Major Exhibitions A body in Fukushima: photographs by William Johnston and Eiko Otake March 11 - June 30, 2016; a guest exhibition in commemoration of the fifth anniversary of the 2011 Tohoku earthquake and tsunami, which caused the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster Tsunoda Ryūsaku: His Life as a Bridge Between Japan and America June 2008 - August 27, 2008; Rare Book and Manuscript Library; This exhibition celebrated the career of Ryūsaku Tsunoda, founder of Japanese Studies and the Japanese Collection at Columbia University, and included material from Waseda University Library and the C.V. Starr East Asian Library. Jewels in Her Crown, Treasures of Columbia University Libraries Special Collections October 8, 2004 - January 28, 2005; Rare Book and Manuscript Library; An exhibition held in honor of Columbia's 250th anniversary celebration, including Treasures from all Columbia's Special Collections, including the C.V. Starr East Asian Library. Godzilla Conquers the Globe: Japanese Movie Monsters in International Film Art February - December 2004; C.V. Starr East Asian Library; Organized in cooperation with the Donald Keene Center of Japanese Culture, and curated by Gregory M. Pflugfelder with the assistance of Yoshiko Fredisdorf, Ria Koopmans-de Bruijn, and Derek Lam. The exhibition was organized in celebration of the 50th anniversary of the original Godzilla, and included material from the private collection of Professor Gregory Pflugfelder and from the C.V. Starr Library collections. Chushingura On Stage and In Print: An Exhibition of Books, Manuscript and Ukiyoe March 24-April 18, 2003; Rare Book and Manuscript Library and C.V. Starr East Asian Library; This exhibition was organized to mark a new cooperative agreement between the university libraries of Waseda and Columbia Universities. The exhibition material came from the Waseda University Library, the Waseda Theatre Museum, and the C. V. Starr East Asian Library at Columbia. Selective Other Previous Exhibitions The Starr Library has display cases in three locations -- the main reading room, the rare book and special collections reading room, and the Kress seminar room -- where we present small exhibitions of various kinds, new acquisitions, donations, treasures from our special collections, displays in conjunction with special events, and more. Below is a selective list of exhibits that have been on display over the years. Xu Bing books (Spring 2013) A display of books of and about the work of the Chinese artist Xu Bing, shown in conjunction with the unveiling on April 30, 2013, of his donated work Reflections While Reading. Miss Miwa Kai (1913-2011): Celebrating Her Life (April 2012) A display of photographs and other memorabilia of Miwa Kai, on the occassion of an event held in commemoration of Miwa Kai, who, for many decades had been the Japanese Librarian in our library. Ted Conant Photographs (March 2012) A selection of photographs from the large archival collection donated by Theodore Conant, cinematographer, who spend time in Korea during and after the Korean war. East Asian Calendars (Winter 2011/12) On display was a combination of actual calendars and books about calendars and the East Asian calendrical systems. The Tharchin Collection (Fall 2011) A display in celebration of the establishment of the Tharchin Collection, dedicated to the memory of Gegen Dorje Tharchin (1890-1976), the founder of the Tibet Mirror Press in Kalimpong, India. Guidelines for Lending Materials for Exhibitions It is the policy of Columbia University Libraries to lend material from its collections to exhibitions in museums, galleries, and other venues that demonstrate a commitment to an educational and scholarly mission. For more information on lending, please see Guidelines for Lending Materials for Exhibitions. Sidebar C.V. Starr East Asian Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 300 Kent Hall 1140 Amsterdam Ave M.C. 3901 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-4318 E-mail: starr@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » C. V. Starr East Asian Library Links About Starr Library Directions Floorplans iPod Library Tours Staff Starr Library Blog Ask a Librarian CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.