CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Oral History Archives at Columbia About the Oral History Archives The Columbia Center for Oral History (CCOH) was founded by historian and journalist Allan Nevins in 1948 and is credited with launching the establishment of oral history archives internationally. At over 10,000 interviews, the Oral History Archives is one of the largest oral history collections in the United States. The Oral History Archives at Columbia is housed at the Rare Book & Manuscript Library in Butler Library and is open to all. Oral History Archives at Columbia For Fall 2020 the RBML reading room will be open on a very limited basis by appointment only beginning September 8, 2020 to current Columbia affiliates (students, faculty and staff) whose individual research requires consulting RBML materials. Unaffiliated visitors are not permitted in Columbia University buildings at this time. For more information, please contact us via email for a reference consultation. We have a number of newly digitized interviews in the Columbia University Libraries' Digital Library Collection, as well as interviews with restrictions about publishing online. OHAC reference staff will be able to inform you about the availability of specific interviews or collections. Columbia Center for Oral History Research The Oral History Archives’ companion center, Columbia Center for Oral History Research is housed at INCITE, where it administers an ambitious research agenda with the goal to record unique life histories, document the central historical events and memories of our times, provide public programming, and to teach and do research across the disciplines. Search Our Portal Search: e.g., mayors, "ed koch" Show results: Oral histories only Oral histories + archival collections Oral History Master of Arts OHMA is the first program of its kind: a one-year interdisciplinary Master of Arts degree training students in oral history method and theory. Our graduates work in museums, historical societies, advocacy organizations, media, the arts, education, human rights, and development. OHMA is also excellent preparation for doctoral work in fields like anthropology, history, journalism, and American Studies or professional degrees like law, education, or social work. Sidebar Oral History Archives Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor East Butler Library 535 West 114th Street New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-5590 E-mail: oralhist@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Oral History Archives Links Rare Book & Manuscript Library home Create/access your Special Researcher Account Oral History FAQ Find oral history interviews Oral history news Current collecting areas Oral history research guide Digital oral history collections Oral history staff CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.