Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Engineering Library Engineering Library Skip to Main Content Section Menu Home Services Group Study Rooms Research Guides Makerspace Maps & GIS Fine Visualization Lab About the Engineering Library Staff Today's Hours 9:00am - 9:00pm For summer, holidays or recess hours, please consult the full schedule. Contact Us Lewis Library englib@princeton.edu (609) 258-3200 Engineering Library in Fine Hall The Engineering Library is now located in a newly renovated space adjacent to the Lewis Library on the A Floor of Fine Hall. Through a physical layout that flows from Lewis into Fine Hall and the resources it offers, the library fosters the perfect environment for collaborative work. Positioned between Lewis Science Library and the Engineering Library is Princeton University Library’s first-ever Makerspace. Engineering Library Access During COVID The Engineering Library is open for use by Princeton University students, faculty, and staff with an activated PUID. The Library remains closed to the public and other users. A very small number of visitor requests will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. To learn more about Princeton University Library’s visitor policy please visit this page. Research consultations with Willow Dressel, Engineering Librarian (wdressel@princeton.edu) are available to students, faculty and staff in-person, or by e-mail, phone or Zoom. Book Pick-Up Service will continue this fall. Faculty, students, and staff with active PUIDs may request books online and pick them up at on-campus Library locations. PU faculty, students, and staff may request in-house digitization of articles or chapters in print book collections.  Wearing face coverings is optional for all patrons, including faculty, students, and staff during Library classroom use. Social distancing is no longer required in Library spaces. For questions about visiting the Engineering Library, please send a message to englib@princeton.edu. Featured Resources Compendex (EI Compendex Plus) INSPEC Applied Science & Technology Source Ultimate Engineering Collection (ProQuest) Amenities Computers Electronic Classroom Group Study Room iPads Printers (B&W) Scanner Study Carrels Wi-Fi Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top