CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee Coeducation at Columbia Select a Columbia History Resource Alma Mater Alumni Registers Booklets, Guides & Campus Viewbooks Coeducation at Columbia Honors & Prizes Media Online Exhibits President Profiles Publications Timelines & Histories University Documents Web Archives Columbia History Resources An Overview The issue of coeducation has had an enormous impact on the development of Columbia University for over a century. King’s College, renamed Columbia College after the American Revolution, was an all-male domain from its founding in 1754 well into the mid-nineteenth century. By the Gilded Age, however, many Americans had come to believe that women as well as men should have access to a thorough education – an education, as University President Frederick A.P. Barnard said, that was more than “ornamental.” [1] How and where women should be schooled was a more divisive matter. By the early 1870s, a vocal group of New York women began petitioning the Board of Trustees to allow women to enroll in the School of the Arts, the then-undergraduate program at Columbia College. They found a great ally in President Barnard, who argued passionately for the expediency and propriety of coeducation at Columbia in a series of President’s Reports. The Board of Trustees, however, believed differently. While most of the Board members did not publicly disapprove of women being educated, they objected to men and women learning in the same classrooms. In 1883, the Board voted against coeducation; President Barnard cast the only dissenting vote. Overview The Struggle Begins Collegiate Course for Women Establishing Barnard Coeducation in Graduate Schools Coed at Last Bibliography Columbia College commencement ceremony held on May 13, 1987. In an attempt to compromise, or perhaps as a reaction to the bad press they received after their rejection of coeducation, the Board agreed to establish a Collegiate Course for Women. If admitted, women could enroll in Columbia courses, but they could not attend the lectures. They sat for the same exams as male students, but the exams were administered offsite. The Collegiate Course proved to be woefully inadequate, prompting the establishment of Barnard College, an all-female college, in 1889. The establishment of Barnard College effectively diffused the issue of coeducation at the undergraduate level for some time. In the meantime, women gradually and quietly entered Columbia’s graduate programs in small numbers. Columbia awarded its first degree to a woman in 1886, when Winifred Edgerton graduated cum laude with a Doctor of Philosophy in Astronomy. By 1942, all of the professional schools admitted women; Columbia College remained the last all-male bastion. By the time the issue of coeducation arose again in the 1970s, the debate had changed dramatically. In the wake of second wave feminism, most Americans came to view male colleges as anachronistic. Columbia College administrators joined the all-male student body in advocating the admission of women to the College. Virtually all the proponents of integrating Columbia College believed that admitting women would raise the number of applications of the College, which would raise standards for admission and restore Columbia to its place as one of the best undergraduate programs in the country. Ironically, it was Barnard College administrators and a large portion of the Barnard student body that objected to coeducation at Columbia. They spoke out passionately against merging Barnard and Columbia Colleges, claiming that women sought out and appreciated the supportive all-female educational environment that Barnard offered. Barnard opponents of coeducation were also wary of Columbia College admitting women, fearing that application numbers would drop precipitously and that Barnard would lose its competitive edge. In the end, the needs of Columbia College won out over Barnard’s objections. After two years of negotiations between Barnard and Columbia, the two colleges reached a coeducational agreement. Barnard would gain more academic and administrative autonomy, and in exchange, Columbia would begin admitting women in the fall of 1983. The first coeducational class graduated from Columbia College on May 12, 1987, represented by a female valedictorian and salutatorian. President Barnard and the nineteenth century feminists who had so passionately advocated for coeducation would have been proud to see their activism finally come to fruition. [1] F.A.P. Barnard, "The Higher Education of Women," 1879, Historical Subject Files, University Archives, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Columbia University in the City of New York. Content written by Julie Golia, PhD 2010 << Columbia History Resources The Struggle Begins: Nineteenth Century Pioneers of Coeducation >> Sidebar Columbia University Archives Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor Butler Library 535 West 114th St. M.C. 1127 New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-3786 E-mail: uarchives@columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Create or Access Your Special Collections Research Account Columbia University Archives About the University Archives Research & Access Use Policies & Services Collection Overview Columbia History Resources University Archives Research Guides Donating Materials Managing University Records Rare Book & Manuscript Library RBML News CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.