<iframe height="0" src="//www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5LBRZK" style="display:none;visibility:hidden" width="0"></iframe> Skip To Content Welcome to the University Libraries Search Quick Search Search Advanced Search | Libraries Catalog | Suggest a purchase Guides Databases Books eJournals Articles Audio Google Scholar More search options Newspapers Theses & Dissertations Video Service Updates All buildings are open. How busy are the libraries? Hours have been temporarily adjusted. Please see the Libraries Hours for up to date information. Study rooms are available. The libraries' bookstacks are open. Masks are strongly encouraged. Welcome to the indispensable hub of discovery, learning and creativity. Across the Libraries View All News Campus Libraries and Hours View All Hours Events Classes Upcoming Events View All Events Upcoming Classes View All Classes Libraries Business Library & Collaboration Commons Cushing Memorial Library & Archives Medical Sciences Library Policy Sciences & Economics Library Sterling C. Evans Library & Annex Cushing Memorial Library & Archives VIEW ALL HOURS Visit Library/ Map Cushing Memorial Library & Archives houses rare books, special collections, manuscripts and the Texas A&M University Archives. The historic Reading Room is open to all for research and studying. Medical Sciences Library VIEW ALL HOURS Visit Library/ Map Located on west campus and at several Texas A&M University Health Science Center campuses, MSL supports the colleges of Agriculture & Life Sciences, Medicine, Nursing, Pharmacy, Veterinary Medicine & Biomedical Sciences, and the Institute of Biotechnology, School of Public Health, and Department of Health & Kinesiology. Policy Sciences & Economics Library VIEW ALL HOURS Visit Library/ Map PSEL supports the George Bush School of Government and Public Services, as well as the political sciences and economics departments, and is located on the first floor of the Annenberg Presidential Conference Center in the George Bush Presidential Complex on west campus. Sterling C. Evans Library & Annex VIEW ALL HOURS Map Evans Library and Annex offers collections and expertise in sciences, engineering, social sciences, humanities, education, and map and GIS services. Evans Library and Annex also has individual and group study spaces, and houses Starbucks, Federal Depository Library and the University Writing Center. Business Library & Collaboration Commons VIEW ALL HOURS Visit Library/ Map BLCC serves the Mays Business School and provides access to a large collection of business research tools. BLCC also offers printing services, open access computers and group and individual study spaces. About the Libraries Texas A&M University Libraries serves both the research and study needs of students and faculty across campus. Online research collections and services include Get it for me and AskUs, thousands of books and journals, subject guides and more. Study space and additional research help can be found in any of the libraries located across campus. Welcome from the Dean Our Vision, Mission & Values Diversity Matters Support the Libraries AskUs anything at anytime. Chat with Us Call Us Text Us @ 979-256-1091 Email Us About the Libraries Quick Phone & Mailing List Directory | Find my Librarian Employment Diversity Matters Site Map | Site Search Follow Us Facebook Twitter You Tube Instagram howdy.tamu.edu Off-Campus Access Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Texas CREWS Comments Services Status × What is Quick Search? The Quick Search tool creates an easy way to search across the Texas A&M University Libraries' popular resources. Search for books, journal articles, newspapers, movies, music, digital collections, and more all in one place. Quick Search allows users the ability to: See a variety of sources, such as books, movies, and articles all in a single results page Limit results in a variety of ways to get exactly what is need, including peer-reviewed journals Search across the Libraries' catalogs (LibCat and MSL), Texas A&M's OAK Trust institutional repository, and hundreds of scholarly databases like JSTOR, Academic Search Complete, and ScienceDirect Quick Search is not intended to be a comprehensive search tool, as it does not include some important databases. Several alternatives are available when searching for materials: Browse the University Libraries' collection of online journals and databases Search LibCat or the MSL catalog to find books, media, and journal Browse OAK Trust for theses and dissertations, special collections, and scholarly materials Visit with your subject librarian for research assistance Quick Search is the University Libraries' deployment of EBSCO Discovery Service. The University Libraries invites users to send us feedback about Quick Search. Close