Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Special Collections Research Center Special Collections Research Center Special Collections Research Center Pages Navigation Special Collections Research Center Collections Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections Preservation and Conservation Services Education Programming Page featured image content Page main body content Located on the 6th floor of Bird Library, the Special Collections Research Center (SCRC) advances scholarship and learning by collecting, preserving and providing access to rare books, manuscripts and other primary source materials. SCRC's collections span time and format, from cuneiform tablets to born digital media, and document the history of Syracuse University and our global society through printed materials, photographs, artworks, audio and moving image recordings, University records, and more. Collection areas include activism and social reform, architecture and design, popular culture, photography, and the history of recorded sound. Access is free and provided by appointment only in our Reading Room. We recommend making your appointment two weeks in advance to ensure that collections are available and four week for audiovisual materials to allow time for conservation and digitization if necessary. SCRC Overview Toggle History Content SCRC was formerly known as the George Arents Research Library and was started as part of the University’s fledgling library in 1870. The first major acquisition of the special collections in 1997 was made possible by a generous donation with the purchase of the library of Leopold von Ranke, the founder of modern historical research technique. Since then, SCRC has continued to expand its collections to represent a plethora of topics and research interests. In 2016, University Archives and the Belfer Audio Archive and Preservation Laboratory merged with SCRC, creating a unified repository and research center for all library collections. Toggle Vision/Mission Content SCRC aspires to be a vibrant research and learning environment for Syracuse University students, faculty, and the wider scholarly community. We provide access to our world-renowned rare and archival collections and expert guidance in their use in order to facilitate personal discovery and the creation of new knowledge. Mission SCRC collects, preserves, and provides access to materials that document the history of Syracuse University and our global society, including rare printed materials, original manuscripts, photographs, artworks, audio and moving image recordings, University records, and more. SCRC staff is dedicated to encouraging and facilitating the use of the collections by: Engaging students, faculty, and the wider scholarly community with our collections through public programs, exhibitions, digital initiatives, and publications Supporting innovative undergraduate and graduate learning by fostering new ideas about the role of special collections in the University's curriculum Prolonging the life of the University's rare and archival holdings for generations of students and scholars by implementing ongoing preservation measures Providing a variety of ways for the University and wider scholarly community to access and explore these collections Right aside items Contact Us: Syracuse University Libraries Special Collections Research Center (SCRC) 222 Waverly Ave Bird Library, Room 600 Syracuse University Syracuse, NY 13244-2010 scrc@syr.edu 315.443.2697 Related Links Finding Aids General SCRC Request FORM SCRC Blog SCRC Exhibitions Search Catalog Visit SCRC Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.