Skip to content Menu Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours, Locations, & Events Ask a Question Now Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search Center For Digital Scholarship Home About People Expertise Projects Instruction Events Studio Projects The Center for Digital Scholarship, and its predecessor the Scholarly Technology Group, have assisted on many digitization and related projects at Brown University during the past few decades. Are you interested in working with us on a digital project? Get in touch! Below is a diagram of what working on a digital project looks like in CDS. Featured Projects The Opening the Archives project is an ambitious undertaking organized by Brown University and the Universidade Estadual de Maringá, Paraná, Brazil to systematically digitize and index tens of thousands of declassified documents in the U.S. government archives related to Brazil from 1960 to 1980. Stolen Relations: Recovering Stories of Indigenous Enslavement in the Americas is a collaborative effort to build a database of enslaved indigenous people throughout time all across the Americas in order to promote greater understanding of the historical circumstances and ongoing trauma of settler colonialism. The Inscriptions of Israel and Palestine project seeks to collect and make accessible all of the previously published inscriptions (and their English translations) from the Persian period through the Islamic conquest (ca. 500 BCE – 640 CE). Digital Publications Initiative Supported by a generous grant from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the Digital Publications Initiative offers faculty members in the humanities and social sciences the opportunity to explore new and innovative approaches to scholarly publishing. Learn more about digital publishing at Brown. Furnace and Fugue brings to life in digital form a multimedia seventeenth-century text, Michael Maier’s alchemical emblem book, Atalanta fugiens, of 1617. The publication consists of an enhanced digital edition of the early modern book, including newly commissioned vocal recordings of its fifty fugues as well as a critical anthology of media-rich interpretative essays. Italian Shadows combines Italian cultural studies with media studies, and develops a history of virtual reality through the examination of eighteenth- and nineteenth-century optical tools used for virtual travel. The project features a series of interactive simulations of analog media, and offers a non-linear reading experience. The Sensory Experience of Monasticism: Saint-Jean-des-Vignes focuses on a French medieval abbey, particularly on aspects of daily life and sensory experience across time. The project combines scholarly and creative writing with 3D creations of the abbey in its various phases (twelfth through seventeenth centuries) and the mapping of soundscapes. Islamic Pasts and Futures: Horizons of Time rethinks the conjunction between Islam and temporality, spanning the centuries and regions where Islam has been a significant presence. Current Digital Scholarship Projects A Mother’s Cry Black Maternal Health Data for Publications HerbUX Inscriptions of Israel/Palestine Inter-American Commission on Human Rights Keeper Project Mass Incarceration Archive Mat-Med in Transit My Body My Choice Nicholas Brown and the Roman Revolution Opening the Archive Providence Mutual Aid RI DEM Brownfields Digital Archive Steering Committee on Slavery and Justice Stolen Relations: Recovering Stories of Indigenous Enslavement in the Americas US Epigraphy Project Completed Digital Scholarship Projects 1968: The Whole World Was Watching Website A & L Tirocchi Dressmakers Project Aravaipa Beyond Carnival Boccaccio’s Decameron Brasiliana Collection Brazil Under Vargas Catskills Institute Clyde Davenport Control and Freedom website Crystal Palace project Data for Publications Educating Change Florentine Renaissance Resources: Online Catasto of 1427 Database Florentine Renaissance Resources: Online Tratte of Office Holders 1282-1532 Fox Point Oral History project Freedom Now! An Archival Project of Tougaloo College and Brown University Garibaldi Panorama: Visualizing the Risorgimento Great Kanto Earthquake of 1923 Latin American Travelogues MonArch: Monastic Archaeology NIH-funded SFHERE Project Online Gazetteer of Sixteenth Century Florence Perry In Japan Pico’s 900 Theses prospect Website Research at Brown Romanian Love Charms Social and Intellectual Context of Luise K. Gottsched The Rand Lab Data Archive Theater that Was Rome Underground Rhode Island Writing Vietnam Website Digitized Special Collections Projects African American Sheet Music Alcohol, Temperance & Prohibition Anne S. K. Brown Military Collection (Prints, Drawings and Watercolors) Archives of the Ladd Observatory Brown Alumnae Oral Histories Brown Daily Herald Digital Archive Brown Library Olio Brown Portraits Collection Carriers’ Addresses Chronicles of Brunonia Cultural Correspondence Flatland Gorham Collection Harris Broadsides Illustrated Quixote Images of Brown Invested in Community James Koetting Ghana Field Recordings Collection Katrina Project Digital Archive Lincoln Broadsides Lincoln Graphics Lincoln Manuscripts Lincoln Objects Lincoln Sheet Music Lincolniana at Brown Minassian Collection of Persian, Mughal, and Indian Miniature Paintings Minassian Collection of Qur’anic Manuscripts Motif Magazine Napoleonic Satires Paris, Capital of the 19th Century Pembroke Record Digital Archive Perry In Japan Radical America RIAMCO: Rhode Island Archival & Manuscript Collections Online Sanborn Maps for the State of Rhode Island Views and Re-views: Soviet Political Posters and Cartoons World War I Sheet Music Yiddish Sheet Music About the Library General Information Library Organization Chart Friends of the Library Library Staff Giving Blogs Jobs Resources for: Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff Materials by Type Books and ebooks Journals and Articles Newspapers Video and Audio Theses and Dissertations Special Collections and Exhibits Entertainment DVDs Computers and Technology Contact, feedback, and general information A-Z list about the Library Contact / Feedback libweb@brown.edu Brown University Library 10 Prospect Street/Box A Providence, RI 02912 USA