Skip to main content Chat With Us Chat With Us Chat With Us Chat With Us Boston College Libraries Mission Ask Us My Accounts Toggle navigation Close navigation Value Beyond Discovery Find Books, Media, and more Catalog Simple Search Catalog Advanced Search Popular Books & DVDs Course Reserves Data/GIS/Statistics Articles Databases Journals Article search Find by Citation Outside BC WorldCat Search libraries worldwide HathiTrust Digitized items from libraries around the world Google Scholar Other ProQuest Theses & Dissertations Collections eScholarship@BC Digital Collections Find More Services Services Borrowing Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Library Instruction Media Services Digital Scholarship Publishing Support Accessibility Dataverse Services for... Undergraduates Graduate Students Faculty & Staff Alumni, Retirees, & Guests Technology Software in the libraries Tech and Equipment Loans Printers & Scanners Technology Help Spaces Reserve a Study Room Study Spaces Exhibition Spaces Digital Studio More Library Services Get Help Ask A Librarian Chat With Us Chat with us Chat with us Chat with us Ask a question 24/7 and a librarian from BC or another institution will help you. Email Us Email us Send us a question and we'll get back to you within a day. Meet With Us Meet with us Request an appointment in person or online with a subject librarian. Visit Us Visit us Visit our library locations. Research Help Research Guides Course Guides How to... (General Guides) Core Skills video tutorials Subject Librarians FAQ All Help About Libraries O'Neill Library O'Neill Library Main library Reference: 617-552-4472 Bapst Library Bapst Library Art and architecture Reference: 617-552-3200 Burns Library Burns Library Special collections Reference: 617-552-4861 Educational Resource Center Educational Resource Center Curriculum collection Reference: 617-552-4920 Law Library Law Library Legal research & scholarship Reference: 617-552-4434 Social Work Library Social Work Library Social services collection Reference: 617-552-0109 Theology & Ministry Library Theology & Ministry Library Theology & biblical studies Reference: 617-552-6553 O'Connor Library O'Connor Library Earth & environmental sciences Contact Enid Karr Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies Institute for Advanced Jesuit Studies Jesuit studies collection Reference: 617-552-2568 About us Hours Contact Us Getting Here Policies Gifts Mission Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Employment Advertise Your Event Virtual Tours More About the Libraries Hours Library hours for Today's Library Hours Library Hours O'Neill Library Bapst Library Burns Library Educational Resource Center Law Library Social Work Library Theology & Ministry Library (*) The O'Neill Library first floor will remain open for use until 2:00 am. See all hours My Accounts Library catalog account Renew books; check due dates; save records Interlibrary Loan account Request books, articles, and more from other libraries; review due dates Burns Library account Register to research, schedule visits, and order copies at Burns Library OverDrive account Borrow and renew popular ebooks and audiobooks More about Accounts Exhibits Spaces Libraries Library Exhibits Exhibits Spaces Exhibits Spaces Exhibits in the Boston College University Libraries will advance discovery of library resources by highlighting connections between our collections and academic and community life at BC. The Libraries welcome partnerships with the Boston College community and other institutions, groups, or individuals to create thoughtful and attractive exhibits. Successful exhibit proposals will be in strong alignment with the mission and collections of the Libraries. Gallery Spaces Bapst Library Burns Library Theology & Ministry Library O'Neill Level One Gallery O'Neill Level Three Gallery O'Neill Reading Room O'Neill Reading Room Back Wall O'Neill Level 3 Lobby History Dept, Stokes Hall Tip O'Neill Exhibit Boston College Libraries Digital Exhibits Bapst Library, Gargan Hall Exhibit Cases Description of space: One exhibit case in Gargan Hall. Policy for use of space: Exhibit space is used to highlight books in the collection and selected items from the University Archives. Contact: Laurie Mayville Bapst Library, Outside Gargan Hall Exhibit Cases Description of space: Two cases found outside Gargan Hall. Policy for use of space: Exhibit space is used to highlight books in the collection and selected items from the University Archives. Contact: Katherine Fox Burns Library Description of space: Burns wall cases (4 cases). Policy for use of space: Exhibits highlight collections in the Burns Library. Contact: Katherine Fox Educational Resource Center, Campion Hall G13 Description of space: One wall with bulletin board and two bookcases (approximately 11 linear feet) Policy for use of space: This space is designated to feature educational and curriculum materials. Student work may be exhibited with approval of ERC exhibit committee. Contact: Tiffeni Fontno O’Neill Library, 3rd floor Lobby Description of space: One horizontal case Policy of use for the main exhibit case: The space is designated to materials relating to the Lowell Humanities Series. Contact: Stephen Sturgeon O’Neill Library, Level One Gallery, 1st floor Description of space: The galley is an open space of 770 sq. ft., with wall space of 385 sq. ft. for displaying flatwork only. Policy for use of space: Since 2009 Level One Gallery in O'Neill Library has been a space for the BC Community to display their creative work. The Boston College Libraries fully support the Arts here at the university and the gallery encourages the creative spirit of Boston College. Contact: Scott Britton O’Neill Library: Level Three Gallery, 3rd floor Description of space: Gallery space for hanging art, 11’ tall with at total length of approximately 75’. The entire length includes 3 wall bays that are 24’ each with 2 pilasters bump outs at one third intervals. There is existing library furniture in front of the wall that comes to about 3 feet of the lower portion of the wall. Policy for use of space: Level Three Gallery in O'Neill Library is a space for the BC faculty and alumni to display their creative work. Work should support the educational purpose and curricula of the university. Contact: Nina Bogdanovsky O’Neill Reading Room, 3rd floor Description of space: There are three horizontal cases in the O’Neill Reading Room. Policy of use of space: Exhibits in the O’Neill Reading Room feature special collections from the John J. Burns Library. Contact: Katherine Fox O’Neill Reading Room, Back Wall Description of space: There are three horizontal cases against the Back Wall of the O’Neill Reading Room. Policy of use of space: Policy of use for the main exhibit case: Exhibits in O’Neill are part of the Library’s educational outreach and are specifically created to stimulate interest in, and encourage further study of, the topics showcased in the displays. One case is devoted to campus events, and the remaining are open to exhibits which highlight collections, spotlight interesting research being done on campus, explore current and/or historically important events, or demonstrate cultural trends and their significance for the BC community. Contact: Scott Britton Social Work Library Description of space: 5'x4' magnetic whiteboard and a five-feet long credenza on top of which to display items. Policy for use of space: Display themes need to be relevant to social work matters and consistent with the missions and values of BC and the BC School of Social Work. Contact: Hannah Ha Theology & Ministry Library Atrium Gallery Description of space: Approximately 90 linear feet of space along three walls fitted with picture rail on the lower level of the Theology & Ministry Library. Policy for use of space: Exhibits are sought which are consistent with the Jesuit mission of Boston College and, more specifically, with the mission and values of the School of Theology & Ministry Contact: Steve Dalton Footer Libraries footer Boston College Libraries 140 Commonwealth Ave Chestnut Hill, MA 02467 O'Neill Circulation: 617-552-8038 O'Neill Reference: 617-552-4472 Administration: 617-552-4470 Library AccessibilityPrivacy Connect With Us Blogs Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Quick Links Study Rooms Ask a Librarian Interlibrary Loan WorldCat Course Reserves Citing Sources FAQs Contact Us Hours Today's Library Hours Library Hours O'Neill Library Bapst Library Burns Library Educational Resource Center Law Library Social Work Library Theology & Ministry Library (*) The O'Neill Library first floor will remain open for use until 2:00 am. Boston College footer Accessibility Emergency Maps Directories Contact Copyright © 2018 Trustees of Boston College