CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee RBML's Digital Collections View all of the Libraries' Digital Collections & Exhibitions Columbia University Libraries digitizes its rare and unique collections for the purposes of preservation, access, and online exhibition. Most unbound materials, including photographs, posters, drawings, objects, ephemera, and manuscripts, as well as archival “born” digital files can be found via the Digital Library Collections (DLC) website. Bound and printed materials, notably rare books, may be accessed via CLIO, the Columbia Libraries online catalog, and the Internet Archive. Online Exhibitions provide a highly curated means of accessing selected digitized objects. Digital Collections Carnegie Corporation of New York Digital Archive This website provides a portal into the Corporation’s philanthropy from the 1870s to the 21st century. The reach is increasingly global, from early twentieth century gifts in support of library construction to more recent interviews relating to the Corporation's Russia Initiative. Scholars studying the history of philanthropy, capital, education, race, foreign relations, and a range of other topics will find that the website contains valuable primary resource material. Frederick Fried Coney Island collection The Columbia University Libraries have digitized a collection of around 500 photographs capturing Coney Island’s golden age as America’s preeminent working-class leisure destination. The photographs in this digital collection come from the Frederick Fried Coney Island collection, 1847-2001. The images depict bathing beauties, sideshow performers, exotic animals, thrilling amusement rides, and opulent pleasure palaces, while also containing rich details about transit networks, social and cultural life, and New York City history. Hubert H. Harrison papers Harlem's first great soapbox orator, Hubert H. Harrison was a brilliant and influential writer, educator, and movement builder during the early decades of the 20th century. The collection is composed of the personal papers--correspondence, manuscripts, documents, newspaper clippings, diaries, scrapbooks, memorabilia, photographs and books--of Hubert H. Harrison. The papers range from his early years in the United States to his death in 1927. Albert Field Collection of Playing Cards The Albert Field Collection of Playing Cards contains more than 6300 individual decks of playing cards as well as extensive ephemera and a library of reference books. The decks, ranging from the 16th through the 20th centuries, and across the world, are a rich vein of primary source material in popular imagery, costume, advertising, propaganda, as well as elite culture. Ford IFP Archive The archives cover the issues of social justice, community development, and access to higher education, and include paper and digital documentation and audiovisual materials on the more than 4,300 IFP Fellows as well as comprehensive planning and administrative files of the program. John Jay Papers The Papers of John Jay is an image database and indexing tool comprising some 13,000 documents (more than 30,000 page images) scanned chiefly from photocopies of original documents. Most of the source material was assembled by Columbia University's John Jay publication project staff during the 1960s and 1970s under the direction of the late Professor Richard B. Morris. Lehman Special Correspondence Files A searchable database of selected correspondence to and from New York Governor and U.S. Senator Herbert H. Lehman (1878-1963). Columbia University Publications Columbia College Today Thanks to a gift from the board of the Columbia University Club Foundation, CCT and the Columbia University Libraries have recently digitized the back issues of this Columbia College alumni magazine from 1954 to 2016. These are now available on the Internet Archive. The issues have been indexed so you can easily search for articles, features and alumni news or just browse through the individual issues. Columbia Spectator Digital Archive This online resource is the result of a partnership between the Spectator and Columbia University Libraries, and funded jointly by the Libraries and through generous gifts from Spectator alumni and friends, especially members of the class of 1958. You can now search issues published from 1877 to 2012. Whenever possible pages were scanned from original paper copies and digitized using state of the art technology that provides full-page, searchable reproductions of articles, photographs, and advertisements. For articles published more recently, please search the main Spectator website. Columbia Library Columns, 1951-1997 Columbia Library Columns was published from 1951 to 1997. Over the years contributors included faculty, University administrators, writers, historians and collectors, as well as Columbia librarians. Articles focused on individual collections, special acquisitions, literary topics and issues relating to the growth of Columbia's libraries and special collections generally. Featured Online Exhibitions In Service to the New Nation: The Life & Legacy of John Jay As part of the broader events celebrating the near completion of the seven volumes of The Selected Papers of John Jay publication project based at Columbia University, this exhibit aims to shed light on the different aspects of Jay's personal, familial, and public life and discuss his many civic accomplishments in shaping America's governance, diplomacy, and judiciary. In Service to the New Nation: The Life & Legacy of John Jay draws on the correspondence, public papers, printed items, portraits, and drawings located in the various collections and libraries at Columbia University. The items presented include such varied materials as the transcribed Laws of King’s College, Jay's draft of The Federalist 5, period sheet music of Governor Jay's March, and a chart of New York City's harbor defences. Unless otherwise noted, the materials presented herein are taken from the John Jay Papers, 1668-1862 Collection and Columbia's Rare Book & Manuscript Library. 1968: The Global Revolutions From Hanoi to Harlem, Czechoslovakia to China, Memphis to Paris, the yearlong crises of 1968 rocked world communities with an epoch-making series of political explosions. In late April 1968, “The Revolution” came to campus at Columbia University. “1968: The Global Revolutions” traces the connections between those worldwide upheavals, linking them together to demonstrate how many local and national movements looked to peers and comrades in other countries, campuses, and communities. The exhibition was timed to coincide with the fiftieth anniversary of those events. It appeared in the spring of 2018 in the Kempner Gallery of the Rare Book & Manuscript Library at Columbia University. Memory and Material in Early Modern England Memory and Material in Early Modern England seeks to continue a conversation, building on recent work in early modern studies, about the many ways in which early modern literature and culture imagine and articulate the relationship between memory and materiality. This accompanying exhibit surveys several ways in which early modern texts and materiality intersected, from mnemonic texts that took advantage of developing print technologies to spread the techniques of the "Art of Memory," to writing tables that enabled early modern thinkers to record and erase thoughts, functioning as a material memory aid. Drawing on the RBML's broad early modern collections, it provides a glimpse into the rich material world of memory in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. Roar, Lion, Roar: A Celebration of Columbia Football Focusing on players, coaches, playing fields, and the games won and lost, this exhibition traces the arc of Columbia’s football program from its inception in 1870 to the present day. As one of the oldest college programs in the country, Columbia Football has a rich and fascinating history which the University Archives is delighted to share and celebrate through this display of historical materials from our collection. This online exhibition is based on a physical exhibition of the same name which was on display in the Rare Book and Manuscript Library from August 26 to December 20, 2019. Complete list of RBML Online Exhibitions. Web Archiving The Columbia University Libraries (CUL) have been capturing websites via the Archive-It service since June 2010. The CUL's commitment to integrating web archiving into ongoing collection development and preservation best practice is informed by collaboration with other research libraries and the broader web archiving community. The RBML has selected to capture the websites from organizations or individuals whose papers or records are held in our physical archives. For example, the RBML preserve the sites related to the Ford Foundation International Fellowship Program (IFP), those related to the Carnegie Collections, as well as authors such as Erica Jong and Amiri Baraka. Visit the RBML Archive-It collection for the roster of websites. Search Tools The Cuneiform Digital Library Initiative (CDLI) is an international digital library project aimed at putting text and images of cuneiform tablets online. The RBML's collection, searchable here, is made up of more than 500 cuneiform texts, diverse in contents, mostly from the Ur III period. Digital Scriptorium is a consortium of libraries and museums, including the RBML and other Columbia University libraries, committed to free online access to their collections of pre-modern manuscripts. All the medieval and Renaissance manuscript holdings of the RBML have short descriptions and images on Digital Scriptorium. In 1995 the Advanced Papyrological Information System was started to create a collections-based repository of information about and images of papyrological materials (e.g., papyri, ostraca, wooden tablets, etc.). Now with Papyri.info, it is possible to view descriptions and images of items in the RBML collection. Sidebar Rare Book & Manuscript Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor East Butler Library 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-5590 E-mail: rbml@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Create or Access Your Special Collections Research Account Rare Book & Manuscript Library About RBML Find Materials Plan Your Visit Orders & Services Exhibitions & Programs Collection Areas Digital Collections What We Collect Staff News Sign up to receive updates on RBML Events CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.