CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee DIGITIZATION & COPYING SERVICES The Preservation & Digital Conversion Division provides patrons with reproductions of items owned by the Columbia University Libraries collections. Reproductions are intended for personal or scholarly use, and patrons are responsible for all copyright and permissions matters. Publication and Digital Reproduction for Research and Scholarly Purposes Services include digital photography and flatbed scanning, electronic books, microfilm duplication, microfilm scanning, and audio reformatting. Policies Regarding Patron Orders and Copyright Policy on the Size of Digitization Orders for Patrons Publication and Digital Reproduction for Commercial and Other Purposes, and for Large-scale Initiatives File Format Specifications for Patron Orders Please visit our Copyright Advisory Office for Information about Copyright and how it Pertains to Education, Research and Scholarship Link for information about Fair Use Notice: WARNING CONCERNING COPYRIGHT RESTRICTIONS The copyright law of the United States (title 17, United States Code) governs the making of photocopies or other reproductions of copyrighted materials. Under certain conditions specified in the law, libraries and archives are authorized to furnish a photocopy or other reproduction. One of these specified conditions is that the photocopy or reproduction is not to be “used for any purpose other than private study, scholarship, or research.” If a user makes a request for, or later uses, a photocopy or reproduction for purposes in excess of “fair use,” that user may be liable for copyright infringement. This institution reserves the right to refuse to accept a copying order if, in its judgment, fulfillment of the order would involve violation of copyright law. For Ordering Instructions and Order Forms, please visit this page Link for self service printing and scanning. Orders and questions should be addressed to: Preservation Reformatting Department 101 Butler Library 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 E-mail: prd-orders@library.columbia.edu Telephone: (212) 854-1332 All reproductions are prepared to order and cannot be returned for credit. Click here for more information about the Preservation & Digital Conversion Division Sidebar Columbia University Libraries Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 Map: Libraries Map » Access & Borrowing Links Library Information Office Accessing the Libraries Borrowing & Renewing Materials Library Services Links Request Items Services & Tools Visitors Course Reserves Study Spaces Disability Services Preservation & Digital Conversion Division Libraries Website Search CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.