Skip to main content University of Nebraska–Lincoln Visit Visit Visit the Libraries Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply Apply to Work in the Libraries Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give Give to Support the Libraries Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Log In Search Search Form Search Submit Close Libraries Menu Search Log In Using the Libraries Hours of Operation Library & ILL Account Logins Subject Specialists Tutorials & How-to Videos ASKus & FAQs Find Items by Location & Call Number Adele Hall Learning Commons Dinsdale Family Learning Commons Our Libraries Borrowing from Libraries Course Reserves Places to Study Connect off Campus Locker Rentals Resources & Collections Search Our Catalogs Databases Journals Archives & Special Collections Digital Commons Image & Multimedia Collections Center for Digital Research in the Humanities Government Information & Documents Library Depository Retrieval Facility (LDRF) New Resources & Trials Researcher Support Research 101: How-tos Grants & Funding Sources Data Management Publication & Copyright Writing, Citations & Preventing Plagiarism Request a Research Consultation Teaching & Learning Teaching Partnerships & Collaborations Virtual Learning Tutorials Subject & Course Guides High School Program Course Reserves Open Educational Resources Technology, Equipment & Software Equipment For Checkout Software Laptop Checkout Media Services Huskertech Connect to Wifi & Campus Services Print, Copy & Scan About Libraries Homepage University Libraries 2020-2022 Strategic Plan Faculty & Staff Directory News, Events & Exhibits Building Maps Diversity & Inclusive Excellence Support the Libraries Employment Staff Development Departmental Organizational Charts Services for People with Disabilities Policies & Emergency Procedures Library Staff Intranet & Resources Visit Visit the Libraries Visit the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Apply Apply to Work in the Libraries Apply to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Give Give to Support the Libraries Give to the University of Nebraska–Lincoln Face coverings encouraged indoors Latest Updates Nebraska Libraries Libraries Quick Search All UNL Libraries Catalog Journals Databases Catalog How-Tos Advanced Search | Search all Big Ten Library Catalogs | Search WorldCat Quick Search - All: Results include articles, books, journals, and multimedia items, including items held by other NU Libraries that can be borrowed using Interlibrary Loan (ILL). For help with searching, please see Search Tips & Videos. What's the difference between a catalog search (All, UNL Libraries Catalog), journals, and databases? Quick Search - UNL Libraries Catalog: Results display journals, books, and multimedia items held by UNL. For help with searching, please see Search Tips & Videos. Quick Search - Journals: Results display specific online or print journals by title, including newspapers, magazines, and trade publications held by the UNL Libraries. You can also use Browzine to explore UNL’s online journals in various subject areas, browse issue tables of contents, and create personal collections of titles and articles. Quick Search - Databases: Find a database by name (e.g. Academic Search Premier, Google Scholar, HathiTrust etc.) or subject (e.g. agriculture). View More: Browse our A-Z listing of databases | Discover new resources and trials Databases can be searched for articles and other materials that may not be covered by the other Quick Search types. Learn more about database search results. Finding Articles & Books Using Quick Search 3:16 Finding Books & eBooks in the Library Catalog 4:09 Searching the Library Catalog by Topic 3:06 Finding a Journal Article from a Citation View More Catalog Videos & Tutorials | View all Libraries How-to Videos & Tutorials Libraries supports the journey towards anti-racism and racial equity. Our Commitment to Action Library & Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Logins ASKus & FAQs Community User Information Connect From Off-Campus Archives & Special Collections Discover manuscripts, university records, and rare book collections through Archives & Special Collections. Collaborative Digital Projects Center for Digital Research in the Humanities (CDRH) Data Repository Digital Commons Image & Multimedia Collections Government Documents Visit Government Documents for Federal Depository Library Program items in the Libraries. Find Items By Location & Call Number Schedule A Research Or Project Consult Today's Hours View Additional Hours for UNL Libraries View and Reserve Study Rooms Library Guides By Subject & Course TUTORIALS AND HOW-TO VIDEOS Checkout & Returns Welcome to Libraries View all of our News, Events & Exhibits Love Library cupola restoration begins May 16. Read more about the restoration. UnKissed Kisses Exhibit: Fall 2021 - Spring 2022; Lower Level & Second Floor of Love Library. View the Online Exhibit. Subscribe to the Libraries Buzz at: go.unl.edu/libraries-buzz Media Checkout View FAQs & Connect With A Librarian Reserves WEPA PrintIT Support the Libraries Join the Libraries on a journey to meet the evolving needs of the University’s students, faculty and staff with updated spaces, services, collections, and technology. Learn about recent and upcoming projects in the Libraries. Join our email list to receive our newsletter or donate to support the Libraries. University Libraries Email List Join the Libraries Email List NU Foundation Donate to Support the Libraries Contact Info location icon318 Love Library (13th & R) P.O. Box 884100 University of Nebraska–Lincoln Lincoln, NE 68588-4100 phone icon402-472-9568 ask-a-question@unl.edu map iconParking Maps clock icon Hours of Operation Related Links Global Experiences Office Explore Center Foundation Center for Grant Seekers Huskertech Help Center ITS Student Resources University of Nebraska Foundation Writing Center Big Ten Academic Alliance Campus Links Directory Employment Events Libraries Maps News Office of the Chancellor Report an Incident Policies & Reports Accessibility Statement Emergency Planning and Preparedness Institutional Equity and Compliance Notice of Nondiscrimination Privacy Policy Security and Fire Safety Report Student Information Disclosures UNL web framework and quality assurance provided by the Web Developer Network · QA Test University of Nebraska–Lincoln Established 1869 · Copyright 2022 Some parts of this site work best with JavaScript enabled.