Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search MUSEUM OF COMPARATIVE ZOOLOGY | HARVARD.EDU HOME Services Circulation Reference Interlibrary Loans Special Collections and Archives Other Services Scholarly Resources Digital Resources E-journals MCZ Reading List New Books New Books Gallery Latest Journals Digital Collections Online Special Collections Burkhardt Collection Burkhardt Scientific Drawings Thayer Expedition Papers Thomas Barbour Travel Images Alexander Agassiz's Expedition and other images Contributions to the BHL Flickr Gallery William Brewster Papers About the Library Directions to the Library Library Mission Collaborations Library Staff History of the Library The Library Turns 150! Ernst Mayr Biography MCB Library Exchange Program EML Blog HOME / EML BLOG / James Henry Blake (1845-1941) September 21, 2020 By Robert Young, Special Collections Librarian Best known as the Hassler Expedition’s young zoological artist from Provincetown, Blake entered business in early life with his stepfather before deciding to enroll at Harvard’s Lawrence Scientific School in 1864 to study natural history. Blake was hired as a Museum of Comparative Zoology student assistant three years later to help organize the Thayer Expedition collections, sorting the multitude of laboratory jars of Brazilian fishes, and was in fact paid out of the funds supplied by Nathaniel Thayer. In 1868, he was working in the MCZ Conchology Department, drawing the characteristic features of the soft parts of fresh-water mollusks. By 1871 Blake, who married Lucinda Smith Critchett that summer, had begun arranging the mollusk collections when he was asked to join the “Deep-Sea Dredging Expedition,” the initial name of the Hassler trek, chiefly to draw specimens. Blake also supervised the fishing operations, with the expedition taking home about 30,000 fish specimens. Blake’s 152-page scrapbook, one of the Ernst Mayr Library’s most prized holdings, is filled with clippings and manuscript leaves chronicling details of the Hassler Expedition. In later years, Blake was very protective of the history of the voyage on which his career had essentially begun and on occasion mailed off letters of correction when newspaper stories mangled its facts. In September 1872, after the Hassler party returned to Cambridge overland from San Francisco, Blake resumed his duties systematically organizing the MCZ’s “alcoholic mollusca.” Three years later, Thayer’s funding for Blake’s salary would run out, and he left the MCZ. With nine years of training at the MCZ, Blake had no difficulty resuming his career outside of Harvard, serving as artist for the Vineyard Sound Survey of the U.S. Fish Commission, the U.S. Geological Survey, and the Mississippi Geological Survey. In addition to illustrating many natural history publications, such as his drawings of fish collected during the 1891 Albatross Expedition to the Pacific in the MCZ Memoirs (v. 24, 1899) and his West Indies echinoderm drawings in the Carnegie Institution of Washington Publication (no. 281, 1919), he gave lectures throughout the country and helped found the Boston Malacological Club. Blake never lost his affection for the MCZ, to which he bequeathed much of his artwork and personal collections, including numerous photographs, drawings, clippings and books about whales--his lifelong passion. Passing away in 1941 at age ninety-six in Somerville (at 81 College Avenue, the home of his son Dr. Allen Hanson Blake, two blocks from the historic West Somerville Branch Library near Davis Square), Blake, survived by Allen and his other son Ralph Julian Blake, was buried in Mount Auburn Cemetery, also the final resting place of many of his MCZ colleagues. See also: Hassler, James H. Blake, MCZ, Special Collections & Archives View the discussion thread. James Henry Blake (1845-1941) Andrew Garrett and the MCZ Celebrating Robert Gilbert Happy Earth Day! MCZ Image Tagging Event April 21-24, 2020 Remote Library Resources: Tips from the Ernst Mayr Library Staff Transcribe William Brewster's Journals and Diaries BHL at Biodiversity_Next by Grace Costantino Pop-up exhibit Friday, October 25, 2019, 2:00-4:30pm! BHL at the 2019 Society for the Preservation of Natural History Collections (SPNHC) and Digital Data in Biodiversity Meetings Ernst Mayr Library News Volunteer transcribers delve into Mayr Library field notes BHL at the GBIF 25th Governing Board Annual Meeting Search Filter by subject #BHLNDSR (7) Agassiz (10) Alexander Agassiz (2) Andrew Garrett (1) Biodiversity Heritage Library (44) EOL (4) Ernst Mayr Library (48) Exhibits (10) Graduate Students (3) Hassler (7) Hubert Lyman Clark (1) Jacques Burkhardt (2) James H. Blake (7) Librarian Travels (16) MCZ (22) NDSR (4) New Books (2) OEB (2) Ruth Dixon Turner (1) Special Collections & Archives (18) Staff Achievements (4) TDWG (1) William Brewster (23) Blog posts by month September 2020 (1) July 2020 (1) June 2020 (1) April 2020 (1) March 2020 (2) 1 of 14 » subscribe to the EML blog feed Subscribe https://library.mcz.harvard.edu/feed/blog Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement