Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Collections Stephen Blum Collection of Music from Iranian Khorāsān Field recordings, many digital, with an emphasis on sung poetry in Persian (Farsi), Khorasani Turkish (Torki), and Kurmanji Kurdish. The Stephen Blum Collection contains audio from ethnomusicological fieldwork conducted in the northern part of Iranian Khorāsān. It includes about 50 hours of field recordings made in 1968-1969 and 1972, with an emphasis on sung poetry in three languages: Persian (Farsi), Khorasani Turkish (Torki), and Kurmanji Kurdish. Musical genres most prevalent in the collection include: dastgāh, the modal building blocks of Persian art music; and both lyric songs (including chārbeiti, ghazal, and gharibi) and narrative pieces (naqqāli, dāstān, pandiyāt and others) performed as solos or with instrumental accompaniment. Frequently referenced poetic works include the Shāhnāmah of Firdawsī, Sabz parī va Zard parī, and Chahārdah afsānah az afsānahhā-yi rūstāʾī-i Īrān. The performers in this collection are the subjects of Blum's Ph.D. dissertation, "Musics in Contact: The Cultivation of Oral Repertoires in Meshhed, Iran." After completing his dissertation fieldwork in the summer of 1969, Blum taught first at Western Illinois University (1969-73) and the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign (1973-77). From 1977 to 1987 he was the founding director of an M.F.A. program in musicology of contemporary cultures at York University in Toronto. Since 1987, he has taught at the City University of New York Graduate Center, where he initiated a concentration in ethnomusicology. Following the Revolution of 1979, Blum was unable to return to Iran until 1995. At that time, he donated copies of his earlier recordings to the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance, and made additional recordings in Khorāsān as well as in the city of Qazvin, northwest of Tehran. Blum began to make more frequent visits in 2006, and remains in close contact with Iranian students and colleagues. Recordings from these visits consist largely of conversations with occasional performances. The collection also includes notebooks and printed collections of verses intended for singing, along with a street guide to the city of Mashhad. Accessing These Materials The finding aid describes the items in the collection. The reel-to-reel tapes from the collection have been digitized, and audio files of the recordings are available through the finding aid. View Collection Details Contact Loeb Music Library Public Services email: Email Phone number 617-495-2794 Related Collections Collection Archive of World Music Collection Archive of World Music Collections of archival field recordings of musics worldwide, as well as commercial recordings and streaming resources of ethnomusicological interest. Collection Sema Vakf Collection of Turkish Classical Music Collection Sema Vakf Collection of Turkish Classical Music One of the largest collections of Turkish music in the world, devoted to the preservation and perpetuation of classical Turkish music. Collection James A. Rubin Collection of South Indian Classical Music Collection James A. Rubin Collection of South Indian Classical Music One of the most comprehensive and significant collections of Carnatic music recordings in the world today. Collection Eduard Alekseyev Fieldwork Collection of the Musical Culture of Yakutia Collection Eduard Alekseyev Fieldwork Collection of the Musical Culture of Yakutia Digital streaming audio, and video recordings, of traditional religious and ritual cultural expressions of the Sakha (Yakut) people from the Sakha Republic of the Russian Federation. Collection Rubén Blades Archives Collection Rubén Blades Archives Chronicling the life and work of the internationally prominent and popular musician, actor and politician. Collection Laura Boulton Collection Collection Laura Boulton Collection This collection represents Boulton's field work throughout the Eastern Orthodox world during the 1950s and 1960s. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.