Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff Digital Publications Initiative Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × Publications Opportunities Resources News People Contact Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 6 subheader links Home Publications Opportunities Resources News People Contact Digital Publications Initiative Transforming Digital Scholarly Publishing Project Spotlight: Furnace and Fugue For the full portfolio, see Publications. A collaboration between the University Library and the Dean of the Faculty, Brown’s Digital Publications Initiative — generously launched with support from the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation — promotes innovative faculty scholarship by catalyzing both the practice and academic recognition of new scholarly forms. Taking full advantage of the digital environment to advance scholarly arguments in ways that could never be accomplished in a conventional book, whether through multimedia enhancements or interactive navigation systems, Brown’s multimodal born-digital publications create exciting new conditions for the production and sharing of knowledge. Brown partners with leading scholarly publishers to ensure that these groundbreaking works by humanities and humanistic social sciences faculty are validated via rigorous academic review, and disseminated to the broadest possible audience for the greatest possible impact. A new grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities will establish a training institute for scholars from a variety of institutions, disciplines, and backgrounds who wish to develop innovative born-digital publications but lack the necessary resources and capacity at their home institutions. Widely recognized as accessible, intentional, and inclusive, Brown’s novel, university-based approach to digital content development is helping to set the standards for the future of scholarship in the digital age. Digital scholarly publishing is a rapidly evolving enterprise. There is no prescribed roadmap to follow in the realm of enhanced born-digital publications. Brown is creating its own models and forging new partnerships — and that’s quite exciting. Kevin McLaughlin Dean of the Faculty Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University