Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Borrow Direct Contact bdirect@princeton.edu 609.258.7469 Kindly note, at this time, Firestone Library will be the only pick-up location. Please email us at bdirect@princeton.edu with any questions regarding current Borrow Direct services. Effective November 22, 2021, the loan period for Borrow Direct materials will be one 16-week period, instead of two 8-week periods, allowing for maximum loan time without the need to renew. Borrow Direct is a patron-initiated borrowing and lending service of physical books offered by Princeton University Library and twelve partner libraries--Brown, Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, Duke, Harvard, Johns Hopkins, MIT, the University of Chicago, the University of Pennsylvania, Stanford, and Yale. Eligibility The University members eligible for the service: Currently enrolled Princeton students who are authorized to be on campus and have an active PUID Current Princeton faculty who are authorized to be on campus and have an active PUID Currently active Princeton staff members who are authorized to be on campus and have an active PUID Categories 1) and 2) above will include research, technical and other professional staff with a permanent appointment at the University. Borrow Direct material is only available for pick-up at Firestone Library, usually within seven business days. You will receive email notification when the material is ready for pick-up. Multi-volume sets: there is a maximum of five volumes per request. It is the responsibility of the patron to determine if an item is composed of multiple volumes, and to request accordingly. The lending library may recall an item at any time, and assign a new due date. Overdue recalled items accrue fines of $1.00 per day, up to a $90.00 maximum per item. If a book is not recalled, but overdue, normal overdue fines of $.25 per day will apply. Please do not take Borrow Direct materials out of the country, as this makes it difficult to return items on time, especially if items are recalled. Beginning Sept. 28, you must return Borrow Direct material by the due date, to Firestone Library. Fines are temporarily suspended at this time. Note: Due to COVID-19 the Borrow Direct Plus service (described below) may not be available at every Borrow Direct partner library. Check with a participating partner library before planning any visits. PUL is currently unable to accept any visits from Borrow Direct partner library patrons. Borrow Direct Plus is a service available to faculty, staff and students at Borrow Direct partner libraries. The service allows for short term onsite borrowing at Borrow Direct libraries. It does not allow for the pickup of regular Borrow Direct requests at other institutions. Users who have accounts in good standing will have access to circulating materials at any of the participating libraries. When visiting one of these libraries, members of the Borrow Direct Plus community will need to show their campus ID card and log into their home library account to show their current status; once verified, they will be issued a library card. Items, collections and participating libraries on each campus will vary by institution. The lending library’s policies and loan periods for onsite borrowing are similar to those for guest borrowers, and it is recommended that users considering a visit to one of the libraries view their policies ahead of time http://www.borrowdirect.org/on-site-borrowing For more information about Borrow Direct, consult our Frequently Asked Questions. Connect Access Borrow Direct Please remember to close your browser when finished using Borrow Direct. Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top