Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog How to... Access Materials at Houghton Library Houghton is home to rare books and manuscripts, literary and performing arts archives, and more. Here's how to access these primary source materials. Library Access Requesting Materials Reading Room Policies Accessibility Houghton Library Access Beginning Monday February 28, 2022, Houghton Library's reading room and exhibition spaces are open to researchers and visitors with Harvard ID or proof of COVID-19 vaccination and booster. We welcome all who wish to use the library’s collections Visiting Houghton All visitors to Houghton Library age 12 or older will be required to present proof of vaccination and booster, along with a photo ID for those age 17 and older. See the Harvard Library Vaccination Requirement Policy. Masks recommended: Although it is not required, face coverings are recommended inside the library. Our policies are based on current disease dynamics and federal (including CDC), state, and Harvard guidelines and may be subject to change or reevaluation. Please review the Harvard Library Visitor Access page prior to your visit for up-to-date policies and guidelines, including information on visiting other libraries. If you have any questions about Houghton Library access, please email us at houghton_library@harvard.edu. Things to know Researchers are always welcome to contact the library prior to visiting so that our librarians can assist you in planning your research project. Researchers younger than 14 years old are welcome to use the collections when accompanied by an adult (18+ years of age). Both children and adults are responsible for adhering to all reading room policies. Reading Room registration If you’d like to visit the Houghton Library Reading Room, start by registering as a library user in “HOLLIS Special Request.” Current Harvard affiliates should bring their Harvard ID when visiting the reading room. If you are a non-Harvard user, please bring a form of photo identification (such as a State-issued driver's license, State ID card, passport, US Military ID, Permanent Resident card, or Naturalization Certificate). For researchers not using a Harvard ID, we’ll take a quick, informal photo of you as part of the registration process. This will allow us to confirm your identity each time you visit our reading room. Patron registration and circulation records are kept in perpetuity. These records are kept confidential to the extent permitted by law. Names of researchers using Houghton Library's Emerson collections are shared with the Emerson Memorial Association trustees when permission is given for such sharing. Tool HOLLIS Special Request Request materials for use onsite in library reading rooms or request copies of library materials. Requesting Materials Researchers can use the HOLLIS catalog to search for rare books, manuscripts, images, maps, and printed materials. Finding aids, which provide detailed descriptions of archival materials, can be searched via HOLLIS Archival Discovery. Researchers place requests to view items in the Reading Room online by clicking "Request Item" via the catalog, which will bring you to your HOLLIS Special Request account. You can also fill out the request form in HOLLIS Special Request manually. Researchers are encouraged to place requests for materials in advance of your visit. We will be happy to page up to 10 collection items in advance of your visit. Materials requests made "on-demand" at the time of your visit typically take between 20-30 minutes to be delivered to the reading room. Tool HOLLIS HOLLIS is Harvard Library's catalog. Search HOLLIS for books, articles, media and more. Tool HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Catalog for exploring collection guides, finding aids and inventories to locate unique materials in Harvard's special collections and archives. Requesting Restricted Materials Most of Houghton Library’s materials can be seen without special arrangement. However, items designated as "Restricted" in the catalog need permission for access. Usually an item is restricted because it's very fragile or in a special format that requires staff help for its use. In most cases we offer readers the use of a surrogate (microfilm, facsimile or digital copy) of the restricted item with the goal of prolonging the life of the original. Occasionally a donor or the family of an author whose papers we hold has requested that an item be restricted because of privacy concerns. In both cases, you must request permission from Houghton staff to view restricted material. To request permission to access restricted materials, place a request through your HOLLIS Special Request account. Include a note that provides the specific reasons that you would like access to the restricted materials and include a prospective date for your visit. Researchers who request to see restricted materials will receive a reply to their request as soon as possible, generally within two business days. Requesting Offsite Materials Requests for material must be placed at least two business days in advance of the scheduled date by 2PM, and include a scheduled visit date. No more than 10 items per day may be requested from offsite. If you have questions or would like an accommodation, please contact our Public Services department. Reading Room Policies Houghton Library welcomes researchers to our Reading Room to view our collections, which do not circulate outside of the library. The Reading Room is not open for general study purposes. Here are some things to keep in mind for your visit: Handling guidelines must be conscientiously followed in order to preserve library material for future use. Library staff are always available to provide guidance. Researchers are welcome to bring pencils, laptops, tablets, phones (in silent mode), digital cameras, and other materials to assist in their research. Researchers are welcome to photograph most materials. Some collections may be subject to donor stipulations that limit or prohibit photography. Researchers are asked not to take pictures of the Reading Room itself, other patrons, or library staff. The library does not permit the use of pens, tripods, scanners, camera flashes, special lighting, or any other equipment that rests directly on collection material or may pose a risk of damage. In order to preserve relative quiet for our researchers, we ask laptop computer and digital camera users to turn off all audible features, if possible. Researchers may bring personal books or papers into the Reading Room only if these items are necessary for their immediate research. Based on the nature of that material, researchers may need to fill out documentation to differentiate their materials from Houghton collections. Houghton Library provides free lockers to store any materials not permitted in the reading room, such as food and drink, bags, outerwear, and writing instruments other than pencils. We offer a number of supplies that may help you in your research, including: pencils, note taking paper, magnifying glasses, tape measures and rulers, a light box, a UV lamp, a transilluminator, collator, CD player, a loaner laptop, a desktop computers, and headphones. Because of the rarity of the material in the collection, Houghton material may not removed from the Reading Room. Researchers must show all books and papers to the Reading Room staff each time they leave the Reading Room to ensure no collection items are among them. If researchers bring strollers into the reading room, please be aware that they will need to be searched by library personnel upon exit from the room. Please be aware that there is a mandatory bag check for all visitors, researchers, and staff at the library exit. Accessibility Harvard University encourages persons with disabilities to participate in its programs and activities. If you anticipate needing any type of accommodation or have questions about the physical access provided, please contact our Public Services team in advance of your visit. Houghton Library can be entered by a gently sloped walkway or a short flight of steps. The Library has an elevator to all public spaces. The restrooms are accessible, gender neutral, and include changing tables. The Houghton Reading Room includes ADA accessible tables, adjustable chairs, and task lighting. In order to preserve relative quiet for our readers, we ask laptop computer users to turn off all audible features if possible. Readers who need to work with specially equipped machines, including text-to-speech, should contact Reading Room staff in advance to be sure of accommodations. Magnifying glasses and table lamps are available upon request in the Reading Room. Requests for Sign Language interpreters and/or CART providers should be made at least two weeks in advance if possible. The university will make every effort to secure services, subject to availability. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.