Skip to main content Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Menu Main navigation Explore Resources Knowledge Base Insights Programs Archives & Special Collections Secondary navigation About Us Ask a Question COVID-19 Update Search for: Breadcrumb Home About Us Library Policies Consulting Service Policy Statement of Intent The Consulting Service Policy aims to make any consulting engagement with Information Experts (Informationists) from the Health Sciences Library (HSL) effective and efficient. Scope Information Experts at HSL render advice, solutions or recommendations to CUIMC client groups in the following areas: All types of literature-related projects, including systematic reviews, literature reviews for grant proposals, capstone papers and theses/dissertations. Course development and selection of information materials for assignments. Data collection standards and practice. Publication options, i.e., strategies to select a journal for publication, journal instruction for authors, strategies and ethics of publishing and authorship. Strategies and tools to build and maintain visibility and impact. In each of the above areas, Information Experts offer the following categories of service*: Strategic advice, consisting of targeted solutions to tackle specific problems. Available to students, faculty, and staff at CUIMC. May involve a one-time meeting, and a one-time bulleted feedback synopsis, as determined by the Informationist. Full-service, i.e., a ‘done-for you’ service, in which the Informationist(s) contributes to the project as a team member and takes on agreed-upon responsibilities. Available to faculty only, subject to availability. The initial meeting will identify needs/goals/options. A written agreement and fees will be applied after initial discussion, accordingly. *If training is needed, please refer to our educational program policy and procedures. For strategic advice, please Ask a Question For a full-service engagement, please Request a Consultation (for faculty only) Back to top Advancing meaningful engagement with information Contact Us Service Desk: (212) 305-3605 Interlibrary Loan: (212) 305-3605 Archives & Special Collections: (212) 305-7931 Send us an email Connect on Twitter (@CUIMClibrary) Visit Us Augustus C. Long Health Sciences Library Hammer Health Sciences Building, Lobby Level Columbia University Irving Medical Center 701 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 About Us Location and Hours Library Spaces Library Staff Library Accounts Library Policies Computing Resources Recommend A Library Purchase Columbia University Irving Medical Center © 2021 Columbia University Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions Manage Web Cookie Preference