Skip to main content Contact Us My Accounts Give to UH Libraries University of Houston Libraries Search Borrow Research & Learning Spaces & Technology About Home > Open Educational Resources Open Educational Resources Open Educational Resources Open educational resources (OER) are teaching and learning resources in the public domain or that have been licensed in such a way that anyone to freely use and re-purpose them. OER are any tools or materials used to support learning, including full courses, course materials, modules, textbooks, lesson plans, streaming videos, tests, etc. Want to know more? Schedule an individual consultation Request a customized presentation or workshop Sign up for the OER listserv for information on OER incentive programs, upcoming events, and OER news and updates OER FAQ How do I adopt an Open Educational Resource (OER)? Evaluating and integrating OER into a course is usually the responsibility of the faculty member, but librarians and other campus stakeholders may be involved. Adoption and modification generally follows a five-step process. Step 1. Review the materials Many open textbooks have been peer reviewed by faculty or subject matter experts. Use these reviews to narrow down choices before examining them yourself. If you want to evaluate the materials yourself, there are some existing rubrics. The Achieve non-profit provides both Rubrics for Evaluating OER Objects (PDF) as well as an OER Rubrics Training Materials. Other resources include BCcampus Open Textbook Review criteria (PDF) by BCcampus and the Evaluating OER rubric by iRubric. Step 2. Modify the OER if necessary Determine whether any modification is needed first. If you decide to modify materials, you must consider the format of the material, the creative common license type, and potential hosting for a new digital version. Helpful guides on adapting and modifying open textbooks include: 6 Steps to Modifying an Open Textbook by BCcampus Modifying an Open Textbook: What You Need to Know by Rebus Press Formatting If the OER is available in an editable format, an easy approach is to use the same tool as the original author to modify it We recommend consulting with your colleges’ instructional designers, particularly if you have never done this work before If you are remixing multiple OER in different formats, decide on the format for the final product, and convert the remaining resources to this format for remixing License considerations Understanding how different OER licenses can be combined is important. If the resources have licenses with the ShareAlike (SA) and NonCommercial (NC) clauses, you should consult the Creative Commons License Compatibility Chart If you remix OER with different licenses, you need to make clear in your final product which sections have license restrictions that are different from the one you select for your remix. A librarian may also be able to assist you Hosting After creating a revised version of the OER, consider where to post the digital copy for student access. If you are only planning to share on campus, then you might post it to a college file server or a Learning Management System (such as Blackboard) If you would like to share more widely, you might consider posting the OER in the UH Open Access Institutional Repository Step 3. Attributing OER Attributing the creator or copyright holder is required by Creative Common licenses, U.S. copyright law, and is good practice in general. For CC-licensed works, you must include the required attribution. Information and tools for automating this process is available in the article How to attribute a Creative Commons licensed work. Step 4. Curriculum approval (if needed) You may need from others at your college for instructional material choices such as the division or department chair, curriculum committee, articulation officer, disability services office, etc. Step 5. Delivering OER to Students Engage with all necessary campus stakeholders involved in delivering instructional material to students. These include: UH Bookstore UH Libraries instructional designers IT help desk On-site print services The simplest delivery method is to provide a link to view or download the OER. Downloadable formats include PDF, ePub or mobi — certain formats are preferable for students with visual impairments and to those without reliable internet access. You may also download the OER and upload to a Learning Management System (such as Blackboard) or the UH Open Access Institutional Repository. Encourage feedback from students on usability and access to OER. [Adapted from the Open Education Consortium.] I am nervous about letting go of my textbook because I don’t know if OER/Open Textbook authors will keep the resources up to date. How can I trust that the resources I select will be kept current and accurate? It’s true: Adopting open resources involves a change in how you think about your course textbooks. The feelings of ownership are different with OER than with traditional textbooks. Open licensing allows you to update the material how you like, as long as it has the appropriate Creative Commons licensing. It is common to collaborate with other instructors (inside or outside UH) or with students to improve open resources, which means responsibility for updates is not just yours. There are a growing number of open textbooks that have usual publisher services, including regular updates, printed and bound copies available for purchase, test banks, and other instructor supplements. Good example include OpenStax and BCCampus. How do you tell if an educational resource is an OER? OER have intellectual property licenses that allow you freedoms to share and adapt them. If an educational resource is not clearly tagged or marked as being in the public domain or having an open license, it is not OER. The most common way to release materials as OER is through Creative Commons copyright licenses, which are standardized, free-to-use open licenses that have already been used on more than 1 billion copyrighted works. Can OER be high quality if it is free? Studies at both the K-12 and higher education levels show that students who use OER do as well, and often better, than their peers using traditional resources. Many OER are developed through rigorous peer review and production processes that mirror traditional materials. Being open or closed does not inherently affect the quality of a resource. However, being open does enable educators to use the resource more effectively, which can lead to better outcomes. For example, OER can be updated locally to fit specific student needs, and eliminates cost barriers for students. Do OER require special technology to use? OER users have the right to turn them into any format they wish (which is almost always forbidden with traditional resources). OER aren’t tied to a particular type of device or software, giving students and schools more freedom in what technology they purchase. In cases where technology isn’t available, there is always the option to print. [Adapted from SPARC Open’s FAQ: Open Educational Resources.] Open Educational Resources About OER Alternative Textbook Incentive Program ATIP FAQs ATIP Awardees OER Creation Program Find OER Adapt/Create OER Resources OER Events & News Contact Ariana Santiago OER Coordinator asantiago2@uh.edu 713-743-7419 4333 University Drive Houston, TX 77204-2000 (713) 743-1050 Privacy Policy Hours Employment Directory Give Us Feedback Contact Us Give to UH Libraries Libraries & Collections Maps & Directions UH Libraries News Site Search Site Map Search Borrow Research & Learning Spaces & Technology About UH Home facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Please ensure Javascript is enabled for purposes of website accessibility