Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog How to... Get Remote Support for Research & Publishing Working away from your lab or campus office? Harvard Library can help. Connect with us Research Tools Data Sets Share Your Research University Resources RESEARCH WITH HARVARD LIBRARY Harvard Library makes it possible for researchers from all disciplines to generate, curate, transform and publish their research through direct engagement with library staff, access to existing data sets and tools, and robust digital repositories for data and scholarly communications. CONNECT WITH RESEARCH EXPERTS Our staff of experts is here to help you find existing research sources, curate your own data, and utilize our digital repositories. Together we'll figure out a plan to get what you need to bring your research beyond the walls of your lab or campus office. Service Research Consultations Get personalized guidance from one of our library specialists online or in-person—no question is too small. Service Library Liaisons Make an appointment with a library liaison to get the help you need to get your work done. Register for a Workshop In addition to individual consultations, we also offer research support through remote workshops and seminars: Introduction to NVivo for Mac Preparing for Qualitative Field Work Comparing Qualitative Data Analysis Tools Interview Skills Online Short-Seminar: The Research Data Lifecycle Online Seminar: Writing a Data Management Plan Online Short-Seminar: Data Management in Action Online Short-Seminar: Let’s Make Research Data FAIR Online Short-Seminar: Get Your Data Organized Many of Harvard’s professional schools offer specialized support for data services in certain disciplines. Publishing Data Services at Countway Library Countway Library Review Service Research Data Program at Baker Library Publishing Data Services at Countway Library Countway Library Review Service Research Data Program at Baker Library Empirical Research Services at HLS Library Show LessShow More GENERATE, CURATE, AND TRANSFORM YOUR RESEARCH Use these services and tools to make it easier to engage with your research data and scholarly sources, from anywhere in the world. Tool DMPTool Create and share data management plans to meet funder requirements — and as a best practice for managing your research data — with this online tool. Tool NVivo Working with qualitative data and statistics? This powerful software for qualitative research analysis can help. Service Visualization Support Get help and training with data visualization design and tools—such as Tableau—for the Harvard community. Service Digital Mapping and GIS Support Get help with maps, mapping, geographic information systems, and other geospatial tools, as well as cartographic design. Tool EndNote This highly customizable research management software helps you save and organize your references for citation and bibliographies. Tool Zotero An easy-to-use citation tool to help you collect, organize, cite and share research. SEE ALL SERVICES & TOOLS FIND EXISTING DATASETS AND SOURCES Harvard Library provides access to repositories of data from all disciplines. Search for existing datasets or explore through APIs and curated worksets. Finding Datasets in HOLLIS The "Advanced Search" function in HOLLIS allows you to limit by Resource Type to "Research Data Sets." Add your own keywords to refine. Search HOLLIS Licensed Datasets in Dataverse As a Harvard affiliate, login to Dataverse and access thousands of licensed datasets across numerous research fields. Explore Harvard Dataverse HathiTrust Research Center The HathiTrust Research Center (HTRC) enables computational analysis across 17+ million digitized items. Visit the HTRC LibraryCloud Item API Harvard LibraryCloud is a metadata hub that provides granular, open access to a large aggregation of Harvard library bibliographic metadata. Learn about LibraryCloud Caselaw Access Project The Caselaw Access Project (CAP) includes all official, book-published United States case law, converted into structured data. Use CAP Tools STORING AND SHARING YOUR RESEARCH Whether you’re planning on publishing data sets, scholarly articles, or working papers, Harvard Library maintains digital repositories that allow you to store and share your research. Tool DASH A central catalog and open-access repository of research by members of the Harvard community. Tool Harvard Dataverse Harvard's open online repository for sharing, preserving, citing, exploring and analyzing research data. UNIVERSITY RESOURCES Partner sites from across the University also have information to help you with research data and publishing. Research Data Management @ Harvard IQSS Data Science Services Office for Sponsored Programs Research Data Management @ Harvard IQSS Data Science Services Office for Sponsored Programs Copyright First Responders Digital Scholarship Support Group (DSSG) Show LessShow More Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.