My Library Account Hours Ask a Librarian Columbia University Libraries Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library in Uris Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Our Values & Commitment in Action Strategic Directions Staff Jobs & Internships Student Library Advisory Committee News LibraryWeb (Site) Services & Tools Library Information Office Library Information Office The Library Information Office administers user privileges, provides information about library policies, and redirects questions to other library personnel as appropriate. Access Privileges Most library locations are currently open for study and access to stacks for faculty students, and staff. Before visiting, please read more about who can access the libraries currenly, requirements for visiting, and temporary suspension of access for certain groups. Go to Access Privileges Fines and Fees The Library Information Office process payment of fines and fees for overdue and/or lost library materials. You should consult your “My Library Account” in CLIO to check the status of borrowed items. Fines and fees may be paid by credit card (Mastercard, Visa or Discover), check, or money order. The clearance process required before University transcripts and diplomas can be issued is managed at the Library Information Office. See the Borrow, Request, Renew page for more information on fines and fees. Lockers The Library Information Office manages the distribution of lockers at the start of every academic year. More information regarding Butler locker assignments is provided close to the beginning of the academic year, typically in late August. Visitor Services and Information Planning a visit to the Rare Book and Manuscript Library and other Libraries collections on display? Please bring government-issued photo identification to the Library Information Office to receive a day pass. Click this page for visitor guidelines and what you will need before you arrive. Library visitors may also purchase access to the Libraries, which includes physical access to most library spaces between 9am and 11pm (or during library operating hours within that window), borrowing privileges, use of public computers in library spaces, and access to most e-resources on public computers. Information for visitors to Columbia about services provided by the libraries may be found on our Visitors Services page. Contact Information Inji L. Ruiz Library Assistant V Access Services Administration ilr2107@columbia.edu (212) 854-2235 Butler Library - 201 Butler Library Deborah Wilson Administrative Assistant Access Services Administration dw23@columbia.edu (212) 854-7309 Butler Library - 201 Butler Library Library Information Office Today's Hours: Full Schedule » 201 Butler Library 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-7309 E-mail: lio@columbia.edu Access Privileges Accessibility Butler Lockers Visitor Services Borrowing, Request, Renew Columbia University Libraries 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone 212-854-7309 Contact Us lio@columbia.edu Follow Us Donate Books or Items Suggestions & Feedback Report an E-Resource Problem The Bancroft Prizes Student Library Advisory Committee Jobs & Internships Behind the Scenes at Columbia's Libraries Policies Copyright Columbia University ©2021 Columbia University Libraries Nondiscrimination Ask A Librarian