Skip to main content For COVID-19 vaccine updates, please review our information guide. For patient eligibility and scheduling availability, please visit VaccineTogetherNY.org. Enter the terms you wish to search for. Select Search Option This Site All WCM Sites Directory Menu Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach I am interested in... Wayfinder menu Ask Us Chat Now ITS Website Hours Weill Cornell Medicine Samuel J. Wood Library Explore this Website I am interested in... Wayfinder menu Ask Us Chat Now ITS Website Hours Home Visitor InformationToggle Visitor Information menu options Circulation and Renewal Cornell University Alumni Cornell University Visitors WCM/CU Visitors at Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar The Health Professionals Access Program Public/Visitors Reserve an ItemToggle Reserve an Item menu options Reserve an Easel Proctoring Weill Cornell Visitors at Ithaca/Geneva Access and Privileges - COVID Information Alumni Services Center Alumni Council Information for WCM Summer Program Students Notary Public Service Remote Access to Library Resources Weill Cornell Alumni Inside the LibraryToggle Inside the Library menu options 24/7 Study Space Collaboration RoomToggle Collaboration Room menu options Reserve the Collaboration Room Computers in the Library Library Computer LabsToggle Library Computer Labs menu options Reserve the Computer Lab Food and Drink Rules for User Conduct Phone Use in the Library Print and Photocopying Wireless Access Software in the Library Research SupportToggle Research Support menu options Research Funding Resources Interlibrary Loan and TripSaver Bibliographic Management Tools Subject GuidesToggle Subject Guides menu options By Topics Ask a Reference Question Duplicating Services Grant Editing IACUC Protocol Support Karger Open Access Library Scientific Software Hub Scholarly Profile Management and Publications Reporting eCommons: Weill Cornell's Institutional Repository ArchivesToggle Archives menu options About UsToggle About Us menu options Policies Cornell Medical Index Archives Blog History of the InstitutionsToggle History of the Institutions menu options Historical Timeline NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Weill Cornell Medical College Weill Cornell Graduate School of Medical Sciences Cornell University-New York Hospital School of Nursing Lying-In Hospital Manhattan Maternity and Dispensary New York Asylum of Lying-In Women New York Infant Asylum New York Nursery and Child's Hospital Nursery and Child Hospital History of the Medical CenterToggle History of the Medical Center menu options Historical Beginnings Departmental Timelines Medical Center Highlights Medical Center Buildings Image Collections Digital Historical Publications Personal Papers and Manuscripts Institutional Archives Historical Patient Records SMARTDeskToggle SMARTDesk menu options Software in the Library Computers in the Library About UsToggle About Us menu options Snake Oil to Social Media: Drug Advertising & Your HealthToggle Snake Oil to Social Media: Drug Advertising & Your Health menu options The History of Drug Advertising The Food and Drug Administration: the Continued History of Drug Advertising Modern Drug Advertisements, Themes & FDA Regulations Empower Yourself - Ask & Learn! About Us, Downloadable Content & Works Cited Art in the LibraryToggle Art in the Library menu options Past Shows Art Show Guidelines Current Shows Records and MissionsToggle Records and Missions menu options Balanced Scorecard Confidentiality of Library Records Policy Donate to the Library - the Honor with Books Program Mission Statistics Tell us your Library Story News and AnnouncementsToggle News and Announcements menu options Annual Report and Publications Affiliated Institutions and Departments Staff All Library Forms Career Opportunities and Internships Hours PoliciesToggle Policies menu options Internet Access and Computer Use Policy Samuel J. Wood Library Staff Publications Ask Us Mobile Apps Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Home Visitor Information Inside the Library Research Support Archives SMARTDesk About Us Ask Us Mobile Apps OneSearch E-Resources E-Journals About this search Articles & Full Text Advanced Search OneSearch help Cornell-Ithaca About this search Browse By Title & Subject Download Mobile Apps About this search Browse By Subject Citation Linker Keep Current Masking policy relaxed; eating and drinking policy reinstated Following the College's updated Covid policy, wearing a mask inside the Library will be optional for all vaccinated users beginning Thursday, March 10, 2022. In addition,... Continue Reading Popular e-Resources PubMed AccessMedicine UptoDate OVID Scopus MICROMEDEX ClinicalKey Cinahl Cochrane Library Web of Science COVID-19 Library Service Updates Due to the impact of COVID-19 on the Weill Cornell community, the library is temporarily updating some of its policies. Stay tuned to this page for the most recent updates regarding COVID-19 and library resources and services Service Alerts Masking policy relaxed; eating and drinking policy reinstated Following the College's updated Covid policy, wearing a mask inside the Library will be optional for all vaccinated users beginning Thursday, March 10, 2022. In addition, eating and drinking in the Library will be allowed for vaccinated individuals. See updated Covid policy.Vaccinated users who can... Read more Events There are no news posts that meet that criteria. Live Chat with a Librarian Chat with Us Submit a Reference Question Ask Us Browse our LibGuides Subject Guides View our FAQs Help Featured e-Books & e-Resources BMJ Best Practice BMJ 2018 DynaMed's New Interface DynaMed's New... 2019 STAT Plus STAT 2020 PitchBook PitchBook 2022 View all e-Books General Information Grant Editing Service Get help with your grants! Notary Public Service Notary public by appointment Patient Resource Center Scholarly material for patients Karger Open Access No-cost OA publishing News COVID-19 Library Service Updates Mar 5 2020 - 3:45pm More News Medical Center Archives Interested in conducting historical research? Want to learn about the history of the medical center? Need illustrations for your presentations or publications? Visit the archives. About this image More Medical Center Archives Our Affiliations Patient Resource Center NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital Cornell Store Cornell University Cornell University Library More affiliations Our Location Weill Cornell Medicine Samuel J. Wood Library Contact Us Twitter Facebook Samuel J. Wood Library & C.V. Starr Biomedical Information Center 1300 York Avenue New York, NY 10065 Phone: SMARTDesk: (646) 962-2570 Open until 12am Visitor Information Circulation and Renewal Cornell University Alumni Cornell University Visitors WCM/CU Visitors at Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar The Health Professionals Access Program Public/Visitors Reserve an Item Proctoring Weill Cornell Visitors at Ithaca/Geneva Access and Privileges - COVID Information Alumni Services Center Alumni Council Notary Public Service Remote Access to Library Resources Weill Cornell Alumni Inside the Library 24/7 Study Space Collaboration Room Computers in the Library Library Computer Labs Food and Drink Rules for User Conduct Phone Use in the Library Print and Photocopying Wireless Access Software in the Library Research Support Research Funding Resources Interlibrary Loan and TripSaver Bibliographic Management Tools Subject Guides Ask a Reference Question Duplicating Services Grant Editing IACUC Protocol Support Karger Open Access Library Scientific Software Hub Scholarly Profile Management and Publications Reporting eCommons: Weill Cornell's Institutional Repository Archives About Us Archives Blog History of the Institutions History of the Medical Center Image Collections Digital Historical Publications Personal Papers and Manuscripts Institutional Archives Historical Patient Records SMARTDesk Software in the Library Computers in the Library About Us Snake Oil to Social Media: Drug Advertising & Your Health Art in the Library Records and Missions News and Announcements Affiliated Institutions and Departments Staff All Library Forms Career Opportunities and Internships Hours Policies Samuel J. Wood Library Staff Publications Ask Us Mobile Apps Care. Discover. Teach. With a legacy of putting patients first, Weill Cornell Medicine is committed to providing exemplary and individualized clinical care, making groundbreaking biomedical discoveries, and educating generations of exceptional doctors and scientists. Weill Cornell Medicine NewYork - Presbyterian © Weill Cornell Medicine. Privacy & Legal Careers Giving Directory Web Accessibility Assistance