Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog How to... Access Materials at the Harvard University Archives University Archives collections document the academic, social, cultural, and work life of the Harvard community. Here's how to access this material. Find and Request Collections Availability Reading Room Reproductions Publication Permissions Find and Request To find Harvard University Archives' collections of archives, manuscripts, books, images, and more, search HOLLIS and HOLLIS Images. Finding aids, which provide detailed descriptions of many collections, can be searched in HOLLIS for Archival Discovery. To request University Archives materials for use in our Reading Room, please use Hollis Special Request. Please submit your requests at least three business days before a visit, as many collections are stored off site and access to some collections may require special permission. Have a question? Contact us at archives_reference@harvard.edu. Tool HOLLIS HOLLIS is Harvard Library's catalog. Search HOLLIS for books, articles, media and more. Tool HOLLIS Special Request Request materials for use onsite in library reading rooms or request copies of library materials. Tool HOLLIS Images A catalog and search tool for finding images from Harvard Library collections. Tool HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Catalog for exploring collection guides, finding aids and inventories to locate unique materials in Harvard's special collections and archives. Collections Availability Many of the University Archives' collections are open and available for use. However, restrictions apply to certain categories of material. University policy restricts access to University administrative records for a period of 50 years from the date of their creation. University records pertaining to individuals, including student and employee records, are closed for a minimum of 80 years. Archives of student, alumni, and other associated organizations are subject to the same 50- and 80-year restrictions on access. Personal archives of faculty, administrators, students, and alumni/ae may be subject to restrictions established by the donor. University records in personal archives are subject to the same 50- and 80-year restrictions on access required by University policy. Records in general distribution at their time of creation are usually open without restriction. These include announcements, official University publications, calendars, brochures, and public reports. For questions about access to specific collections, please contact the Archives reference staff at archives_reference@harvard.edu in advance of your visit before requesting any items. Reading Room In adherence to University guidelines, all visitors to the Harvard University Archives reading room are required to wear a face mask for the duration of their visit. We welcome researchers to visit our reading room to use our collections. Here are some things to keep in mind for your visit: In order to preserve the collections for future use, please follow these 10 Tips for Reading Room Success. We're always available to help with oversize, heavy, or fragile items. Book cradles, weights, and magnifying glasses are available for your use. You are welcome to bring pencils, a laptop, tablet, phone (in silent mode), and a digital camera to assist in your research. We provide lockers for personal property not essential for research. Please keep all food and drink outside of the reading room. You are welcome to photograph most material. However, some collections may be subject to restrictions that limit or prohibit photography. Please do not to take pictures of the Reading Room, other patrons, or library staff. Reproductions We recommend bringing a digital camera so that you can make your own copies. Our staff can provide only a limited number of low-resolution reference scans. For high-resolution scans or extensive copy requests, Harvard Library Imaging Services may be available. Please ask Harvard University Archives reference staff for details. Service Reproductions Need a copy? Request reproductions of library materials for research or publication. Publishing from Our Collections The publication of direct quotations, excerpts, and images from Harvard University Archives' collections requires the permission of the University Archivist. Please send permission requests to archives_collections@harvard.edu. Be sure to submit permission requests well in advance of publication date, as it may take several weeks for a reply. Requests must include the following information: copies of relevant sections of the manuscript, with quotes or excerpts highlighted, and/or copies of images complete citations for the original materials, including the name of the collection, title/description/date of the item, folder title, call number, and box number (if applicable) title of the publication in which the material will appear name of the publisher anticipated date of publication Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.