Skip to main content Contact Us My Accounts Give to UH Libraries University of Houston Libraries Search Borrow Research & Learning Spaces & Technology About Home > Research & Learning > Guides & Videos Guides & Videos Resources created for research, instruction, and more. Guides Guides by subject > All guides Course guides Advanced research topics Videos What is a literature review? Video transcript of “What is a literature review?” What is peer review? Video transcript of “What is a peer review?” How do I incorporate sources into my papers? Video transcript of “How do I incorporate sources into my papers?” What are primary and secondary sources? Video transcript of “What are primary and secondary sources?” What are popular and scholarly sources? Video transcript of “What are popular and scholarly sources?” Why do we cite sources? Video transcript of “Why do we cite sources?” What’s the difference between a research database and Google? Video transcript of “What’s the difference between a research database and Google?” What are keywords and why are they important? Video transcript of “What are keywords and why are they important?” Picking a topic is research Video transcript of “Picking a topic is research” Video adapted from NCSU What are Altmetrics? What is data? How do I read a citation? What is a concept map? Research & Learning Research & Learning Library Instruction Program Guides & Videos Information Literacy Lessons About Information Literacy Open Educational Resources Assisted Institutional Repository Submissions Submit Your Works Distance Education Support Copyright Services 4333 University Drive Houston, TX 77204-2000 (713) 743-1050 Privacy Policy Hours Employment Directory Give Us Feedback Contact Us Give to UH Libraries Libraries & Collections Maps & Directions UH Libraries News Site Search Site Map Search Borrow Research & Learning Spaces & Technology About UH Home facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Please ensure Javascript is enabled for purposes of website accessibility