Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog How to... Use Harvard Library's Special Collections and Archives Open to all, these unique materials can take you to places you never expected. Finding Materials Viewing Materials Visiting Researchers Teaching What are special Collections and Archives? Enrich your understanding of the world with Harvard’s vast special collections and archives. Connect with a range of primary sources including letters, photographs, books, scores, digital materials, and objects. Explore handwritten poetry by some of the best known authors of our time campaign materials from decades past, and images that capture people and places as they once were. We collect and preserve this history so anyone can access it for years to come. Connecting with these materials can enhance your understanding of the present and future and take you to new and exciting places and ideas. The process for finding and requesting these rare and unique materials is different from other library materials. Use this guide as your map. Harvard Library's special collections and archives are open to all. Finding Materials Ways to Search Different libraries have different holdings, so you may want to start by using our search tools to locate materials relevant to your research. HOLLIS In HOLLIS, try limiting search results to archives/manuscripts, images, or a specific library. Digitized items will have a “view online” link in HOLLIS. Search digitized images using HOLLIS Images. FINDING AIDS Finding aids are descriptions of what types of things are inside of an archival box. They can help you better understand the types of material in a collection, its organization, and the location of the materials. They can also link to digital content in the collection. Use HOLLIS for Archival Discovery to search only finding aids, though they are also discoverable in HOLLIS. Tool HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Catalog for exploring collection guides, finding aids and inventories to locate unique materials in Harvard's special collections and archives. Tool HOLLIS Images A catalog and search tool for finding images from Harvard Library collections. Tool HOLLIS HOLLIS is Harvard Library's catalog. Search HOLLIS for books, articles, media and more. HARMFUL LANGUAGE WARNING Some of our records contain language created decades ago, and may include language that is harmful or offensive. We are committed to investigating and remediating past and current oppressive practices in archival description. Please read our statement on harmful language in archival description. Explore Collections From books and newspapers, to one-of-a-kind primary source materials, chances are we have something for you. Browse Featured Collections Viewing Materials Using Special Collections Special collections and archives do not circulate and must be viewed in the holding library's reading room. Let us help you access to the materials and items you need for your research. COVID-19 Update: If you are not able to visit campus, we are working to ensure special collections remain available to the Harvard community. In many cases, we can scan the item and send you a PDF. Once you’ve identified which items you’d like, click "View in Library" in HOLLIS, or in HOLLIS for Archival Discovery, a link in the upper right will provide a link to the HOLLIS record where you can request the material. The "View in Library" link will connect you to the HOLLIS Special Request system. First time users will be prompted to create an account. You do not need Harvard credentials to create an account. This system is where you manage reading room requests to view special collection items. Some items can't be requested via HOLLIS. If there is no “View in Library” option, you should contact the library that holds the materials for more information. REQUEST TIPS Individual libraries often ask to hear from you ahead of time to ensure the materials you need are available. Find contact information for each library. Items stored onsite can often be retrieved the same day. Any items that indicate they’re stored offsite or in the Harvard Depository take more time to retrieve. Working in a Reading Room Once you’ve arranged to see items in a reading room, here are some things to keep in mind about your visit: October 2021: If you are using one of our reading rooms, you must follow the current COVID-19 guidance for campus visitors. Library staff will be able to provide tips and guidance for handling any fragile materials. Archives and special collections stacks are closed to researchers and materials do not circulate beyond reading rooms. There may be limits on the amount of material that can be used at any one time. Staff may limit what you can bring into the reading room, including bags and other personal property. Bags may be subject to search by staff. You can use pencils, notepaper and laptop computers for note taking. Pens and highlighters are not allowed. There's no food or drink, including gum and candy, allowed in the reading rooms. Students looking at a rare book in Houghton Library 10 Tips for Reading Room Success Not sure how to handle our special collections materials? These handy guidelines can help preserve Harvard's rare items for the future. Learn More Visiting Researchers Planning Your Visit Harvard Library's special collections and archives are open to all, by appointment. The following are instructions for visiting researchers who are not current Harvard faculty, students, or staff. Visiting During COVID-19 All visitors must be vaccinated and boosted. Masks are optional. Although it is not required, please consider wearing a face covering while inside a library. Review our visitor access policy to see which libraries are open and learn how to verify your vaccination status. Contact the holding library ahead of time to find out their policy. Contact the holding library ahead of your visit To ensure the materials you need are available, contact the holding library ahead of your visit. Find library contact information. During the request process you will have to pick a day on which you plan to go to view the items. Items stored onsite can often be retrieved the same day. Any items that indicate they’re stored offsite or in the Harvard Depository take more time to retrieve. New to working with primary sources? These resources are here for you to use! Learn how to make the most of Harvard Library's rare books, manuscripts and other special collections materials. Learn More Teaching with Special Collections Class sessions at participating special collections and archives can range from surveys of faculty-selected materials to interactive explorations curated and guided by library staff. Service Teach with Special Collections Discover, engage, and collaborate with Special Collections to help students use primary sources and understand material culture. Service Teach with Houghton Library Collaborate with us to design engaging learning experiences for your students and incorporate primary source materials. Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.