Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Breadcrumb Home Locations & Hours Fung Library Collections History Today: 9am - 5pm See All Hours Highlights Supporting the study of China, Japan, Russia, and Eurasia with world-class collections, expert librarians, and digital resources. China’s Cultural Revolution 2011 Japan Disasters archive Post-WWII Soviet photographs Spaces to study Open to Harvard ID holders. We offer stacks access to external students and researchers who present an official form of ID. Full access policy Contact Knafel Building, Concourse Level 1737 Cambridge Street Cambridge, MA 02138 Directions email: truslow@fas.harvard.edu Phone number 617-496-0485 View Staff Directory Less contact information More contact information Collections Main Collections Collection Davis Center Collection Collection Davis Center Collection Resources related to the field of Russian and Eurasian studies at the Fung Library. Collection Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies Collection Collection Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies Collection A variety of Chinese-language publications not widely available in the West. Collection Japan Digital Research Center Collection Japan Digital Research Center The Japan Digital Research Center at the Fung Library develops and manages digital research collections in support of Japan-related academic and teaching programs. Special Collections Collection Women's Movement in Russia Collection Women's Movement in Russia Primary source materials documenting women's activism and daily life Collection Soviet Anti-Bureaucracy Posters Collection Soviet Anti-Bureaucracy Posters Cartoons commissioned by the Soviet state to fight corruption and inefficiency Collection Helen Tisdel De Wollant Papers Collection Helen Tisdel De Wollant Papers Tisdel De Wollant recorded her harrowing experiences in Crimea during the Civil War. Collection Women's Movement in Russia Collection Women's Movement in Russia Primary source materials documenting women's activism and daily life Collection Soviet Anti-Bureaucracy Posters Collection Soviet Anti-Bureaucracy Posters Cartoons commissioned by the Soviet state to fight corruption and inefficiency Collection Helen Tisdel De Wollant Papers Collection Helen Tisdel De Wollant Papers Tisdel De Wollant recorded her harrowing experiences in Crimea during the Civil War. Collection Soviet Information Bureau Photograph Collection Collection Soviet Information Bureau Photograph Collection These 6,000 black and white photos were intended to document the reconstruction of the Soviet Union following World War II. Collection Poliksena Shishkina-Iavein Digital Photo Collection Collection Poliksena Shishkina-Iavein Digital Photo Collection Digital images documenting the life and work of Poliksena Shishkina-Iavein. Collection 25 Years of Soviet Latvia Collection 25 Years of Soviet Latvia Images published by the government to celebrate the 25th anniversary of the restoration of Soviet power in Latvia. Collection Alexander V. Chukayeff Papers Collection Alexander V. Chukayeff Papers Russian-born U.S. Information Agency analyst on Soviet affairs. Collection Davis Center Library Poster Collection Collection Davis Center Library Poster Collection A collection of Soviet posters dating from 1919 to the 1990s. Collection Zavod Diafoto Glass Slides Collection Zavod Diafoto Glass Slides Two 1940s slide collections showing images of Soviet agriculture and bodies of water. Collection Obolensky Family Papers Collection Obolensky Family Papers Documents 150 years of a prominent family of the Russian imperial aristocracy. Website Harvard Project on the Soviet Social System Website Harvard Project on the Soviet Social System Transcripts and notes from interviews with Soviet refugees in the early Cold War era. Collection Graham-Sloan Archive Collection Graham-Sloan Archive Documentation on the transformation of the USSR Academy of Sciences into the Russian Academy of Sciences. Collection Smirnoff Vodka Archive Collection Smirnoff Vodka Archive Documents related to a 1996 court case between descendants of Smirnoff's founder and its parent company. Show LessShow More History The H.C. Fung Library was founded in 2005, bringing together the libraries of the former Coolidge Hall, including: the Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies Library, the Japan Digital Resource Center (formerly the Documentation Center on Contemporary Japan), and the Fairbank Center for Chinese Studies Library. The library collects resources related to international politics, foreign relations, foreign policy, economics, sociology, and political science of China, Japan, Russia and Eurasia. Librarians with expertise in a designated area of the world and affiliated with a particular research institute select the library's holdings. Show LessShow More Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.