Skip to Search Skip to Chat Skip to main content Alerts (1) CHAT Chat Menu Info for INFO FOR: Info for Students Faculty Alumni Visitors Donors Help with... Alerts (1) Get Help Feedback My Accounts Library Site Menu Using the Libraries Borrow Laptops and Gear Printing and Technology Services Borrow Laptops and Gear Borrowing Process and Policies Request, Delivery and Interlibrary Loan Course Reserves Instructional Services Special Collections Services Suggest a Title University Records Management Help Accessibility and Disability Services Printing and Technology Connecting from Off Campus Service Desks Trouble with a Resource Help with Summon Subject Librarians Entrepreneurial Help (LaunchPad) Spaces All Spaces Reserve a Room Study Rooms Exhibitions Faculty Commons Floor Maps Pages Cafe (Food Services) All Spaces Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center College of Law Library Martin Luther King Jr. Library (Arts and Sciences) F. Franklin Moon Library (ESF) Center for Learning and Student Success (CLASS) Syracuse Abroad Office of Undergraduate Research and Creative Engagement (SOURCE) Digital Scholarship Space (DSS) Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence Blackstone LaunchPad Research Research and Course Guides Special Collections Research Center Research Support Getting Started Advanced Research and Publishing Research and Course Guides Research Process Subject Librarians Special Collections Research Center Services and Tools Workshops Citing Sources Citation Management Tools Experts@Syracuse Writing Center Plagiarism Checker (Turnitin) Collections Special Collections Collection Areas Pan Am 103 Archives University Archives Search the Collections General Overview Books and eBooks Search Journals Search Databases Guides to Video Guide Newspaper Guide Maps Guide Government Information Guide Music Scores Guide Digital Library Digital Collections SURFACE Institutional Repository Digital Exhibits About News Blog Policies Strategic Plan Publications Blog Staff Directory Equity, Diversity, Accessibility, and Inclusion Departments News Libraries Events Exhibitions Job Opportunities Give to the Libraries SU Press Federal Depository Library Program (FDLP) Guide Search and Hours Search our catalog, articles, website and more. Search Search-related links Classic Catalog A list of print and electronic materials available in the Syracuse University Libraries. Summon Search articles, books, and other resources. A-Z Journals A list of online and print journal, newspaper and magazine titles. SURFACE Institutional Repository Syracuse University's open-access institutional repository. Today's Hours updating... All Hours Select Location for Today's Hour Bird Library Carnegie Library King + King Architecture Library Special Collections Research Center Breadcrumbs navigation Home Strategic Plan Strategic Plan Page main body content Syracuse University Libraries Strategic Plan 2018-2022 Toggle Editors Content David Seaman, Dean of Libraries and University Librarian Libraries Management Team DeAnn Buss, Director of Information Systems Terriruth Carrier, Assistant Dean for Programs, Analytics, and Facilities Management Robert Cleary, Head, Acquisitions and Cataloging Melinda Dermody, Head, Access & Resource Sharing Linda Dickerson Hartsock, Executive Director, Blackstone LaunchPad Nicolette A. Dobrowolski, Assistant Director of Collections and Access Services, Special Collections Research Center Roberta Gwilt, Associate Dean, Access and Resource Management Tom House, Facilities and Security Coordinator Dale King, Assistant Dean of Administration Services Meg Mason, University Archivist, Special Collections Research Center Lisa Moeckel, Associate Dean, Undergraduate Education and Librarian Personnel Administrator Lucy Mulroney, Senior Director, Special Collections Research Center Kelley Parker, Executive Assistant to the Dean of Libraries and University Librarian Janet Pease, Head, Collections and Research Services Lesley Pease, Head, Learning Commons Alice Pfeiffer, Director, Syracuse University Press Suzanne Preate, Digital Initiatives Librarian Tom Shanahan, University Records Manager Russell Silverstein, Head, Library Information Technology Services Ronald Thiele, Assistant Dean for Advancement Scott Warren, Associate Dean for Research and Scholarship Design and Production Lynn Wilcox, Syracuse University Press Toggle Vision, Mission Content Syracuse University Libraries aspire to be central to the intellectual life of the campus, to student success, and to the University’s culture of innovation. We advance learning, creativity, community, and research for One University. Mission As a strategic asset at the heart of the University, the Libraries provide information services, responsive collections, knowledgeable staff, and accessible spaces to all members of our community. We create safe and welcoming environments that encourage intellectual exploration, enable the creation of new knowledge, catalyze collaborations, and advance the University’s teaching, learning, and research mission. Toggle Introduction Content One University needs at its center One Library as a potent force in the growth of teaching and research excellence across the institution; as a communal hub for students and faculty to gather and work; as a repository for knowledge and cultural heritage; and as a showcase for our university’s academic and creative endeavors. Syracuse University Libraries are entrepreneurial, welcoming, collaborative, and of service to all. The Libraries curate a rich cultural and scholarly record, from 4,000 year old clay tablets to 21st century digital data sets; our buildings provide contemplative and collaborative spaces where communities of users gather to research, innovate, socialize, and study; our online collections and tools make library resources available at all hours and in all networked locations globally; and our staff combine a wide range of expertise with a strong service ethic and a welcoming demeanor. Recent improvements in the Syracuse University Libraries have had an immediate and significant return on investment: Bird Library is now the busiest student space on campus, for example, and the Carnegie Reading Room is again one of the University’s most beautiful interior spaces. The King + King Architecture Library in Slocum Hall has been thoroughly renovated, and new student success spaces have been built in Bird Library to capitalize on that iconic building’s popularity, centrality, and versatility. Ongoing renovations have been accompanied by investments in new 21st century librarian skills, including recent hires in the areas of information literacy, inclusion and accessibility, web design, digital humanities, STEM education, multimedia collections, and online publishing. The Syracuse University Libraries are an investment-grade enterprise through which the academic, social, and cultural life of the entire campus can be positively impacted and transformed. Toggle Portfolio of Activities Content The Syracuse University Libraries comprise four main library buildings on campus: Bird Library (1972), which houses the majority of our staff and many of the general circulating collections, as well as the Special Collections Research Center, University Archives, the Learning Commons, the Maps Room, media collections, Pages Café, and a variety of meeting rooms, classrooms, study and service spaces, and exhibits areas. Carnegie Library (1905), which also holds a significant portion of our circulating collections, and includes a stunning main reading room for silent study. The Belfer Audio Archive (1982), home to one of the largest historical recorded sound collections in the country (over 500,000 recordings on wax cylinders, disks, and tapes). The King + King Architecture Library (renovated 2018) in Slocum Hall -- our remaining school or college-based library. The fifth library building, The Facility (2012), is a high-tech, high-density storage facility for low-use library materials, with rapid delivery from its location near South Campus. In addition to library services, the Syracuse University Libraries portfolio also consists of the following University services: Records Management, located in Hawkins Warehouse and dedicated to the orderly management of all the University’s many business records. Syracuse University Press, located on Skytop Road and a significant publisher of scholarly books and publications of regional interest. The Syracuse University Libraries portfolio does not include the Law Library or the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Library, which report to the College of Law and the College of Arts & Sciences respectively. Toggle Implementation and Assessment Content The Syracuse University Libraries are organizing our programs, staffing, advancement, and annual assessment activities around the following areas of excellence outlined in this Strategic Plan. We have a tradition of data-driven decision-making, from the metrics and evaluations run by our Program Management Center to the close analysis of patterns of use for subscription databases, which ensures that collections budgets are being spent wisely and for maximum impact. Libraries staff are committed to extending our assessment activities to be an ongoing and integrated program at all levels, covering collections, services, spaces and staffing needs. To this end we have established annual assessment metrics for our goals and are making them a regular part of our Library Management Team conversations. This 2018 Strategic Plan grows out of a high-level Strategic Directions document published and circulated widely in spring 2016, in response to the 2015 Syracuse University Academic Strategic Plan. Themes and Goals Toggle A. The Library as Innovation Hub Content We challenge ourselves to be innovative in our collection development and service offerings, including a new Digital Library Program that accelerates the digitization of library collections, and drives new types of scholarship. We invest broadly in the workforce a 21st century library requires, with new positions in online publishing, digital humanities, and accessibility and inclusion, and we have seen recent success in opening up our spaces to innovative new services including the Blackstone LaunchPad and the Center for Learning and Student Success. As the Arch will advance health, wellness, and recreation for the campus community, the Libraries will drive academic success, research innovation, and learning excellence. Goal 1: Support a Campus-wide Ecosystem for Innovation, Invention, and Entrepreneurship Objective 1.1: Establish the Libraries as the innovation hub for campus, including new built space to support this role Strategy: Engage with the faculty exploring the entrepreneurship ecosystem as a “big idea” for Syracuse University. Strategy: Double the space of the LaunchPad in Bird Library to better support mentoring, programming, and the burgeoning communities forming there. Strategy: Fundraise to provide student innovation and entrepreneurship services through the LaunchPad; propose ongoing support from the university for the LaunchPad, given its success and its broad cross-campus support. Strategy: Explore other innovative campus-wide activities that would benefit from a new central and interdisciplinary hub, such as digital humanities. Goal 2: Create Innovative New Service Spaces Objective 2.1: Design a Faculty Research Commons space in Bird Library to foster faculty research and interdisciplinary work Strategy: Determine campus needs for this service space through survey and focus group sessions. Strategy: Design and provide cost estimate for the service space. Strategy: Engage in a fundraising campaign to support a Research Commons to support both faculty and student success as part of Invest Syracuse campaign. Objective 2.2: Design a Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence in Bird Library, to help transform teaching and learning through mentoring, collaboration, and advocacy Strategy: Partner with Academic Affairs, Information Technology Services, and others to define this service area. Strategy: Conduct a needs assessment to define faculty needs and desires in this area. Strategy: Plan space layout, staffing, and equipment needs. Objective 2.3: Design a Multimedia Center in the Belfer Audio Archive or Bird Library to provide audio and video studios, equipment loans, and expert staff Strategy: Partner with Newhouse, Visual and Performing Arts, and other schools/colleges to define this service area. Strategy: Conduct a needs assessment to define faculty needs in this area. Strategy: Plan space layout, staffing, and equipment needs. Toggle B. The Student Experience Content The Libraries are helping to redeﬁne the student experience at Syracuse University through renovated spaces in which students want to gather, study, innovate, learn, and socialize, new services, and additional expertise. The Libraries are deeply committed in our spaces and programs to student success, providing them with safe, welcoming spaces and the collections and equipment they require. Goal 3: Ensure Student Engagement and Success Objective 3.1: Increase student academic success and improve retention Strategy: Provide more tutoring space in Bird Library. Engage in a fundraising campaign with Academic Affairs for an expansion of the Center for Learning and Student Success, given the success of the operation and its broad cross-campus impact. Strategy: Create an Information Literacy program as a part of the University's pledge to "identify and develop a set of core competencies that give all students the critical skills that inform academic, personal, and professional success." Strategy: Build upon existing relationships with other areas that support student academic excellence on campus such as the Center for Learning and Student Success, the Writing Center, and Information Technology Services. Strategy: Explore other innovative campus-wide activities that would benefit from a new central and interdisciplinary hub, such as digital humanities. Objective 3.2: Expand engagement and outreach efforts to students Strategy: Integrate library expertise and collections into Syracuse University's learning management system (Blackboard), and online learning/course delivery platforms. Strategy: Employ a direct mail outreach to incoming students prior to their arrival. Strategy: Form student affinity groups, such as library student employees, or student inventors and entrepreneurs who founded companies with assistance from the Blackstone LaunchPad in Bird Library, and engage with them during and after their time on campus. Strategy: Continue extracurricular events and programming to complement the academic work happening in our spaces, such as the Human Library, poetry readings, lectures, student-generated events, art shows, etc. Objective 3.3: Enhance the library student worker experience Strategy: Create opportunities for student workers to use their knowledge and interests to create projects that enhance their professional experience. Strategy: Maximize the role of student employees in our assessments and usability testing, and help them be advocates for library services. Objective 3.4: Promote the use of Special Collections materials in the undergraduate curriculum Strategy: Hire a Chief Curator, who will further enhance and develop the curriculum geared toward undergraduates. Strategy: Partner with faculty to co-teach courses and class sessions around collections available in Special Collections. Strategy: Identify and secure sustainable funding for the Special Collections Research Center Faculty Fellows program. Goal 4: Provide Communal, Collaborative, and Contemplative Spaces Objective 4.1: Leverage the Libraries’ heavily used physical spaces to showcase the scholarly and creative output of the institution Strategy: Determine the best locations for new flat screens and exhibit cases. Strategy: Explore the feasibility of creating additional exhibition space in Bird and Carnegie libraries. Strategy: Make fuller use of the archives and special collections exhibition cases in Crouse-Hinds Hall, Lubin House, and the Goldstein Alumni and Faculty Center. Strategy: Invite the Syracuse University community to display student and faculty art and other creative expressions in our spaces, including the Bird Library’s first floor Learning Commons and the fourth floor Biblio Gallery. Objective 4.2: Leverage the Libraries’ heavily used online spaces to showcase the scholarly and creative output of the institution Strategy: Develop our institutional repository (SURFACE) to provide global open access to our scholarly, professional, and scientific output. Strategy: In partnership with the Office of Research, broaden disciplinary representation in Experts@Syracuse, our faculty profiles system. Strategy: Serve as a beta site for developing a link between Experts@Syracuse (the faculty profiles system) and SURFACE (the repository of faculty scholarship). Strategy: Create a “digital gallery” on our website to showcase scholarly and creative output. Objective 4.3: Plan and align library spaces to meet student needs Strategy: Add furniture, equipment, and accessories (such as dry erase boards) to meet needs in student study rooms and in gathering spaces throughout library spaces. Strategy: Renovate the electronic classroom in Bird Library and make it available for student use when not needed for teaching and professional development. Strategy: Investigate space needs of atypical student populations, such as commuter, returning, and University College students. Toggle C. Discovery and Research Content Advancing discovery and research is a core mission of a research library. As we have done for 150 years, we build and curate the collections that a world-class research institution needs, and provide the services that make our massive holdings convenient to use. Recent innovations in global access to Syracuse University scholarship through an institutional repository (SURFACE) are showing success, with two million downloads to date, and we are a partner in the development of various new research services. Additional faculty spaces are being planned in Bird Library, including a Research Commons and a Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence. Goal 5: Enable World-Class Research and Scholarship Objective 5.1: Increase student academic success and improve retention Strategy: Build 21st-century research collections and services suitable for an R1 institution Strategy: In partnership with the faculty, balance the print collections held on main campus and those held in The Facility to allow for optimal use of library space. Strategy: Add radio-frequency identification (RFID) chips to all on-campus library books to allow better inventory control and self-checkout. Strategy: Liaise with University leadership to ensure that library holdings are in line with the research interests of the 100 new “Invest Syracuse” faculty hires. Strategy: Accelerate bulk processing of physical collections through temporary hires and strategical outsourcing. Objective 5.2: Provide enduring access to physical and digital research collections Strategy: Enlarge our high-density storage facility to safeguard the world-class research collections in the Special Collections Research Center. Strategy: Participate in regional and national initiatives such as HathiTrust and the Eastern Academic Scholars' Trust to provide greater access to research collections. Strategy: Provide additional resources to Interlibrary Loan and on-campus delivery. Strategy: Create opportunities for student workers to use their knowledge and interests to create projects that enhance their professional experience. Strategy: Maximize the role of student employees in our assessments and usability testing, and help them be advocates for library services. Objective 5.3: Develop a Digital Library Program for the digitization of collections Strategy: Create and charge a Digital Library Program Team to address workflow, define expectations, articulate infrastructure needs, inventory assets, define submission process, and review projects. Strategy: Invest in infrastructure, technologies, and staffing to move digital projects to an integrative, sustainable Digital Library Program. Strategy: Hire a Digital Library Program Director to provide vision, leadership, and management for the program. Strategy: Hire a Digital Preservation Librarian to develop and support library-wide digital preservation plans, policies, and procedures to safeguard collections and ensure long-term access for research and discovery. Objective 5.4: Develop an open access publishing program Strategy: With the Senate Committee on the Libraries, propose an open access policy for Syracuse University. Strategy: Partner with the Syracuse University Press on issues surrounding open monograph publishing and Open Educational Resources. Strategy: Strengthen the activities of the Syracuse Unbound online publishing imprint. Objective 5.5: Invest in library staff who support the life cycle of research and discovery Strategy: Expand our commitment to professional development and training, thereby deepening the knowledge we apply to building collections and facilitating scholarship. Strategy: Provide resources to encourage innovative staff projects. Strategy: Recruit talented individuals with expertise in new and developing areas of teaching, research, and functional services. Goal 6: Develop Research Services Objective 6.1: Support grants compliance needs at the University Strategy: In partnership with the Office of Sponsored Programs, increase faculty compliance with the National Institutes of Health mandate for deposit of grant-generated scholarship into their PubMed Central archive. Strategy: In partnership with the Office of Sponsored Programs, increase faculty compliance with the National Science Foundation mandate to deposit research articles into their Public Access Repository (NSF-PAR). Objective 6.2: Support a broader array of research outputs Strategy: Explore with campus partners solutions for the preservation and access of research datasets produced at Syracuse University. Strategy: In partnership with the Office of Research, broaden disciplinary representation in Experts@Syracuse, our faculty profiles system. Strategy: Serve as a beta site for developing a link between Experts@Syracuse (the faculty profiles system) and SURFACE (the repository of faculty scholarship). Strategy: Create a “digital gallery” on our website to showcase scholarly and creative output. Goal 7: Foster a Digital Humanities Community Objective 7.1: Support digital humanities projects from students and faculty Strategy: Hire a librarian with expertise in data visualization and analytics to work with faculty and students on Digital Humanities projects. Strategy: Expand the Digital Scholarship Space in Bird Library, in partnership with Information Technology Services, to provide more services and to foster digital scholarship communities. Strategy: Define and communicate a service model to enable data visualization and text mining of library collections. Strategy: Explore with campus partners technology solutions for online access and preservation of digital projects. Strategy: Promote the digital humanities through the library’s repository, newsletter, website, and through events that showcase digital humanities issues and projects. Toggle D. One Library for One University Content Libraries are inclusive places, and our services and staff serve the whole campus and the surrounding community. We are working to ensure that our buildings, collections, and websites are as accessible as possible, and the success we have had in making our physical spaces comfortable, safe, and inviting, 24 hours a day, makes us a destination location for students and faculty on campus. This also gives us opportunities to use those busy spaces to showcase campus excellence. New programs are also underway, including a strategic focus on promoting library use for veterans and military families, and to more fully support international students and our Syracuse University Abroad programs. Goal 8: Enhance Diversity and Inclusion Objective 8.1: Be a strong contributor in a range of campus diversity and inclusion initiatives Strategy: Participate in the Syracuse University Information and Communication Technology Compliance Committee. Strategy: Remediate for accessibility the most heavily visited Syracuse University Libraries public websites. Strategy: Develop an inventory of inclusion and diversity activities in the Libraries. Strategy: Develop awareness of campus activity regarding inclusion and diversity. Objective 8.2: Provide welcoming, accessible library spaces to the diverse groups we serve Strategy: Establish a diversity and accessibility review for each new space renovation. Strategy: Upgrade the Special Collections Research Center reading room with new ADA-compliant furniture. Strategy: Evaluate the technology and furniture in the Assistive Technology Room. Strategy: Explore the need for an interfaith/meditation/ wellness space in the library. Objective 8.3: Provide access to all of our library resources to the diverse groups we serve Strategy: Develop best practices and training for reformatting operations and accessibility testing. Strategy: Ensure availability of accessible course reserves and other materials. Strategy: Identify and implement tools, resources, training, and services that support the library’s alternate reformatting service. Objective 8.4: Provide programs and training for Libraries staff to strengthen cultural competencies and awareness Strategy: Establish a Libraries Inclusion Team to provide programs and training for library staff. Strategy: Seek funding to sustain and expand the Resident Librarian Program (a national diversity initiative). Strategy: Provide onboarding and staff supervisor training on diversity and inclusion. Goal 9: Promote Library Use for Veterans and Military Families Objective 9.1: Provide resources and services to enable the veterans and military population to achieve their academic objectives Strategy: Hire a Veterans and Military Families librarian to strengthen ties and services to this community. Strategy: Develop an instructional program specific to veterans and military families by better understanding their needs. Strategy: Continue to participate in the Warrior Scholar Program. Objective 9.2: Provide creative and artistic opportunities for veterans Strategy: Establish a Syracuse University Press Creative Writing Prize for veterans. Strategy: Partner with IVMF for exhibits in their upcoming new building. Goal 10: Support International Students and Programs Objective 10.1: Better understand what international students expect from a library Strategy: Work with international students to help us understand their needs. Strategy: Expand our relationship with the Slutzker Center for International Services, and other groups who work with international students. Objective 10.2: Improve international students’ awareness of Libraries resources and services Strategy: Explore a Personal Librarian program for incoming international students (in which each student would be given the contact information for a library staff member). Strategy: Continue to be a focal point for global activities across campus such as Global Entrepreneurship Week. Strategy: Identify ways to use our collections to better engage our international students and showcase global perspectives. Objective 10.3: Provide enhanced library services to Syracuse University Abroad programs Strategy: Engage with Syracuse University Abroad leadership to understand needs and opportunities. Strategy: Design and designate a space in Bird Library for Syracuse University Abroad promotion and outreach. Strategy: Designate Syracuse University Abroad an area of focus for the Outreach Librarian. Toggle Appendix 1: Strengths, Opportunities, Aspirations, and Results (SOAR) Content Introduction SOAR is a strengths-based strategic planning framework that grew out of the Appreciative Inquiry technique for organizational development. SOAR focuses on possibilities: Strengths: recognizing what works. Opportunities: uncovering what could be improved. Aspirations: articulating a vision for the future from the perspective of stakeholders. Results: ensuring that activities are assessed and changed when necessary to achieve success. Strengths: The best of what is working. Syracuse University Libraries contribute daily to the teaching, learning, and research success of our students and faculty through a variety of services and programs. Expert staff and extensive services in-person and online Expertise and leadership in areas relevant to scholarship, including copyright, digital humanities, research reputation management, data services, open access, accessibility and inclusion, and others. Strong and active liaison and outreach services to faculty, academic support offices, and many other campus organizations and entities. Our information literacy/instruction efforts consistently reach a large number of students. Research shows that such instruction contributes to student retention and success. (Soria, K. M. & Fransen, J. & Nackerud, S. (2013). “Library Use and Undergraduate Student Outcomes: New Evidence for Students’ Retention and Academic Success.” Libraries and the Academy 13(2), 147-164.) The award-winning Syracuse University Press provides a publishing outlet for our faculty and staff and contributes to the University’s positive international reputation. Safe, welcoming, collaborative spaces Bird Library is one of the most heavily used spaces on campus, 24 hours a day. Carnegie Library is increasingly in demand as a quiet study and reading space. The Libraries are sought out as a desirable location for academic partnerships (e.g., Center for Learning and Student Success, Blackstone LaunchPad, Digital Scholarship Space). Strong Research Collections Our Special Collections Research Center offers unique, world-class research collections and the University’s own archives, used for scholarship, programming, exhibits, and instruction. Our institutional repository, SURFACE, reached two million downloads in 2017. The Facility provides state-of-the-art storage, retrieval, and preservation of our scholarly resources in proximity to campus. Our Interlibrary Loan and library resource delivery services are highly utilized and consistently praised. Activities and Partnerships We host numerous lectures, exhibitions, and other events, and our premier spaces (including the Peter Graham Scholarly Commons, the Lemke Room, and the Spector Classroom) are highly sought after. Our Learning Commons sustains a variety of partnerships and programs across campus, exemplifying the Libraries’ collaborative culture. Opportunities: Things that we can build on; stakeholder interests. The combined talents of the Libraries and the Press position us to establish a new suite of publishing and open access services for faculty and students. Additional investment in our information literacy instruction services will enable greater and deeper direct contributions to increasing student learning outcomes, potentially through a Libraries-based campus-wide program. The Libraries are well-positioned to add value to new and growing programs through our unique services and delivery methods. Such programs include those focusing on veterans and non-traditional populations, and the growing number of online courses in all disciplines. Through investment in professional development and cross-unit collaborations for our staff, we can expand and enhance our services and programs. We can capitalize and build upon our relationships with NY3Rs/Empire Library Network projects, Big 11 libraries, North East Research Libraries Consortium, Eastern Academic Scholars Trust, and other consortia to create stronger library partnerships and collaborations across the region and state. Such partnerships might result in budget efficiencies, shared print collections, the ability to repurpose space currently occupied by collections also held elsewhere, etc. We can increase our ability to impact student outcomes and help lead the development of new research areas by expanding our engagement across campus in activities that meld with the mission of the Libraries, including: Blackstone LaunchPad Digital Humanities Student Research Experiential Learning Academic Strategic Plan projects Middle States study Experts@Syracuse We can identify, understand, and promote our signature services to facilitate and favorably impact the work of students, faculty, and staff. Aspirations: Where do we want to be and how do we want to be seen in the future? The Libraries aspire to fully meet the goals articulated in the Academic Strategic Plan, specifically to “advance University libraries’ capacity to support student/faculty research and scholarship, promote information literacy, assure accessibility to a full range of information resources, and lead the way in envisioning new roles for the 21st century academic library.” (Academic Strategic Plan Trajectory to Excellence). The Libraries will be a locus for expertise in and facilitation of new forms of publishing, e.g. multi-modal and cross-disciplinary publishing. The Libraries are valued throughout the University as essential and integral contributors to the intellectual, social, and cultural fabric of the institution as a leading collaborator with and support of student and faculty creativity, research, and scholarship. The Libraries are understood to be the center of expertise in information literacy education, and this instruction is fully integrated into the University’s curriculum. Libraries spaces are state-of-the-art, flexible, and adaptable to varied and changing modes of research and learning. Results: How do we measure our success and impact on the University? We will contribute positively to student learning outcomes, tracked over the student’s time at Syracuse University. We will produce a documented impact on student achievement/ success through our information literacy initiative. We will achieve increased funding and the correction of our structural deficit through University and donor contributions. We will sustain robust budgets for collections and operating expenses. We will be the center of and active partner and participant in the research process. We will be the center of and active partner and participant in the cultural and scholarly conversation on campus. We will increase scholarly output/publishing/SURFACE submissions. We will provide expanded online content from locally digitized content. We will achieve an improved reputation as measured through standard library and academic ratings (Association of Research Libraries rankings, librarians publishing and presenting, etc.). The Libraries will catalyze greater scholarly interaction and dialog through a remixing of content from the institutional repository (SURFACE), Experts@Syracuse, and other online resources and services. Toggle Appendix 2: Strategic Facilities Reinvestment Plan Content The physical presence of the campus library is as important as ever, and Bird Library in 2018 is the busiest academic space on campus, the most heavily used computer cluster measured by annual logins, and includes a very popular dining facility, Pages Café. We are reimagining library spaces to better meet the needs of students and faculty, and collaborating with Campus Planning, Design, and Construction to address maintenance and infrastructure deficits. The following strategic investments will allow us to safeguard our collections, capitalize on the students and faculty who flock to our existing spaces, respond to the Campus Master Framework, and advance the themes and goals outlined in this Plan. Renovation and expansion Build an addition to Bird Library to accommodate our growing role in research and student life. This could be on the Waverly side of the building as envisioned in the Campus Master Framework, or in filling the area between the library and the Einhorn Family Walk (to allow for second floor access to Bird Library directly off the Walk), or a new building joining Bird Library and the Schine Student Center (which could become the front door to both buildings, joined to the Einhorn Family Walk). A major addition to Bird Library could become the central, interdisciplinary hub for innovation, invention, and entrepreneurship on campus, and could include additional space to accommodate student success services and faculty spaces. Current services such as the Center for Learning and Student Success and the Blackstone LaunchPad have demonstrated the impact that central hubs in the library can have, creating vibrant communities from across all of our schools and colleges in friendly, neutral, accessible spaces. Construct Module 2 of The Facility, which will allow us to safeguard our world-class research collections and relieve space pressure in Hawkins, Bird Library, the Belfer Audio Archive, and Module 1 of The Facility. This project is shovel ready, with construction plans completed and half the cost already secured by the Libraries. Complete the renovations to Carnegie Library—the final phase involves renovating the stacks areas. Plans to remove, store, and then return all the books are in place. Remove and replace old carpet throughout Bird Library, and take care of any needed remediation. High impact investments in existing library space We are fundraising for the following strategic investments for advancing academic excellence and the student experience. Faculty Research Commons An attractive, contemplative, and comfortable library space designed to support faculty research, writing, and interdisciplinary contact. Includes individual and small group spaces, natural light, and with some private offices to reserve. It would re-connect faculty to the physical library and enable better connections to librarians, library services, and events. A needs assessment was completed in March 2018. A 5,000 sq. ft. space has been identified on the fifth floor of Bird Library and costing is underway. The Center for Teaching and Learning Excellence A center to enhance and promote our strong teaching culture and to transform teaching through mentoring, innovative practices, collaboration, scholarship, and advocacy. Supports instructional design, teaching with technology, flipped classrooms, online course design, learning outcomes assessment, and more. Creates a community for those interested in pedagogical excellence, and a lab to try out new techniques and technologies. Those librarians who teach would both benefit from and contribute to this space. Could be co-located adjacent to the Faculty Research Commons on the fifth floor of Bird Library (3,000 sq. ft.). This is a potential partnership with Academic Affairs and Information Technology Services, both of whom have or are making investments in this area. Academic Affairs will be conducting a needs assessment, which will inform design and cost (an experimental classroom “lab” is a likely feature, as well as staff offices). Media Hub A collaborative space with studios for creating and editing multimedia projects. It would provide expert training in all aspects of multimedia and digital production, with an expanded equipment loan program (cameras, recorders, lights, microphones, etc.). Includes recording studios and a green screen room. Provides a resource for creation of online teaching videos. Builds on existing library staff strengths in media creation, and responds to specific needs from VPA, with whom we are planning joint fundraising. The iSchool and Engineering have also expressed interest in centralized media creation services and expertise. No design or cost estimate yet. We already have media technology experts on staff in Bird Library and the Belfer Audio Archive, and offer equipment loan (cameras, etc.) in Bird Library. Meditation/Interfaith/Wellness Room A new partnership with Hendricks Chapel to explore the need for a space for prayer and contemplation in the library. As a single example of need, devout Muslim students have five daily prayer times, and some of those times may well overlap with their time in the library. We already have a wellness space with a collection of books and DVDs in Bird Library, and this could incorporate and expand on that area. Toggle Appendix 3: Strategic Staff Expertise Reinvestment Plan Content Strategic Positions 2016–2018 The Syracuse University Libraries have been strategically reshaping our staff expertise through hiring into vacant positions, grant funding, and re-training. Many of these positions are new roles in the Syracuse University Libraries. Online Instruction Librarian (2016) Executive Director, Blackstone LaunchPad (2016–grant funded position) Program Manager, Blackstone LaunchPad (2016– grant funded position) Librarian for Falk College (2016) Audio Preservation Engineer, Belfer Audio Archive (2016) Digital Humanities Librarian (2016–internal shift of responsibilities) Librarian for Science and Technology [all sciences, computer science, engineering] (2017) Assistant Director for Development (2017) Open Publishing and Copyright Librarian (2017) Inclusion and Accessibility Librarian (2017) School of Information Studies Librarian (2017) Serials Acquisition Librarian (2017) Metadata Services Librarian (2017) Information Literacy Librarian (2018) Chief Curator of Exhibitions, Programs, and Education, Special Collections (2018) Open Publishing and Institutional Repository Coordinator (2018) Plastics Pioneers Curator of Plastics and Historical Artifacts (2018–endowed position) School of Education Librarian (hired spring 2018) Library Operations Manager (hiring summer 2018) In addition, we provide space and services to the Center for Learning and Student Success staff and tutors (Academic Affairs employees, third floor of Bird Library) and the Digital Scholarship Space staff (ITS employees, fourth floor of Bird Library). Strategic Staffing Needs 2018–2022 To meet the growing opportunities to support research innovation and student success, the library needs a reinvestment in its level of staffing in some key strategic areas, in addition to its current practice of re-evaluating each new vacancy: Executive Director, Blackstone LaunchPad (after grant funding expires in 2019) Program Manager, Blackstone LaunchPad (after grant funding expires in 2019) Librarian for the School of Engineering and Computer Science Librarian for the Maxwell School Digital Library Program Director Digital Preservation Librarian Media Center Director Music Cataloger for the Belfer Audio Archive Assessment Librarian Data Scientist/Text Mining Expert Specialist in Creating Accessible Collections Instructional Designer Resident Librarian (an early career diversity hire–part of a national library program) Additional staff at The Facility and in high-demand services such as Interlibrary Loan, The Learning Commons, and technology/media expertise. In addition, we will provide space and services to the Director of Teaching and Learning Excellence (recently hired by Academic Affairs). Syracuse University Libraries Strategic Directions 2016-2021 Toggle Introduction Content One University needs at its center One Library as a potent force in the growth of teaching and research excellence across the institution; as a central hub for exhibits, programs, and expertise; as a repository for knowledge and cultural heritage; and as a showcase for our University's academic and creative endeavors. Syracuse University Libraries foster an inclusive community of discovery and personal growth at the heart of the institution. Incorporating the Libraries, University Archives, Records Management, and the Syracuse University Press, we are entrepreneurial, welcoming, collaborative, and of service to all members of the SU family. The Libraries' collections, spaces, services, and staff enable learning, scholarship, and the creation of new knowledge. We curate a rich cultural and scholarly record, from ancient clay tablets to 21st-century digital data sets; our buildings provide contemplative, communal, and collaborative spaces; and our staff combine a wide range of expertise with a strong service ethic that leads to great user experiences. SU Libraries improve student outcomes, support world class faculty, enrich the lives of our students, provide vibrant campus spaces, and preserve our scholarly and cultural heritage. Editors David Seaman, Dean of Libraries and University Librarian Pamela McLaughlin, Director of Communications & External Relations Lisa Moeckel, Associate Dean, Undergraduate Education & Librarian Personnel Administrator The Strategic Conversations Working Group Lisa Moeckel, Associate Dean, Undergraduate Education & Librarian Personnel Administrator (chair) Melinda Dermody, Head, Access & Resource Sharing Jenny Doctor, Director of Belfer Audio Archive, Special Collections Research Center Ron Figueroa, Interlibrary Loan & Delivery Services Manager Marianne Hanley, Preservation Librarian Pamela McLaughlin, Director of Communications & External Relations Jessica Rice, Library Technician, Access & Resource Sharing Peter Verheyen, Research & Emerging Issues Analyst, Program Management Center Design and Production Lynn Wilcox, Syracuse University Press Toggle The Planning Process Content Strategic Conversations In alignment with the University's academic strategic planning, Dean of Libraries and University Librarian David Seaman created The Strategic Conversations Working Group in fall 2015 to discover, identify, and develop strategic themes, goals, and objectives for the Syracuse University Libraries. The Working Group engaged in a number of activities in the completion of its charge, the first being the creation of an online feedback form that was sent to all Libraries staff. This online site remained open for the duration of the group's tenure, and elicited a total of 40 responses. Members of the group also facilitated meetings with individual Libraries departments. Two members worked with each department, one as facilitator and one as recorder. Meeting summaries were made available to the entire group as a second form of feedback. These two activities were followed by an all-staff meeting to discuss ways in which the Libraries might contribute to the goals set out in the University's Academic Strategic Plan. The session was organized into breakout groups according to the plan's six focus areas and discussion groups identified specific areas of possible synergy. Meeting notes were transcribed as another form of feedback for the group's work. The Working Group then reviewed the various forms of feedback and collated the comments by frequency of mention to identify the most prevalent issues or topics. They shared this information with the Libraries Management Team at a half-day retreat, the product of which was the four areas of strategic focus outlined in this document. The Working Group also used the information gathered as the basis for the mission, vision, and values statements. Toggle Vision, Mission and Values Content Vision Statement Syracuse University Libraries aspires to be at the center of intellectual life on campus, advancing learning, creativity, research, and knowledge creation for One University. Mission Statement As a strategic asset at the heart of the University, the Libraries provide information services, responsive collections, knowledgeable staff, and safe and accessible spaces that encourage intellectual exploration. We enable the creation of new knowledge, catalyze scholarly collaboration and cultural exchange, and advance the University's teaching, learning, and research mission. Values Collaboration Community Empowerment Inclusion Innovation Openness Respectfulness Service Stewardship Toggle Themes and Goals: Student Experience and Success Content The SU Libraries: Your Competitive Edge Since 1870 Student Engagement The Libraries' physical spaces are heavily used by students, and we are fortunate to be able to engage with them every day. The SU Libraries are deeply committed in our spaces and programs to student success, and we will continue to identify student needs through surveys, focus groups, and other feedback mechanisms, and build services to meet those needs; showcase excellence in student creative work through exhibits in library spaces such as the Biblio Gallery (4th floor, Bird Library) and the Learning Commons; provide them with safe, welcoming spaces and the collections and equipment they require; and look for new opportunities to partner with and contribute to campus student initiatives. A good recent example would be the Libraries' promotion of Orange SUccess, which "provides an efficient way to quickly offer coordinated support to all students ensuring they receive the right type of assistance/intervention to keep them on track." While students spend plenty of time in the Libraries' physical and virtual library spaces, we will also use technology to extend library content and expertise to other spaces our users occupy. We will seek better integration with SU's learning management system (Blackboard), online learning platforms such as 2U, and we will implement apps that guide one through the process of locating relevant information. Library spaces have a positive impact on teaching and learning, but so, too, do our extensive hours of operation. We will continue to provide 24-hour access all semester, five days a week, to three floors of Bird Library, and extend hours across the library system during the two weeks of exams. We are unusual amongst our peers in providing 24-hour access all semester to so much of our library space. These services have real costs in staffing, security, and custodial impact, but they provide a safe academic setting that we believe contributes to student well-being and success. The SU Libraries engage with students in another manner too: we employ more than 150 students each semester from across the graduate and undergraduate populations as part-time library staff. Our student workers are critical to the daily operation of the SU Libraries, and we have untapped opportunities to engage with our student staff in new ways. We will seek to understand their perceptions of the library more fully, and to employ them as library ambassadors to their own academic departments, clubs, and organizations, as a way to make our range of services more visible to their peers. We believe that we can influence the academic success of our students, aid student retention, and provide an environment in which they feel at home. Our goal is to have every student who graduates from SU to remember their time in the library fondly, to understand their engagement with library staff as a competitive edge in their research and learning, and to be skillful users of the vast intellectual resources we put at their disposal. Experiential Learning Experiential learning is the process of learning by doing, by developing "an environment where students can actively construct their own understanding of a concept" (Salyer & Thyfault, 2003, p. 107). Experiential learning and undergraduate student research are hallmarks of a Syracuse University education, being found prominently across the schools and departments. (See examples, the Whitman School of Management; Falk College; School of Information Studies; and Syracuse Law.) The SU Libraries support practical hands-on learning experiences in a number of ways. We work closely with the School of Information Studies to engage their students in the daily work of the Libraries through graduate assistantships, internships, and student employment. We engage with the Newhouse School of Public Communications and the College of Arts and Sciences to explore the history of recorded sound through the collections of the Belfer Audio Archive. The Special Collections Research Center has a growing commitment to the use of primary materials in the undergraduate curriculum, exposing students to the "raw stuff" of history—manuscripts, rare books, photographic collections, films, and other cultural artifacts. A grant from the Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation is currently allowing us to pilot a program that engages "faculty who would like to provide students with [the] opportunity to handle, analyze, and interpret . . . primary source materials in their classes." Most recently, the 2016 opening of the Blackstone LaunchPad in Bird Library extends our experiential learning commitment to the activities of student entrepreneurship. We consider student employment to be an important form of experiential learning, too. We are committed to ensuring that, in addition to earning a paycheck, student employees in the SU Libraries learn academic and life skills that enrich their student experience and prepare them for life post-graduation, whether they join the workforce or pursue further education. Information Fluency Sophisticated and knowledgeable use of information is a key skill in academia, the workforce, and in contemporary society. Techniques for discovering information and evaluating what one finds are increasingly life skills, not simply necessities of scholarly endeavors, and a 21st-century library staff must be well-equipped to teach such information fluency. Such activity is part of a national trend in the academy: in the recent and well-regarded Ithaka S+R US Library Survey, "almost all respondents rated the library's role in helping students develop 'research, critical analysis, and information literacy skills' as very important" (Long & Schonfeld, 2014, p. 32). Building on our existing strengths in teaching information literacy skills, the SU Libraries will develop a comprehensive information fluency program as a part of the University's pledge to "identify and develop a set of core competencies that give all students the critical skills that inform academic, personal, and professional success." (The Academic Strategic Plan's Promise #2.) This program could blend in-person and online teaching, and allow us to connect with students early in their time at SU so they can develop the skills that will help them succeed while they are here and after they graduate. It will also allow us to understand more deeply the faculty expectations for student research and discovery skills, and to address specific areas of concern. Furthermore, this activity could strengthen our partnership with other areas that support student services on campus such as Academic Integrity, the Writing Center, and Information Technology Services. Collaborative, Communal, & Contemplative Spaces Ongoing space renovations in Bird and Carnegie Libraries have revitalized the role of the library as a campus space for students. These changes are a direct result of an additional and very successful capital investment—the building of The Facility. This high-density shelving and digitization building allows us to store books, journals, maps, manuscripts, microfilms, tapes, and film from across our collections in a nearby, secure, climate-controlled setting, reducing overcrowding in our on-campus spaces and allowing for new and innovative repurposing of space. We are committed to providing the variety of spaces that faculty and students need to thrive. These capital investments in the SU Libraries have had an immediate return on investment. Bird Library's first floor Learning Commons, café, and lower level spaces are well-suited for communal and collaborative endeavors, and are among the most heavily-used student areas on campus. The grand reading room in Carnegie Library, one of the most beautiful rooms on campus, is a much used quiet, contemplative space. We also are committed to expanding quiet study opportunities throughout the seven floors of Bird Library. Users who venture up through the building already discover plentiful quiet zones, including 6th floor spaces such as the classically wood-paneled William Safire Room and the modern Plastics Pioneers Reading Room. Toggle One Library Content The SU Libraries: Your Home Away from Home Inclusion & Diversity We demonstrate a commitment to inclusion and diversity in our staffing, collections, spaces, programming, and services. Undergraduate and graduate students use the SU Libraries heavily, and in order to build relationships with them we must understand the needs of our multiple populations, including veterans, first-generation students, students with disabilities, international students, students from traditionally underrepresented groups, and those from a range of socio-economic backgrounds. Faculty and staff are heavy users too, and we are ambitious to meet their diverse physical, learning, and research needs, and to provide them a welcoming, convenient, information-seeking experience online and on site. We need continually to re-assess the physical and online spaces and services to anticipate the needs of all the University’s communities. To the greatest extent possible, we will provide a diversity of spaces for our users and will seek better ways to provide online students with the virtual spaces and services they need. Convenient access to our library resources—online or print—is a priority. We will tailor services to provide ADA accessibility, as well as accessibility to the diverse groups we serve. Collaborations & Interdisciplinary Partnerships We aspire to have every faculty member and student know who their liaison librarian is, no matter what department, school, or center they identify with. Subject librarians and functional specialists are a vital connection to our communities of practice, and we want to strengthen these partnerships whenever possible. The library staff is inherently collaborative and interdisciplinary, and we want to expand our connections across campus around significant issues to which we can bring expertise and resources, such as information literacy, media asset management, open access issues, data curation, entrepreneurship, and reputation management. In addition to the schools and colleges, the SU Libraries have evolving partnerships with Information Technology Services, the Office of Research, the Graduate School, the Art Galleries, the Writing Center, tutoring services, and others; and with new cross-disciplinary groups such as the digital humanities. Showcasing Excellence The Libraries' online and on-campus spaces are varied, central, and frequently visited by faculty, students, staff, parents, alumni, and the general public. With a gate count of 1.1 million visitors (FY15) in our physical spaces, and still more to library websites and online resources, we are well-positioned to showcase the scholarly and creative output of the institution. We will invest in a range of display spaces—cabinets, flat screens, and exhibit and gallery areas—and encourage their use. We will develop online repositories such as SURFACE (the Syracuse University Research Facility and Collaborative Environment), which provides open access to a diverse array of scholarly, professional, scientific, and creative output produced at Syracuse University, and we will work with the Office of Research, the University Press, and Public Affairs to promote the work we do to the world. Toggle Discovery and Research Content "There are so many books that we do not even have time to read the titles." (Anton Francesco Doni, 1550. Quoted in Garber, M. (2012, July 29). Enabling Research & Scholarship The Libraries manage collections and develop expert systems to allow the creation of new knowledge and creative expression. The support of research and scholarship is a core value of the Libraries and manifests itself through our collections and services. We seek to bolster student and faculty achievement through technology, resources, and the knowledgeable staff who make the discovery of library content as convenient, rapid, and accurate as possible. Syracuse University’s scholars and students engage broadly with our analog and digital collections. Depending on discipline, they may work predominantly with online journals, books, reference works, and datasets from our vast online holdings, dipping into print, archival, or microform collections only occasionally. Or their work may be in media, languages, or disciplines that rely on a rich hybrid of print and electronic holdings, using vinyl recordings and wax cylinders from the 500,000 items in the Belfer Audio Archive that are not yet available in digital formats; working with scholarship from earlier decades and centuries that exists in print only; or dealing with materials— maps, artwork, three-dimensional items, architectural plans—that may well be easier to use in their physical format. While we have generally made the transition from print journals to online articles, the same is not yet true for the book-length studies that are central to humanistic study. Well-designed physical books, such as those produced by Syracuse University Press, are still often preferred as a reading experience over their e-book counterparts, in part due to current limitations in the e-book reading technologies and digital rights management processes. To enable research and scholarship we will continue to invest in the development and maintenance of the millions of items in our general, circulating, collections. These are well used by Syracuse University faculty and students, with 100,000 items being checked out every year. In addition, 35,000 items per year are delivered to scholars all over the country (and sometimes internationally) as part of our highly-efficient interlibrary loan operation. Recent additions of radio-frequency identification (RFID) chips to a million books in Carnegie and Bird will allow us to exert much better inventory control over these items, improving catalog records and shelf locations, and this investment already allows 24-hour self-checkout of materials. Preservation Services staff treat a steady stream of books in need of repair, and the high-density, climate-controlled shelves of The Facility keeps those collections not on campus in excellent condition, returning them to users on request (often the same day). The Special Collections Research Center and the University Archives are full of items of local, national, and global significance, many of which are unique or very rare. They are increasingly well-used as we invest in the processing, description, and digitization of these items, and work with faculty to make them part of the undergraduate experience, driving new forms of student research and discovery. As the University seeks "to elevate signature areas of inquiry where our strengths coincide with areas of external opportunity" (Academic Strategic Plan, Discovery section) we will build general and special collections that specifically support these areas of developing strength, and be alert for new research directions that need library materials to be successful. As we invest in collections that support research and discovery, so will we invest in the talent and expertise of our Libraries staff. We will renew and expand our commitment to professional development and training, thereby deepening the knowledge we apply to building collections and facilitating scholarship. Further, we will broaden the scope of our expertise by recruiting talented individuals with expertise in new and developing areas of teaching and research. Research Information Management The University's Academic Strategic Plan seeks to "celebrate and reward those who excel in research and creative endeavors" (Discovery section). In addition to building relevant research collections, the SU Libraries will engage in the research life of the university in other innovative ways. We will support faculty in their data curation needs, including the creation of the data management plans that are now mandatory in many federal grants applications; we will help the institution understand what scholarship is published each year from Syracuse University, and help publicize it as a way to enhance our growing research reputation; we will engage with the digital humanities in projects that seek new ways of accessing, analyzing, and interpreting content; and we will provide long-term digital preservation and access to Syracuse University scholarly output in an institutional repository. Our focus on issues surrounding information resources will allow us to exert thought leadership around such topics as open access publishing, scholarly reputation management, data visualization, and other emerging issues. Library as Place The physical presence of the campus library is as important as ever. We will continue to spend considerable energy to ensure that library spaces meet patrons' needs and provide good workspaces for staff, and safe, attractive locations for users. We will continue to reimagine library spaces to better meet the needs of students and faculty; work collaboratively to address maintenance and infrastructure deficits; and develop programming from lectures and exhibitions, to parent tours, and student wellness breaks, all of which underscore the role of the library as an engaging and inclusive community space. Technology investments in the student areas and instructional spaces of our library buildings have been successful; now is the time to think more carefully about technology- enabled faculty spaces, too. Library space is not just physical, but virtual, as well, and we commit to providing mobile-friendly, accessible online sites that make navigating our collections and service offerings as convenient and straightforward as possible. Analysis of online use will drive our virtual space designs, and provide data for ongoing improvements that are responsive to need. Toggle Entrepreneurship, Leadership and Innovation Content Your Library: The Original Idea Incubator Student Entrepreneurship From nationally recognized academic programs to undergraduate clubs, student entrepreneurship is a hallmark feature of Syracuse University. The SU Libraries are engaging with this work through collections and research expertise being developed by our librarians, and through the provision of innovative spaces and programming. The Blackstone Launch- Pad in Bird Library is a prime example, through which we will provide experiential, hands-on, specialized labs and services for all students, irrespective of which program or school they attend. The LaunchPad is an accelerator for the Libraries too, encouraging us to further develop our business and entrepreneurial acumen. Digital Library Program The SU Libraries support a range of digitization and digital publishing endeavors. We will pull these together in a more programmatic manner, and use this new focus to drive investment in the staffing and technology infrastructure we need to increase the rate of digital production and delivery, and engage in long-term digital curation of our scholarly and cultural assets. Existing expertise already allows us to play a leading role on campus in the preservation and digitization of 19th and 20th century media-based material. A Digital Library Program will allow us to provide leadership in digital scholarship, including preservation, data management services, and publication, and become the place where digital publishing issues such as rights, access, and media preservation are addressed. Business Analytics and Assessment The SU Libraries have a tradition of data-driven decision- making, from the rich array of metrics and evaluations run by our Program Management Center to the close analysis of patterns of use for subscription databases, which ensures that collections budgets are being spent wisely and for maximum impact. As we build an assessment culture across the Libraries, we aim to use the measures to "develop or sharpen [our] abilities to interpret complex data and guide [the library] in making more informed and actionable decisions." (Whitman School of Management Master of Science in Business Analytics.) SU Libraries is committed to extending our assessment activities to be an ongoing and integrated assessment program at all levels, and to seek out better ways to know what our patrons want. This will include ongoing assessment of the collections that we have, how they are used, and why we collect what we do, as well as ongoing evaluation of our multiple services and spaces. Collaboration and Outreach The SU Libraries is benefiting from connections and partnerships with other libraries to improve efficiencies in such services as interlibrary loan and collaborative collection development. We will continue to broaden our collaboration with universities and consortia that allow us to offer new services and content. For example, as a contributor to the HathiTrust Digital Library, we benefit in a number of ways: we can discover HathiTrust's 13 million volumes in our Summon Discovery Service, and we can gain access to plain-text versions of the books for users with print disabilities. Where appropriate and useful, our collections will also be discoverable through online aggregations such as the Digital Public Library of America, or the National Jukebox at the Library of Congress, and we will engage with emerging shared print networks and national digital preservation services. We will continue to seek out collaborations across the University, from student groups to faculty interdisciplinary centers to Student Affairs and be an effective business partner with campus services such as ITS, HR, Facilities Management, Purchasing, and Advancement. The Libraries are ambitious to communicate the range of services and collections we offer to the diverse communities we serve, and we will continue to use print and electronic publications, news releases, posters and digital signage, social media and websites, and the interpersonal relationships we develop with our users, to tell the story of the library, celebrate our successes, honor our supporters, and promote the scholarly work and well-being of the Syracuse University community. Toggle References Content Digital Public Library of America. About section. Retrieved March 31, 2016, from https://dp.la/info/ Falk College (2016). Department of sports management: Experiential learning. Retrieved March 31, 2016, from https://falk.syr.edu/sport-management/Experiential-Learning/; Garber, M. (2012, July 29). Percy Bysshe Shelley frets about information overload . . . in 1821. The Atlantic. Retrieved 3 April 2016 from https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2012/07/percy-bysshe-shelley-frets-about-information-overload-in-1821/260454/ HathiTrust. About section. Retrieved March 31, 2016, from https://www.hathitrust.org/about Long, M.P., & Schonfeld, R.C. (2014). Ithaka S+R US Library Survey 2013. New York: Ithaka. Retrieved April 15, 2016 from https://www.sr.ithaka.org/publications/ithaka-sr-us-library-survey-2013/ McLaughlin, P. (2015, November). Delmas Foundation awards Syracuse University Libraries grant for faculty fellows program. Retrieved April 15, 2016 National Jukebox. About section. Retrieved March 31, 2016, from https://www.loc.gov/jukebox/about SURFACE. About section. Retrieved March 31, 2016, from https://surface.syr.edu/about.html Salyer, B., & Thyfault, A. (2003). Developing situational learning events: A practical merger of real-life events with content instruction. Washington, D.C.: U.S. Government Printing Office. Retrieved April 15, 2016 from https://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED481403 Syracuse University (June 2015). Draft academic strategic plan: Trajectory to excellence. Retrieved March 31, 2016, from https://asp.syr.edu/. Syracuse University (2016). Orange Success. Retrieved March 31, 2016, from https://answers.syr.edu/display/success/Orange+SUccess+Home School of Information Studies (2016). Experiential learning. Retrieved March 31, 2016, from https://ischool.syr.edu/academics/experiential-learning/ Syracuse Law (2016). Experiential curriculum. Retrieved March 31, 2016, from https://law.syr.edu/academics/experiential-curriculum/ Syracuse University Libraries Annual Report 2014– 2015. Retrieved March 31, 2016 Whitman School of Management (2016). Experiential courses. Retrieved March 31, 2016, from https://whitman.syr.edu/programs-and-academics/programs/whitman-mba-experience/whitman-fulltime-mba-experience/experiential-learning/experiential-courses.aspx Whitman School of Management (2016). Master of Science in business analytics. Retrieved March 31, 2016, from https://onlinebusiness.syr.edu/business-analytics/ Zaytsev, A. (2015). "HathiTrust and a mission for accessibility." Journal of Electronic Publishing, 18/3. Retrieved March 31, 2016, from https://dx.doi.org/10.3998/3336451.0018.304 Syracuse University Libraries Contact and Site Information Syracuse University Libraries 222 Waverly Ave., Syracuse, New York 13244 315.443.2093 315.443.2060 libref@syr.edu Footer Navigation Social Media Links facebook twitter instagram linkedin Policies and More Policies Privacy Accessibility Inclusion Accreditation Sitemap © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her.