CUL - Main Content CUL - Banner CUL - NAV Wednesday June 1st, 2022 Navigation Services & Tools For Students For Faculty For Alumni For Visitors FAQ Go to All Services & Tools Libraries Avery Architectural & Fine Arts Library Burke Library at Union Theological Seminary Business & Economics Library Business Library at Manhattanville Butler Library C.V. Starr East Asian Library Gabe M. Wiener Music & Arts Library Health Sciences Library Journalism Library Law Library Lehman Social Sciences Library Mathematics Library Milstein Undergraduate Library Rare Book & Manuscript Library Science & Engineering Library Social Work Library Go to All Libraries & Affiliates Using the Libraries Using the Libraries During COVID-19 Hours Access Privileges Borrow, Request, Renew Print, Scan, Digitize Workshops and Training Course Reserves Accessibility Collections CLIO: Columbia Libraries Catalog About Our Collections Digital Collections & Exhibitions Archival Collections Oral History Collections Academic Commons E-Resources Recommend a Title for Purchase Subject Specialists About About the Libraries Staff News Strategic Directions Student Library Advisory Committee RBML's Exhibitions & Programs Exhibitions Our exhibition galleries are open to Columbia affiliates and external visitors with confirmed reading room appointments. Our Online Exhibitions are always available to all. The Year of Water Revisited: through July 23, 2022 in the Chang Octagon. This exhibit features artists books relating to the earth's most precious resource: water. Items range from New York City Rainfall 1987 by Sandy Gellis, a portfolio of prints which document a year’s rainfall, to this year’s My Mighty Journey, which traces 12,000 years of a waterfall’s existence, with illustrations created with natural materials found by the river and wood engraving by Gaylord Schanilec. Social Climates: Power and the Environment in the Archives: through September 30, 2022 in Kempner Gallery. This exhibit draws on a wide array of RBML collections and materials to explore the interconnections between culture, history, politics, and the natural world. From ancient papyrus documents to the records of an 18th century cotton manufacturer, from New Deal photography to contemporary illustrations by renowned artist Molly Crabapple, from early modern treatises on witchcraft to sociological surveys documenting the rise of suburbia, Social Climates offers a critical reexamination of the RBML's archival holdings in order to reveal the connections and disjunctures that have shaped human social relationships to the natural world. Public Programs The RBML offers a robust and diverse series of public programs, including lectures, panel discussions, performances and conferences, that highlight collections and particular fields of inquiry. Guests may include living creators (artists, writers, etc.), collectors, and scholars who make use of our collections. The Book History Colloquium aims to provide a broad outlet for the scholarly discussion of book history, print culture, the book arts, and bibliographical research, and (ideally) the promotion of research and publication in these fields. Please note that while our events are free and open to the public they do require registration in advance. Upcoming Virtual Events Loading events... Online Exhibitions In Service to the New Nation: The Life & Legacy of John Jay As part of the broader events celebrating the near completion of the seven volumes of The Selected Papers of John Jay publication project based at Columbia University, this exhibit aims to shed light on the different aspects of Jay's personal, familial, and public life and discuss his many civic accomplishments in shaping America's governance, diplomacy, and judiciary. In Service to the New Nation: The Life & Legacy of John Jay draws on the correspondence, public papers, printed items, portraits, and drawings located in the various collections and libraries at Columbia University. The items presented include such varied materials as the transcribed Laws of King’s College, Jay's draft of The Federalist 5, period sheet music of Governor Jay's March, and a chart of New York City's harbor defences. Unless otherwise noted, the materials presented herein are taken from the John Jay Papers, 1668-1862 Collection and Columbia's Rare Book & Manuscript Library. Arthur Mitchell: Harlem’s Ballet Trailblazer This exhibition celebrates the extraordinary career and legacy of the New York City Ballet’s first African-American star and the founder and longtime director of the Dance Theatre of Harlem. This website, created in tandem with the exhibition Arthur Mitchell: Harlem’s Ballet Trailblazer, on display at the Wallach Art Gallery from January 12 to March 11, 2018, highlights material from the Arthur Mitchell Collection, Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Columbia University. It also includes commissioned essays, timelines, links to publicly available sources, and other resources in addition to material from the physical exhibition. Please share this website with friends, students, and colleagues, using it to explore the rich histories behind Arthur Mitchell’s career and the Dance Theatre of Harlem, which celebrates its fiftieth anniversary in 2019, and encourage new scholarship about African Americans and ballet. Complete list of RBML Online Exhibitions. Sidebar Rare Book & Manuscript Library Today's Hours: Full Schedule » Contact 6th Floor East Butler Library 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Phone: (212) 854-5590 E-mail: rbml@library.columbia.edu Map: Libraries Map » Create or Access Your Special Collections Research Account Rare Book & Manuscript Library About RBML Find Materials Plan Your Visit Orders & Services Exhibitions & Programs Collection Areas Digital Collections What We Collect Staff News Sign up to receive updates on RBML Events CUL - Footer General Contact 535 West 114th St. New York, NY 10027 Telephone (212) 854-7309 Fax (212) 854-9099 Copyright | Policies | Suggestions & Feedback | Contact Us | About Us Etc.