Skip to main content Help with... back All Services, Tools & Catalogs Alumni Access Borrowing Remote Research Scan & Deliver Collections back Explore All Collections Search Digital Collections How to Use Special Collections & Archives What's on Exhibit Events & News back Events News Visit & About back Locations & Hours Visitor Access Find a Space Confronting Anti-Black Racism Grants & Fellowships Staff Directory About Harvard Library Sign in to HOLLIS MyHOLLIS Ask a Librarian, contact us with your question Ask back Ask a Librarian Ask a librarian Go More help options Find my subject liaison Request a research appointment Let's chat! Library locations and hours Hours back Wednesday, Jun 1, 2022 Widener Library Today 9am - 5pm Lamont Library Today 9am - 5pm Cabot Science Library Today 8am - 8pm Reunion Headquarters see all locations Hours for all 25+ locations Search back Search website or HOLLIS catalog Search in website (library.harvard) in library catalog & articles (HOLLIS) Search website or HOLLIS catalog Service Library Liaisons Make an appointment with a library liaison to get the help you need to get your work done. Looking for personalized guidance for your research? Curious about resources in your area of study? Library liaisons can help you make the most of your research at Harvard Library. Find your Liaison We're here to help! Answer a few quick questions, and we'll connect you with the library liaison who can help you with class assignments, research, and finding exactly what you need at Harvard Library. What can we do for you? Whether you’re working on a homework assignment, deep in a multi-year project, or just getting to know the libraries, we're here for you. Let us help you navigate Harvard Library (both physically and virtually) and connect you with the resources you need. Attend our workshops on topics like working with HOLLIS, using citation tools, and visualizing data. Talk with us about providing tailored library instruction for your class. Sign up for a research consultation for individualized support of your research project. Collaborate with us on creating online materials to support your instruction and research projects. Library Liaisons by Subject Area Liaisons are experts in a variety of subjects. Use the list below to find the right one for you. (If you're at a professional school, please contact your library directly.) African and African American Studies Sue Gilroy American Studies Fred Burchsted Anthropology Susan Gilman Art, Film, and Visual Studies Jessica Evans Brady Astronomy Daina Bouquin Astrophysics Daina Bouquin Biology Human Evolutionary Biology Mary Sears and Susan Gilman Integrative Biology Mary Sears Molecular and Cellular Biology Mary Sears Neurobiology Mary Sears Organismic and Evolutionary Biology Mary Sears and Gretchen Wade Stem Cell and Regenerative Biology Mary Sears Systems, Synthetic, and Quantitative Biology Mary Sears Celtic Languages and Literatures Ramona Crawford Chemistry and Chemical Biology Tina Helt Classics Steve Kuehler Comparative Literature Odile Harter Computer Science Robyn Rosenberg Earth and Planetary Sciences Michael Leach East Asian Studies Reed Lowrie Economics Diane Sredl Engineering and Applied Sciences Robyn Rosenberg English Odile Harter Environmental Science and Public Policy George Clark Folklore and Mythology Ramona Crawford Germanic Languages and Literatures Beate Gersch Government Kathleen Sheehan History Fred Burchsted History and Literature Steve Kuehler History of Art and Architecture Shalimar Fojas White History of Science Fred Burchsted Inner Asian and Altaic Studies Mary Frances Angelini Linguistics Emily Coolidge Toker and Jess Cohen-Tanugi Mathematics Michael Leach Middle Eastern Studies Emily Coolidge Toker and Sarah DeMott Music Liz Berndt-Morris Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations Emily Coolidge Toker and Sarah DeMott Physics Marina Werbeloff Political Science Kathleen Sheehan Psychology Kathleen Sheehan Regional Studies—East Asia Reed Lowrie Regional Studies—Russia, Eastern Europe, and Central Asia Svetlana Rukhelman Religion Reed Lowrie Romance Languages and Literatures (French and Italian) Odile Harter Romance Languages and Literatures (Spanish and Portuguese) Anna Assogba Slavic Languages and Literatures Anna Rakityanskaya Social Studies Sue Gilroy Sociology Kathleen Sheehan South Asian Studies Ramona Crawford Statistics Michael Leach Theater, Dance, and Media Steve Kuehler Women, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Sue Gilroy Library Liaisons by Program Harvard College Writing Program Sue Gilroy General Education Beate Gersch Freshman Seminars Sarah DeMott Social Sciences: Please contact Ask a Librarian with questions. Arts and Humanities: Jessica Evans Brady Sciences: Robyn Rosenberg First Year Student Librarians Beate Gersch Extension School Mary Frances Angelini and Jonathan Paulo Show LessShow More Related Services & Tools Service Librarians for First-Year Students First-year students are assigned a librarian to help you make the most of all the library has to offer during your first undergraduate year. Service Research Consultations Get personalized guidance from one of our library specialists online or in-person—no question is too small. Service Unabridged A Master Class in Library Research for GSAS Students, offered every January See All Services & Tools Stay in the know Sign up Giving to the Library Office of the Provost HOLLIS HOLLIS Images Harvard Digital Collections HOLLIS for Archival Discovery Databases Newsletters Staff Portal Report a Problem Accessibility Privacy Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License Except where otherwise noted, this work is subject to a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which allows anyone to share and adapt our material as long as proper attribution is given. For details and exceptions, see the Harvard Library Copyright Policy ©2022 Presidents and Fellows of Harvard College.