Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions Stokes Library Stokes Library Skip to Main Content Section Menu Home Research Consultations Course Reserves For Faculty About Stokes Library Reserve E-classroom Group Study Rooms Stokes Viz Hub Staff FAQs Today's Hours 8:30am - 8:00pm For summer, holidays or recess hours, please consult the full schedule. Contact Us Wallace Hall, Lower Level piaprlib@princeton.edu Phone: (609) 258-5455 Public Policy Guide | Databases | Data & Statistics | Data Analysis Help | Virtual Reality Stokes Library Access During COVID Stokes Library is open for use by Princeton University students, faculty, and staff with an activated PUID. For everyone's health and safety, we ask all patrons to present their PUID upon entering the Library. The Library remains closed to the public and other users. Visitor requests for scholarly research are evaluated on a case-by-case basis. To learn more about Princeton University Library’s visitor policy please visit this page. Research consultations with librarians are available to students, faculty and staff in-person, or by e-mail, phone or Zoom. Book Pick-Up Service is available. Faculty, students, and staff with active PUIDs may request books online and pick them up at on-campus Library locations. PU faculty, students, and staff may request in-house digitization of articles or chapters in print book collections.  Wearing face coverings is optional, although encouraged, for all library visitors. For questions about visiting Stokes, please send a message to piaprlib@princeton.edu. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Stokes Library, located on the lower level of Wallace Hall, is the primary point-of-contact for Library Services for the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs Reserves and the Office of Population Research (OPR). The Library houses the Princeton School of Public and International Affairs Reserves, the Ansley J. Coale Population Research Collection, and the Stokes Viz Hub, The Ansley J. Coale Population Research Collection The Ansley J. Coale Population Research Collection, serving the Office of Population Research, houses an extensive collection of demographic materials. The collection contains more than 40,000 bound volumes, as well as over 15,000 reprints, technical reports, manuscripts, and working and discussion papers. Sixty percent of the collection consists of worldwide statistical material (censuses and vital statistics). The collection also contains international censuses through 2009 on over 4,000 reels of microfilm. Subjects collected include: formal demography (fertility, mortality and immigration), population policy, family planning, epidemiology, child and public health, and health statistics. The Princeton School of Public and International Affairs Reserve Collection The Princeton School of Public and International Affairs is primarily served by the Stokes Public and International Affairs & Population Research library, which is part of the University's extensive library system and is located in the lower level of Wallace Hall. It provides reserve materials in support of both graduate and undergraduate studies, and houses a core collection of books, journals, and research materials that supplements the Social Sciences collections at Firestone. Directions The Donald E. Stokes Library is located on the lower level of Wallace Hall. From OFF Campus: From Nassau Street (Route 27)- Turn onto Washington Road (Route 571 East). At second light, turn left onto Prospect Street. Wallace Hall is behind the third building on left (stone facade). Metered street parking is available. From Route 1 South - Turn right onto Washington Road (Route 571 West). At third light, turn right onto Prospect Street. Wallace Hall is behind the third building on left (stone facade). Metered street parking is available. Services Article Express Interlibrary Loan Borrow Direct Renew Material Stokes Viz Hub Workshops Key Links Connect from Off-Campus NIH Public Access Policy Book Express (SPIA Faculty Only) - Temporarily Suspended Amenities Computers Electronic Classroom Group Study Room Laptops Microfilm/fiche Reader Printers (B&W) Scanner Study Carrels Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top