Skip to search box Skip to main content Princeton University Library All Search Box * Search Main Menu Research Tools+ Data and Statistics Databases Finding Aids Newspapers Catalog Worldcat More Libraries and Collections+ Collections Libraries Recommend a Purchase Collections and Collecting More Library Services+ 2021-22 Resources Book Pick-Up Off-Campus Access In-House Digitization ArticleExpress Your Accounts More About the Library+ Mission, Vision, North Star Language Statement Harmful Content Statement Events and Workshops Exhibitions Visitors Staff Directory Policies and Guidelines Zoom Backgrounds Ask Us! Chat and more+ Ask a Librarian! Email Us Find Your Subject Librarian Research Consultations Find Your Personal Librarian Library Phone Numbers Research Guides Frequently Asked Questions “Princeton 275” celebrates Princeton’s 275 years as found within the University Archives A new exhibition is now open at Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library to help commemorate the 275th anniversary of Princeton University’s founding. Princeton University began as neither a university, nor part of the town of Princeton. Its first charter, dated October 22, 1746, established it as “The College of New Jersey” in Elizabeth. It moved to Newark in 1747, and finally to its current home in 1756. Yet there have been more than these three “Princetons,” as each generation of Princetonians has been a part of the institution’s story of continual expansion and change. This exhibition’s selections provide a sort of “appetizer” of the story of Princeton’s 275 years found within the University Archives. Such a small group of items can’t show every facet of how Princeton came to be what it is today. Instead, these materials reflect the perspective that although there have been some moments of significant disruption, looking back, one sees a continuous process of transformation. Peter Putnam ’42 *50 and his guide dog Wick at Commencement, 1950. Historical Photograph Collection Graduate Record of Nazik Sadek Malaika, 1950. Graduate Alumni Records LGBT Student Services Calendar, 2005. Princeton University Printed Materials Collection It may be the case that the only thing that never changes at Princeton is that Princeton is always changing–expanding to include more people and more ideas. Looking at these sometimes unfamiliar faces and forgotten moments may help one to view Princeton’s story in a fresh way. The exhibition is curated by April C. Armstrong *14, Rosalba Varallo Recchia, and Iliyah Coles ’22; exhibition graphic design by Barbara Valenza; exhibition project management by Stephanie Wiener. The exhibition is currently open to University students, faculty, and staff during regular Mudd Library hours, Monday through Friday, 9 a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Read about some of the stories behind the items in the exhibition: Mudd Princeton 275 Blog Learn more about current and upcoming PUL exhibitions. Explore PUL’s digital exhibitions. Read more about past exhibitions: Inside the Milberg Gallery news series Published May 6, 2022 Media contact: Barbara Valenza, Director of Library Communications Newsletter Subscribe to Princeton University Library’s e-newsletter for the latest updates on teaching and research support, collections, resources, and services. News Categories Acquisition Highlights (29) Announcements (50) Annual updates from the University Librarian (2) Anti-Racism & Social Justice (40) Buildings & Facilities (3) Collections (57) Databases (59) Digital Library (4) Events & Workshops (138) Exhibitions (72) Featured E-Resource (16) Featured on Social Media (10) General news (190) Grants (6) Instruction (1) ld4p (42) Library Staff Events (1) Meet Our Specialists (33) Newspapers and Other Leisure (5) Recent Acquisitions (27) Resources (44) Series: Inside PUL (2) Series: Inside the Chronicle (5) Series: Inside the Hellenic Collections (6) Series: Inside the Milberg Gallery (32) Series: Spotlights (12) Series: Teaching with Collections (11) Services (3) Special Collections (68) Spotlight Remote (6) Talks (2) Library Blogs Cotsen Children's Library East Asian Library Environmental Sciences Information Graphic Arts Collections Mendel Music Library Mudd Manuscript Library Notabilia RBSC Manuscripts Division News RBSC News and Events Research Tools Catalog Data and Statistics Databases E-journals Research Guides Special Collections Library Services Article Express Borrow Direct Circulation Course Reserves Digital Collections Interlibrary Loan (ILL) Library Access Study Spaces and Lockers Trace a Book Your Accounts About the Library Collections and Collecting Events and Workshops Library Locations For Alumni For Library Staff Staff Directory Friends of the Library Using the Library Off-Campus Princeton University Library One Washington Road Princeton, NJ 08544-2098 USA (609) 258-1470 Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University Top