Skip to main content Contact Us My Accounts Give to UH Libraries University of Houston Libraries Search Borrow Research & Learning Spaces & Technology About Home > About About The University of Houston Libraries serves University of Houston students, faculty, staff and the scholarly community. The system consists of MD Anderson Library, the William R. Jenkins Architecture, Design, & Art Library, the Health Sciences Library, and the Music Library. Combined, these four locations provide access to nearly 400 desktop computers and over 100 laptops. With addition of the O’Quinn Law Library, they provide access to more than 3.2 million physical and digital volumes, 159,714 physical and digital journals and other serial subscriptions, 108,834 e-journal titles, 724,075 e-books, and 419 databases. Our mission University of Houston Libraries advances student success, knowledge creation and preservation, and globally competitive research. Our vision A community nurtured by curiosity and creativity that drives lifelong learning and scholarship. Quick Links Collections Budget Funding UH Libraries Strategic Plan Plan for Advancing Diversity & Inclusion 2016-2017 Impact Report FY2018 Annual Report General Information Libraries & Collections Hours Maps & Directions Floor Maps Policies & Guides Policies Open Access Call Numbers & Location Guide Web Content Style Guide Our Organization Memberships and Consortia Promotion and Tenure Recognition Program Organizational Charts Staff Directory Employment Connect with Us UH Libraries News Newsletter Contact Us Poetry & Prose Give to UH Libraries 4333 University Drive Houston, TX 77204-2000 (713) 743-1050 Privacy Policy Hours Employment Directory Give Us Feedback Contact Us Give to UH Libraries Libraries & Collections Maps & Directions UH Libraries News Site Search Site Map Search Borrow Research & Learning Spaces & Technology About UH Home facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Please ensure Javascript is enabled for purposes of website accessibility