Skip to page navigation menu Skip entire header Brown.edu News — Events — Exhibits — For You Undergraduate Students Graduate & Medical Students Faculty Medical & Clinical Faculty Alumni Visiting Scholars Special Collections Researchers Library Staff University Library Off-Campus Access My Library Account Search ⚲ ☰ × BruKnow Library Website Search → × About People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Search Off-Campus Access My Library Account Borrow, Request, & Renew Articles, Journals, & Databases Research Help Hours & Locations Events Ask a Question Now Skip 28 subheader links Home About ▾ People Libraries and Hours Strategic Plan Born Digital Scholarly Publishing Institute Stronger Together Leadership Program Feedback Form: Do you feel welcome? Library A to Z Using the Library ▾ COVID-19 Services and Operations Reserve a Seat in the Special Collections Reading Room Borrow, Request, Renew Articles, Journals, and Databases Course Reserves Special Collections and Archives Health and Biomedical Library Services Center for Digital Scholarship Support and Resources ▾ Ask a Librarian Library Experts List Research Subject Guides Teaching Support Guide Create a Web Project Brown Digital Repository Digital Publications Initiative Tutorials Giving ▾ Make a Gift Donate Materials Digital Bookplates Friends of the Library Feedback Permissions and Publication John Hay Library Publication of Material found in the Collections of the John Hay Library The John Hay Library supports scholarly projects by providing broad access to digital objects and physical materials. Researchers should note that compliance with copyright law is their responsibility. The John Hay Library does not hold copyright to the bulk of the materials within its holdings, and accordingly cannot legally grant permission to cite or reprint such material. For information on how to obtain copyright permission, please see How to Get Permission. Publication permission can be granted by the John Hay Library for a limited array of materials, where the literary and artistic rights are owned by the University (as the creator) or where such rights have been legally transferred to Brown University. For materials over which Brown University holds copyright, please complete the request form. University photographs are subject to fair use and copyright restrictions. Please contact University Communications regarding commercial use of Brown University images: media_relations@brown.edu. Brown University owns the copyright to work by the following creators, listed below. These archival collections may include the work of other writers, artists, photographers, and individuals for whom Brown University does not own copyright. In those instances, researchers must contact the appropriate copyright holder for permission to publish: Fernando Birri Archive of Multimedia Arts, 1925-2010 Florence King papers, 1897-2015 John Preston papers, circa 1973-1995 Howard Milton Blake papers, 1930-1950 Kenneth P. Whiting papers, 1925-1976 Brown University institutional records Special Collections Links Home Page Visiting Willis Reading Room Gildor Family Special Collections Reading Room Using Special Collections Register for Access Forms Special Collections Hours Permissions & Publication Reproduction Services Collections A – Z Collection Policy Finding Aids and Catalogs History of Special Collections Center for Digital Scholarship Exhibitions Friends of the Library News FAQ People University Archives Contact the John Hay Library with additional questions. Art The Brown University Portrait Collection is part of the Brown University Campus Collection. Contact Nicole Wholean, University Curator/Registrar, with questions. Questions about Brown University Library art holdings (including the Annmary Brown Memorial) should be submitted via the request form. Questions Contact the John Hay Library or the appropriate curator/archivist with additional questions. Preferred Form of Citation: Citations for material reproduced or quoted from manuscript collections in the John Hay Library should take the following format: [Author], [Description], [Collection Title], Box [x], Folder [x], John Hay Library, Brown University. Citations for material from University Archives should be cited as follows: [Author], [Description], [Collection Title], Box [x], Folder [x], Brown University Archives. RESEARCHING Copyright Resources for further information on copyright: U.S. Copyright Law (U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress) Copyright and Fair Use at Brown (Brown University) When and how to cite materials: Citation and Copyright (Brown University Library) Determining what is in the public domain: Copyright Term and the Public Domain in the United States (Cornell University) Music (Public Domain Information Project) Discovering who holds copyright: WATCH and FOB databases (Harry Ransom Center) How to Get Permission (Brown University Library) Copyright Registration Records (U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress) The Durationator (Limited Times, LLC.) NOTE: This is a fee-based research service for global copyright issues. Brown University Library 10 Prospect St., Providence RI 02912 401‑863‑2165 Newsletter Careers at the Library Campus Map Feedback Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University