<iframe height="0" src="//www.googletagmanager.com/ns.html?id=GTM-5LBRZK" style="display:none;visibility:hidden" width="0"></iframe> Skip To Content University Libraries Services Tech Troubleshooting Tech Troubleshooting E-Resources Access Requirements Accept certificates when accessing library resources from a TAMU Libraries website. Javascript and cookies must be enabled/allowed. A NetID is required for off campus access, and access from HSC buildings. Firewall settings on your network or computer may interfere with access. Still having problems? Please contact us through our Report a problem form so we can further troubleshoot your access issue. Problems Logging In For questions or help, contact AskUs Services or Help Desk Central. Common fixes are noted below: Not everyone with a NetID has library access, use the link below to verify your university affiliation status: NetID Checker Try resetting your password e-Journals (SFX) Access The library uses the URL below to allow access to e-journals. To check if you have access to this address: Click the test URL Confirm the link takes you to a black screen with a large @SFX created from red numbers, letters, and characters, see the image below. Off-Campus Access Off-Campus Bookmark Add this bookmark to your browser to access Libraries content with your NetID. Make sure your browser's toolbar is visible Drag this bookmark image into your bookmarks bar: When you land on a resource, click the bookmark and it will prompt you to log in. Configure Google Scholar to access library resources Links to Google Scholar on the Libraries websites use software called EZproxy to provide off-campus access to full text subscriptions. EZproxy assigns all computers the same IP address. During times of heavy usage, this occasionally causes Google to misinterpret searches as being made by a robot and block access. There are a couple of options to resolve the problem: Directions to configure Google Scholar Report a problem OAL Computer Access OAL Printing OAL Remote Printing Electronic resources access issues (Libraries) Additional Resources TAMU Wireless Information NetID Accounts & ID Management Support the Libraries AskUs anything at anytime. Chat with Us Call Us Text Us @ 979-256-1091 Email Us About the Libraries Quick Phone & Mailing List Directory | Find my Librarian Employment Diversity Matters Site Map | Site Search Follow Us Facebook Twitter You Tube Instagram howdy.tamu.edu Off-Campus Access Texas A&M University Site Policies Accessibility Texas CREWS Comments Services Status