Clemson University A-Z Index Phonebook MENUMENU Find & Borrow Find Books, Articles & More Databases Journals Course Reserves Research & Course Guides WorldCat Borrow Technology Interlibrary Loan PASCAL Delivers Scan and Deliver Off-Campus Delivery Service Explore - State Park Passes Borrowing Privileges Unique collections Gunnin Architecture Library Digital Collections Education Media Center & Digital Media Learning Lab Special Collections and Archives TigerPrints Help Finding Library Materials Borrowing Help Offsite Shelving Circulation Policies Library Fines and Fees Proxy Card Service Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Research & Teaching Research Support Research & Course Guides Citation Management Subject Librarians Undergraduate Research Award Teaching Support Course Instruction Workshops Tutorials Course Reserves Open Educational Resources (OER) Digital Scholarship & Publishing Data Services Digital Projects Support Publishing & Copyright Clemson University Press Help Getting Started with Research Proxy Card Service Purchase Request Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Study & Create Study Spaces Library Locations Learning Commons Creative Spaces Adobe Digital Studio Brown Digital Lab Cooper Makerspace Digital Media Learning Lab Geospatial Center Scholars’ Lab Amenities Starbucks - Cooper Library POD - Cooper Library Reflection Room Help Find Printers & Scanners Academic Success Center CCIT Support Center Michelin Career Center Writing Lab Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions About Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Locations & Parking Floor Maps Our Organization Welcome from the Dean News Staff Directory Policies Accessibility Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Library Residents Program Strategic Plan Organizational Chart Libraries Reorganization Overview Cooper 2.0: A Vision for the Future Employment Opportunities Clemson Libraries Advisory Committee Library Depot Giving Giving Home Honor with Books Fund Friends of the Libraries Help Contact Us Records Management Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Make a Suggestion R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU My Account Giving Help Open Educational Resources MENUMENU Benefits of OER Open Education Events OER Faculty Award OER Development Projects Open Educational Resources (OER) Open Educational Resources (OER) are textbooks, interactive simulations and labs, instructional videos and other materials that are specifically designed for online use and completely free for instructors and students. These materials are peer reviewed, often created by prestigious institutions, and they allow instructors to move beyond the constraints imposed by traditional learning materials and experiment with new forms of teaching. Search for OER Our OER Research Guide contains links to over 1,000 free resources for specialized, general education and K-12 courses, in text, video, interactive web simulation and many other formats. It also allows you to access free collections of images, historical literature and primary sources. Click on the button below to get started! OER Search Page Understanding OER OER are not simply free learning materials. They have special copyright conditions that allow you to use, combine and even make modifications to them to suit your teaching needs. Check out the Canvas tutorial below to learn about the different types of OER and copyright licenses for these materials, and expand your knowledge of copyright! OER Tutorial Open Pedagogy Teaching OER is also connected to open pedagogy, an educational movement that seeks to motivate students by engaging them to publish information on the web. Do you know that instead of having students write a research paper you can organize them to write an OER textbook on the course subject as a group? This activity challenges them to practice their research skills, learn how to write for a public audience, professional editing, peer reviewing the work of classmates, understanding copyright, and will allow students to publish a work that they can cite on their CVs. There are also many other ways for students to publish their work, such as through creating wiki pages and blogs. Please check out our open pedagogy Canvas guide. Open Pedagogy Pressbooks OER Creation Platform Pressbooks is simple book production software, which allows you to create online textbooks, as well as books that are downloadable in the following formats: MOBI (for Kindle ebooks) EPUB (for all other ebookstores) designed PDF (for print-on-demand and digital distribution). Pressbooks is used by educational institutions and authors around the world. At Clemson it has been used by faculty to create learning resources, as well as in open pedagogy instruction. See what Clemson faculty and students are doing with this software platform. Pressbooks OER Blog (Coming Soon) Are you an instructor, administrator or staff member or student who is enthusiastic about keeping up with new trends in OER teaching? Please check out our OER blog for up to date news on OER, open pedagogy and OER related events in Clemson. Clemson University Libraries 116 Sigma Drive, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3027 Directory Employment Contact Us