Skip to main content Contact Us My Accounts Give to UH Libraries University of Houston Libraries Search Borrow Research & Learning Spaces & Technology About Home > Policies > Privacy Policy Privacy Policy The University of Houston Libraries uses web server log information to create internal summary reports about website use. Some reports may identify the host name of the computer used. The Libraries do not use cookies to gather and analyze personal information; however, some vendors of electronic resources that the Libraries license do use cookies on their systems. The Libraries uses personal information provided in email requests, web forms, authentication sessions with library servers, and other electronic transactions to provide the requested service and to analyze the effectiveness of service efforts. If a service request requires that another organization provide the needed service (e.g., an interlibrary loan request) and that organization requires that personal data be supplied, then the Libraries will provide that organization with the data. Otherwise, the Libraries will not release any personal information gathered to any third party unless required to do so by law. 4333 University Drive Houston, TX 77204-2000 (713) 743-1050 Privacy Policy Hours Employment Directory Give Us Feedback Contact Us Give to UH Libraries Libraries & Collections Maps & Directions UH Libraries News Site Search Site Map Search Borrow Research & Learning Spaces & Technology About UH Home facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube ©2022 University of Houston. All rights reserved. Report a problem with this page Texas.gov Texas Homeland Security TRAIL Fraud Reporting Linking Notice Privacy Notice Open Records/Public Information Act Institutional Résumé Required Reports Electronic & Information Resources Accessibility Sexual Misconduct Reporting and Awareness University Policies Your browser does not support JavaScript! Your browser does not support JavaScript! Please ensure Javascript is enabled for purposes of website accessibility