Clemson University A-Z Index Phonebook MENUMENU Find & Borrow Find Books, Articles & More Databases Journals Course Reserves Research & Course Guides WorldCat Borrow Technology Interlibrary Loan PASCAL Delivers Scan and Deliver Off-Campus Delivery Service Explore - State Park Passes Borrowing Privileges Unique collections Gunnin Architecture Library Digital Collections Education Media Center & Digital Media Learning Lab Special Collections and Archives TigerPrints Help Finding Library Materials Borrowing Help Offsite Shelving Circulation Policies Library Fines and Fees Proxy Card Service Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Research & Teaching Research Support Research & Course Guides Citation Management Subject Librarians Undergraduate Research Award Teaching Support Course Instruction Workshops Tutorials Course Reserves Open Educational Resources (OER) Digital Scholarship & Publishing Data Services Digital Projects Support Publishing & Copyright Clemson University Press Help Getting Started with Research Proxy Card Service Purchase Request Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Study & Create Study Spaces Library Locations Learning Commons Creative Spaces Adobe Digital Studio Brown Digital Lab Cooper Makerspace Digital Media Learning Lab Geospatial Center Scholars’ Lab Amenities Starbucks - Cooper Library POD - Cooper Library Reflection Room Help Find Printers & Scanners Academic Success Center CCIT Support Center Michelin Career Center Writing Lab Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions About Visit Hours Visit the Libraries Locations & Parking Floor Maps Our Organization Welcome from the Dean News Staff Directory Policies Accessibility Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Library Residents Program Strategic Plan Organizational Chart Libraries Reorganization Overview Cooper 2.0: A Vision for the Future Employment Opportunities Clemson Libraries Advisory Committee Library Depot Giving Giving Home Honor with Books Fund Friends of the Libraries Help Contact Us Records Management Ask a Librarian Frequently Asked Questions Make a Suggestion R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU R.M. Cooper Library 8:00 AM - 8:00 PM ▾ Special Collections and Archives: By Appointment Gunnin Architecture Library: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM Education Media Center: 8:00 AM - 4:30 PM MENUMENU My Account Giving Help Reflection Room The Reflection Room is located in Cooper Library 214 and is open to all Clemson University students, staff, and faculty. The Reflection Room includes cushions, seating, yoga mats, a bench, plants, a water feature, a sound machine, and rugs. Visitors will also find a small resource collection related to mindfulness, reflection, yoga, and reflection that they can check out from the Libraries. The mission of the Reflection Room at Cooper Library is to provide a peaceful and quiet space for reflection, yoga, prayer, or meditation. Below are the guidelines of use of the space to ensure a peaceful, safe, and welcoming experience for everyone. This room is available to all Clemson University students, staff, and faculty. Please be respectful and kind. Use of the space is for the purposes of quiet personal reflection, yoga, meditation, or prayer. The Reflection Room is not to be used as a study space or sleeping area. Limit your time to 30 minutes in order to share the space. Up to 3 people can be in the space at one time. No candles or scented oils in the Reflection Room. Do not leave advertisements or flyers in the Reflection Room. Personal items brought to the Reflection Room to aid in reflective activities need to be removed by the person who brought them in. Cell phone use and the playing of audible music are not permissible. In order to keep the space and floors clean, no food is permitted. If there are any issues regarding use or occupants, please contact Library Security at (864) 656-6194 Clemson University Libraries 116 Sigma Drive, Clemson, SC 29634 864-656-3027 Directory Employment Contact Us