Skip to main content FSU Quicklinks ▾ Search Search form Search Florida State University Alumni Association FSU Foundation Real Estate Foundation Seminole Boosters Florida State University Office of Trademark Licensing Toggle navigation Site Menu Our Brand About Florida State Brand Guidelines Brand Elements Policies Find a Licensee Campus Use Artwork Do’s and Don’ts Campus Departments Seminole Clubs Trademark Registration Inquiry Form Students Artwork Do's and Don'ts Greek Organizations Name Image Likeness (NIL) Recognized Student Organizations Sports Clubs Find Products College Vault FAQ Previous Next The Office of Trademark Licensing manages and markets the trademarks, logos, likeness and branded intellectual property of Florida State University. Our mission is defined by three main goals: PROTECT the marks, images, and heritage associated with Florida State University, and ensure the proper use and application of those marks. PROMOTE the brand by elevating the level of exposure in the retail marketplace and heighten awareness among campus departments, student organizations, alumni, and fans. PROVIDE vital resources to support University and athletic initiatives through royalties on the sale of officially licensed merchandise. The Office of Trademark Licensing manages the intellectual property rights of Florida State University and protects and promotes its image. All usage of trademarks, symbols, imagery, or other insignia must be approved by the Office of Trademark Licensing. Look for the Label! Product that has been approved and licensed by Florida State University will bear an Officially Licensed Collegiate Product label. To ensure that you are purchasing product that is authentic and supports the University, look for this label before you buy. If the product does not have this hologram, you can assume that the product is not officially licensed. To get a list stores selling Florida State University officially licensed products click here. Please note: Use of any element of Florida State University brand on merchandise or in relation to goods and services requires the express permission of Florida State University. This applies to all students, alumni, staff, faculty, manufactures, retailers, and customers. OUR BRAND About Florida State University Brand Guidelines Policies FIND A LICENSEE CAMPUS USE Campus Departments Recognized Student Organizations Artwork Do's and Don'ts Seminole Clubs Sports Clubs FIND PRODUCTS COLLEGE VAULT FAQ Katie Pugh, Director (850) 644-3141 katie.pugh@fsu.edu Garrett O'Connor, Assistant Director Phone:(850) 644-8690 goconnor2@fsu.edu Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media Close