Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Undergraduate Science Education at Harvard A world of exploration. A world of expertise. Life Sciences Cluster Explore Why Life Sciences? For First-Years For Sophomores Life Sciences Experience Careers in the Life Sciences We're Here to Help Concentrations BME CPB Chemistry CNEP HDRB HEB IB/OEB MCB Neuroscience Courses Foundational Gateway Advanced Courses Research Courses Tutorials Course Catalog Physical Sciences Cluster Astrophysics Chemistry and Physics Earth and Planetary Sciences Environmental Science and Public Policy Mathematics Statistics Physics Research Research FAQ Harvard-affiliated Labs HUROS Poster Event Research Opportunities and Funding Research Advising Research in Science Education Resources Poster Preparation Library Resources Science Student Groups Quiet Study Areas Additional Resources People Directory Science Education Office Mentoring Faculty Resources Board of Tutors in Biochemical Sciences Classrooms and Facilities Faculty Digital Handbook Media Resources Undergrad Recruitment Considerations Student Mentoring TF Resources Undergraduate Science Education at Harvard University Explore New Worlds: Research in the field of the Sciences is eye opening The Beauty of Science Science Education is Form and Function: Where Undergraduate Education in the Physical Sciences & the Life Sciences Clusters Meet Symmetry and Art Find the Perfect Balance in the Life Sciences What is the Life Sciences? VIDEO Undergraduate students talk about their experience Look and Learn at HUROS: Poster Sessions Give Insight to Research. Find Your Perfect Balance in the Sciences! Science Comes in All Shapes and Sizes Discover All that Science Can Be For You in the Physical Sciences and Life Sciences Clusters Science Education Mentor Series Panel Answers Questions Awardees Receive Recognition for Their Achievements This is Undergraduate Science Education Welcome faculty, students and parents. The Office of Science Education brings you resources for improving undergraduate science education at Harvard for both the Physical Sciences and the Life Sciences Concentration Cluster, under the support and direction of The Division of Science which fosters learning and collaboration cross disiplines. Undergraduate Education in the LIFE SCIENCES The Life Sciences Concentration Cluster consists of nine concentrations with common introductory foundation courses. We aim to bring you all of the flexibility and expansive undergraduate science education experience and access you expect here at Harvard. You can find the Life Sciences Advising Booklet here. Biomedical engineering The Chemical and Physical Biology (CPB) Chemistry Cognitive Neuroscience & Evolutionary Psychology (CN&EP) Human Developmental and Regenerative Biology (HDRB) Human evolutionary biology Integrative Biology (IB)/Organismic and Evolutionary Biology (OEB) Molecular and Cellular Biology (MCB) Neuroscience Undergraduate Education in the PHYSICAL SCIENCES The Physical Sciences has extraordinary resources for study and research, with ample opportunity for collaboration between disciplines. Students typically begin their study either with interdisciplinary courses in the Physical Sciences sequence or with foundational courses in one of the relevant departments. As you continue in the Physical Sciences, courses become concentration focused. Astrophysics Chemistry Chemistry and Physics Earth & Planetary Sciences Environmental Science & Public Policy Mathematics Physics Statistics 16 Divinity Ave., Cambridge, MA 02138 Search Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement