Skip to main content Life & Letters Magazine Search Features Books Commentary Blog Archive About Give Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Show Menu The Pilgrimage of Professor Latinx: Frederick Luis Aldama and the Making of an Academic Superhero The origin story of Frederick Luis Aldama, professor of English at The University of Texas at Austin and academic superhero “Professor Latinx,” begins with a bus trip his mother took before he was born. She set out from her home in East Los Angeles toward Guatemala, intending to meet family members she’d only heard about […] Features The Danger Imperative: Reckoning With the Perception of Violent Threat in American Police Culture In July 2016, a gunman ambushed Dallas police officers, killing five, injuring an additional nine (along with two civilians), and fueling public rhetoric about a so called “war on cops.” At the time of the Dallas shooting, Michael Sierra-Arévalo, now an assistant professor of sociology at The University of Texas at Austin, was doing fieldwork […] The Sequencing of our Success: Q & A with Kathryn Paige Harden In her book, The Genetic Lottery: Why DNA Matters for Social Equality, psychology professor Kathryn Paige Harden explores how genes contribute to variation in complex life outcomes such as educational attainment and income level. She argues that understanding genetic impacts on these outcomes could and should be used to promote greater equity among individuals with […] Blog A Love Letter to Black Austin Interview with Lisa B. Thompson and Richard Reddick on Their New Black Austin Matters Podcast Black Austin Matters, a new podcast from KUT and KUTX Studios, aims to give voice to the daily experiences of Black Austinites, while deepening mutual understanding throughout the broader Austin community. We spoke to its hosts and co-producers, College of […] Q&A with RANE Eurasia Analyst Matthew Orr Matthew Orr is a Eurasia analyst at RANE, a risk intelligence company that provides geopolitical information and consultation to consumers and corporate clients with business interests around the globe. Prior to starting at RANE, Orr received dual Master’s degrees in Global Policy Studies and Russian, East European and Eurasian Studies at The University of Texas […] Q&A with Mykhaylo (Misha) Simanovskyy, Graduate Student and Donetsk Native Misha Simanovskyy is a native of Donetsk, Ukraine and a first-year graduate student pursuing a dual master’s degree in Global Policy Studies and Russian, East European, and Eurasian Studies. Fighting from Within A Q&A with 2020 Diehl Prize winner and public school teacher Yulissa Chavez. A child of immigrants who had no formal education, Chavez has long been passionate about public education and combatting systems of oppression and poverty. Books Her Neighbor’s Wife: Uncovering the Hidden History of Lesbian Desire in Post-war American Marriage Lauren Jae Gutterman’s new book, Her Neighbor’s Wife: A History of Lesbian Desire Within Marriage, begins with novelist Alma Routsong writing in her secret diary. Routsong would later gain acclaim and notoriety as the author of A Place for Us, one of the earliest American novels that deals in a nuanced way with lesbian relationships. […] Book Excerpt: A Time to Gather by Jason Lustig The Nazi Party’s rise to power and the concomitant exclusion of Jews from public life led to a somewhat surprising strengthening of Jewish institutions, the Gesamtarchiv included. Commentary Alan Warren Friedman Shakespeare’s Returning Warriors – and Ours If it is wise, every society that sends its young citizens off to war will find a way to reassimilate them when they return. Jeffrey Abramson Supreme Court poised to put Boston Marathon bomber back on death row In a legal marathon running alongside the real Boston Marathon, the Supreme Court heard oral argument this week about whether to re-instate the on-again, off-again death sentence of Dzhokhar Tsarnaev, for his role in planting the deadly bombs near the 2013 Marathon finish line. Art Markman Changing your mind about something as important as vaccination isn’t a sign of weakness – being open to new information is the smart way to make choices Culturally, this is an era in which people are held in high esteem when they stick with their beliefs and negatively labeled as “flip-floppers” or “wishy-washy” when they change what they think. Archive Current Issue Spring 2022 Fall 2021 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2020 Fall 2019 The College of Liberal Arts at The University of Texas at Austin About Give Contact Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin © 2022, The University of Texas at Austin. All rights reserved. Web Policies Web Accessibility Policy. 110 Inner Campus Drive Austin, TX 78705