Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Linguistics Department of Linguistics Contact Us Facebook linguistics@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview About Linguistics Learning Outcomes Courses Major/Minor Modified Minor Computational Linguistics Major Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Honors Past Honors Theses Awards and Prizes Alumni and their Career Paths Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Research Overview Faculty Research Recent Grants Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Linguistics Lab Research Roundtable Linguistic Discovery (Dartmouth journal) DARLA: Dartmouth Linguistic Automation Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Have a Favorite Linguistics Meme? There's a Club For That Posted on August 17, 2021 by Aimee Minbiole News subtitle The Dartmouth Undergraduate Linguistics Club offers a place to learn and connect. Image Image (Image by Boris15/Shutterstock) Body For co-president Brandon Zhou ’22, the Dartmouth Undergraduate Linguistics Club offers a unique chance to connect with peers who share his interest in the scientific study of language. That includes telling jokes he “definitely could not share anywhere else,” says Zhou, a government and linguistics major who provided a convincing, internet search-provoking example. “What’s a glottal fricative?” “Sigh.” But newbies need not worry; no experience is required to join. The club, which came online—literally—last fall, promotes opportunities for students to learn from each another, faculty, and outside researchers. Its goal is to build a community grounded in the study of linguistics. The newly formed club complements the activities the Department of Linguistics already sponsors, such as research roundtables and social events, says Zhou, who founded DULC with fellow ’22s and co-presidents Guhui Zhang and Angela Burns. For its inaugural event, the club co-organized the department’s annual homecoming talk, which was virtual last year, and added a new twist, recruiting alumni for a chat with current undergraduates. The students’ enthusiasm and energy made for a more vibrant environment than that of a typical Zoom event, says linguistics professor and department chair James Stanford. Stanford, who is DULC’s adviser, says the department faculty are excited about the club and were especially grateful to have it this year, because of the pandemic. The faculty had previously discussed the idea of creating something similar, but it took motivated students to make that a reality, he says. “We’re very impressed with their success, and we look forward to many, many years of this club.” During its first year, DULC also hosted game nights, podcast discussions, an alumni career panel, and a showcase for student and faculty research. Being able to interact with classmates at a time when in-person interactions were not encouraged “certainly made me feel less lonely,” says Zhang, a mathematical data science and linguistics major from Shanghai. Zhou says the club has had great support from Stanford and the entire department, and faculty members have spoken at DULC events on topics ranging from tonal languages to psycholinguistics and neurolinguistics. The students’ research interests are equally diverse. Zhang is a research assistant for Associate Professor of Linguistics Laura McPherson, studying aspects of Seenku, a language spoken in southwestern Burkina Faso. Burns, a linguistics major from Camp Hill, Pa., has been involved in research about New England English, including a study of African-American English in the Boston area. “We really are all over the map with the research we are doing, and the people we are asking to speak,” says Zhou, of Vancouver, who is writing a senior honors thesis about language acquisition. While the club will look different this year—having been founded during the pandemic, its to-do list includes transitioning to in-person meetings—the focus won’t change. Quote The overarching goal will be to form that community and provide a space for people to engage in linguistics outside of the classroom. Attribution Brandon Zhou ’22, co-founder of the Dartmouth Undergraduate Linguistics Club “The overarching goal will be to form that community and provide a space for people to engage in linguistics outside of the classroom,” Zhou says. “Holding that space for students will be really important.” Tags: Linguistics , students Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Linguistics Undergraduate Overview About Linguistics Learning Outcomes Courses Major/Minor Modified Minor Computational Linguistics Major Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Honors Past Honors Theses Awards and Prizes Alumni and their Career Paths Foreign Study Research Overview Faculty Research Recent Grants Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Linguistics Lab Research Roundtable Linguistic Discovery (Dartmouth journal) DARLA: Dartmouth Linguistic Automation News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback