Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Linguistics Department of Linguistics Contact Us Facebook linguistics@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview About Linguistics Learning Outcomes Courses Major/Minor Modified Minor Computational Linguistics Major Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Honors Past Honors Theses Awards and Prizes Alumni and their Career Paths Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Research Overview Faculty Research Recent Grants Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Linguistics Lab Research Roundtable Linguistic Discovery (Dartmouth journal) DARLA: Dartmouth Linguistic Automation Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Courses Major/Minor Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Honors Past Honors Theses Awards and Prizes Alumni and their Career Paths Read More Undergraduate Research Share Honors The Honors Program in Linguistics offers qualified majors the opportunity to undertake independent research during their senior year under the direction of a faculty member. In order to enter the Honors Program, a student must have a 3.0 grade average in all courses taken at Dartmouth College and an average of 3.3 for courses with the major. For a list of prior students' honors theses, see Past Honors Theses. Honors Program in Linguistics The program in Linguistics encourages all qualified majors in Linguistics to participate in the Honors Program during their senior year. The program consists of extensive independent research beyond the program's degree requirements (though up to two credits can be earned by participating), and typically concludes with the completion of an Honors Thesis. Majors who choose to participate in the Honors Program are provided with the opportunity to investigate theoretical issues and empirical phenomena at a level far more intensive than is possible in a typical undergraduate course. Eligibility The minimum requirement for admission to the Honors Program is a grade average of 3.3 for courses taken in the major and of 3.0 for all courses taken at the College. Students who are ineligible for the Honors Program, or who cannot participate for other reasons, but do wish to pursue a topic in depth, should consult an adviser about the possibilities of doing research in the form of an independent study. The Honors Thesis An Honors Thesis is not a long term paper. Instead, it must reflect a command of the scholarly literature relevant to the thesis topic, proficiency in the tools and techniques of the relevant discipline, and evidence of a distinct point of view which is the result of the student's own reasoning process. The form of an Honor's Thesis is as important as the content; it must be a carefully planned and well-written piece. The length of the thesis will vary widely depending on the nature of the topic. Honors work which involves a significant experimental component typically results in a shorter thesis (roughly 30 pages). Honors theses which include a great deal of collected data often reach lengths of 70 pages. The length of theses with a heavy theoretical orientation falls somewhere between these extremes. Working closely with a faculty member is a crucial part of the Honors Program. Before applying to the Honors Program in Linguistics, you must discuss the proposed project with an adviser and obtain the adviser's tentative approval regarding the feasibility of the project. Any student who is working with an adviser whose primary area of research and/or training is not linguistics is required to consult with Linguistics faculty member before submitting a thesis proposal. Proposals In order to be accepted into the Honors Program a student must submit a proposal to the chair of the Program in Linguistics. This proposal (or prospectus) should present a succinct outline of the research project. It should: Give a clear statement of purpose. Define the parameters of the topic to be investigated. Outline the procedures to be used in investigating the topic (e.g., the design of the experiments to be used, or the methodology employed to gather linguistic data). Outline a realistic schedule for completion. Include a bibliography which demonstrates an awareness of the relevant literature. Include the name of a principal advisor who has agreed to serve and will be on campus for the two terms of the project. The proposal will be reviewed by Linguistics as a plan for the future, not a finished project. The program may accept or reject the proposal, or accept it with modifications. Proposals will be rejected if the project is not clearly defined or seems difficult to implement or conclude. If the department accepts a proposal with modifications, there is no need for the student to resubmit it provided that he/she agrees to the modifications. The department will also assign a second reader for each project. This reader will serve as an additional source of advice and expertise and will share in the task of evaluating the student's final product. Students should be aware that the department's acceptance of a proposal is not a guarantee that the completed project will earn honors. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Linguistics Undergraduate Overview About Linguistics Learning Outcomes Courses Major/Minor Modified Minor Computational Linguistics Major Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Honors Past Honors Theses Awards and Prizes Alumni and their Career Paths Foreign Study Research Overview Faculty Research Recent Grants Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Linguistics Lab Research Roundtable Linguistic Discovery (Dartmouth journal) DARLA: Dartmouth Linguistic Automation News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback