Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Linguistics Department of Linguistics Contact Us Facebook linguistics@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview About Linguistics Learning Outcomes Courses Major/Minor Modified Minor Computational Linguistics Major Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Honors Past Honors Theses Awards and Prizes Alumni and their Career Paths Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Research Overview Faculty Research Recent Grants Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Linguistics Lab Research Roundtable Linguistic Discovery (Dartmouth journal) DARLA: Dartmouth Linguistic Automation Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next 'Giving Voice to People Who Have Been Left Out' A linguistics study uses a new approach to explore Black Bostonian speech. Linguistics Major Awarded Undergraduate Senior Honors Thesis grant The Department of Linguistics congratulates Akiah J. Watts on receiving a Spring 2022 $2500 Undergraduate Senior Honors Thesis grant from the Kaminsky Family Fund Award. Newly Awarded Research Grant Research grant awarded to Sally Akevai Nicholas and her colleague Rolando Coto-Solano. Have a Favorite Linguistics Meme? There's a Club For That The Dartmouth Undergraduate Linguistics Club offers a place to learn and connect. Linguistics Department Senior Luncheon - June 10th On Thursday June 10th the Linguistics Faculty & Staff hosted an outdoor luncheon to celebrate our graduating seniors. Linguistics Senior Honor Thesis Presentations Congratulations to the class of 2021! The Linguistics Department is so proud of each of you for your hard work and determination this past year. Dartmouth Undergraduate Linguistics Club (DULC) Join the newly founded Dartmouth Undergraduate Linguistics Club ! Former Linguistics Student Featured in a Wired Magazine show Former Linguistics Student, Kalina Newmark '11 featured in a Wired TV Magazine show. Professor McPherson featured in Linguistic Society of America Laura McPherson is Associate Professor of Linguistics at Dartmouth College. Her research is driven by primary fieldwork and in-depth description of tonal languages, primarily in West Africa. Congratulations Laura! New Project on Life and Language in New England Dr. Monica Nesbitt is leading a team of Dartmouth sociolinguistics researchers interviewing Black/African Americans as part of Dartmouth's Linguistics Program's effort to document life and language in New England. Recent Publications view all On Kuki-Chin subgrouping David A. Peterson In Picus Sizhi Ding and Jamin Pelkey, eds. Sociohistorical linguistics in Southeast Asia A Grammar of Seenku Laura McPherson Mouton Grammar Library 83. Berlin: De Gruyter Mouton 2020 Modification of stative predicates Thomas Ernst Language 92.2 New England English: Large-scale acoustic sociophonetics and dialectology James N. Stanford Oxford University Press, 2019 Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Linguistics Undergraduate Overview About Linguistics Learning Outcomes Courses Major/Minor Modified Minor Computational Linguistics Major Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Honors Past Honors Theses Awards and Prizes Alumni and their Career Paths Foreign Study Research Overview Faculty Research Recent Grants Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Linguistics Lab Research Roundtable Linguistic Discovery (Dartmouth journal) DARLA: Dartmouth Linguistic Automation News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback