Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Linguistics Department of Linguistics Contact Us Facebook linguistics@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview About Linguistics Learning Outcomes Courses Major/Minor Modified Minor Computational Linguistics Major Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Honors Past Honors Theses Awards and Prizes Alumni and their Career Paths Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Research Overview Faculty Research Recent Grants Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Linguistics Lab Research Roundtable Linguistic Discovery (Dartmouth journal) DARLA: Dartmouth Linguistic Automation Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search David A. Peterson Academic Appointments Associate Professor of Linguistics Contact David.A.Peterson@Dartmouth.edu 6046464024 307 Reed Hall HB 6220 Education B.A. University of Alaska at Fairbanks M.A. University of California at Berkeley Ph.D. University of California at Berkeley Areas of Expertise morphosyntactic typology, comparative Tibeto-Burman, language description and documentation Selected Publications On Kuki-Chin subgrouping. In Picus Sizhi Ding and Jamin Pelkey, eds. Sociohistorical linguistics in Southeast Asia: New horizons for Tibeto-Burman studies in honor of David Bradley, 189-209. Leiden: Brill. (2017) Language typology and historical contingency. Edited by Balthasar Bickel, Lenore A. Grenoble, David A. Peterson and Alan Timberlake. John Benjamins. (2013) Rengmitca: The most endangered Kuki-Chin language of Bangladesh. In Nathan W. Hill and Thomas Owen-Smith, eds. Trans-Himalayan linguistics: Historical and descriptive linguistics of the Himalayan area, 313-327. Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter. (2013) Core participant marking in Khumi. Linguistics of the Tibeto-Burman area 34.2:73-100. (2011) Khumi elaborate expressions. Himalayan linguistics 9.1:1-20 (2010) Bangladesh Khumi verbal classifiers and Kuki-Chin chiming. Linguistics of the Tibeto-Burman area 31.1:109-138. (2008) Applicative constructions. Oxford University Press. (2007) Agreement and grammatical relations in Hyow. In David Bradley, Randy LaPolla, Boyd Michailovsky, and Graham Thurgood, eds. Language variation: Papers on variation and change in the Sinosphere and in the Indosphere in honour of James A. Matisoff, 173-183. Canberra: Pacific Linguistics/ANU. (2003) Hakha Lai. In Graham Thurgood and Randy J. LaPolla, eds. The Sino-Tibetan Languages, 409-426. London: Routledge. (2003) On Khumi pronominal agreement morphology. Berkeley Linguistics Society (Special Session) 28:99-110 (submitted 2002, published 2006 + View more Works In Progress comparative grammar of Kuki-Chin languages, reference grammars of Khumi and Mru, documentation of Rengmitca Courses LING 1 Introductory Linguistics LING 24 Discourse Analysis LING 25 Typology LING 26 Morphology LING 35 Field Methods + View more Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Linguistics Undergraduate Overview About Linguistics Learning Outcomes Courses Major/Minor Modified Minor Computational Linguistics Major Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Honors Past Honors Theses Awards and Prizes Alumni and their Career Paths Foreign Study Research Overview Faculty Research Recent Grants Undergraduate Research Opportunities Student Presentations and Publications Linguistics Lab Research Roundtable Linguistic Discovery (Dartmouth journal) DARLA: Dartmouth Linguistic Automation News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback