Linguistics Logo About Us About Linguistics The Linguists Club at Princeton American Sign Language Club Princeton University Language Project Academics Certificate Independent Concentration Courses Funding Events Calendar Princeton Symposium on Syntactic Theory Princeton Phonology Forum People News Menu About Us About Linguistics The Linguists Club at Princeton American Sign Language Club Princeton University Language Project Academics Certificate Independent Concentration Courses Funding Events Calendar Princeton Symposium on Syntactic Theory Princeton Phonology Forum People News Sign up for news and announcements Sign Up June 1, 2022 Congratulations to the Class of 2022! February 16, 2022 University Homepage Spotlights New ASL Courses, Expanded Focus on Disability and Accessibility December 21, 2021 Professors in Linguistics Discuss Expansion of the ASL Program Back to Linguistics News Sign up for news and announcements Sign Up Program in Linguistics Announces Expanded American Sign Language Offerings April 21, 2021 A student signing American Sign Language. Photo courtesy of Candace Do / The Daily Princetonian. The Program in Linguistics is excited to announce an expansion of our American Sign Language (ASL) offerings. Over the coming two years, we will introduce four new ASL language courses, ASL 101, 102, 105, and 107. This involves a significant restructuring of our current offerings so that this new 100-level sequence can be taken to satisfy the university’s language requirement. In addition, we will be maintaining the extremely popular LIN 205 as a course that is fully independent of the language sequence, providing an overview of ASL and related topics, as well as introducing a new course on Deaf culture, to be offered for the first time in Spring 2022. We are incredibly grateful to the Dean of the Faculty, the Office of the Dean of the College, and the Humanities Council for their support in bringing this expansion to fruition, as well as to the many undergraduate students who rallied behind it. The Daily Princetonian published an article about the sequence. Read it here. News Program in Linguistics 1-S-19 Green Hall Princeton, New Jersey 08544 Contact (609) 258–8577 linguistics@princeton.edu © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University