Skip to main content iastate.edu Index A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Directory Maps Safety Sign Ons AccessPlus Canvas CyBox CyMail Okta Outlook Workday More Sign Ons... Iowa State University Linguistics Program Menu Toggle Search Toggle Search Home Major Course Catalog BA Requirements Minor in Linguistics TESL Minor in TESL K-12 ESL Endorsement K-12 ESL Frequently Asked Questions Practicum in ESL Experience Study Abroad Linguistics Club NSSHLA Advising Advising Resources and FAQ Communication Disorders Courses Faculty Challenge Home An LAS cross-disciplinary program, the Linguistics Program is housed in the Department of English. The program offers a major and a minor for undergraduate students wanting to learn about theory and practice in the study of language. Linguistics is the study of how human languages are structured and used. This may involve discovering patterns for how words are created, how sounds are combined to create meanings, how sentences are formed, and how speakers use language to communicate meaning. Students explore topics including the sounds and grammar of language, languages of the world, computational analysis of language, and language teaching. Virtual Summer 2020 Orientation for Incoming Students Iowa State University has made the difficult decision to transition to online orientation services this summer. Even though orientation and course registration will be virtual this summer, we promise you a warm welcome this fall and assure you that you will get the support you need to succeed and thrive at Iowa State. Please be sure to visit our Virtual Summer 2020 Orientation for Incoming Students page for important information on preparing for your advising meeting, as well as other information on registering for classes and completing your schedule. You will also find some inspiring videos from previous Linguistics students to inform and inspire your time at Iowa State. About The Linguistics Program Our B.A. in Linguistics is for undergraduate students. Our Undergraduate Minor in Linguistics is for undergraduate students. Our Undergraduate Minor in TESL is for undergraduate students wanting to learn about teaching English as a second language to add to their credentials for future employment. Our K-12 ESL endorsement program is for students who have or are earning certification in another area. It allows students to teach the growing number of English learners in our public schools. For information, prospective and current undergraduate students can visit our advising page, or contact the Undergraduate Linguistics Advisor, Taylor Anne Barriuso, for more information. For more Linguistics Program news and updates, visit the Iowa State University Linguistics Program on Facebook and Twitter. Facebook College of Liberal Arts and Sciences College of Liberal Arts and Sciences Linguistics Program Undergraduate Program in Linguistics For more information, contact Professor John Levis, Chair or Taylor Anne Barriuso, Advisor. Applied Linguistics Graduate Program Facebook Copyright © 1995- Iowa State University of Science and Technology All rights reserved. Non-discrimination Policy Privacy Policy Digital Access & Accessibility Loading...