Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Yale Linguistics NewsContact About People Academics Research Events Community About Note from the Chair Department History Department History History of Dow Hall Honoring diversity People William Dwight Whitney Edgar H. Sturtevant Murray Barnson Emeneau Edward Sapir Benjamin Lee Whorf Mary Rosamund Haas Leonard Bloomfield Bernard Bloch Isidore Dyen Rulon S. Wells III Warren Cowgill Edward Stankiewicz Sebastian Shaumyan Harold Conklin Stanley Insler Letter of Solidarity from the Chair Statement on Antiracism Letter to our Alumni People Faculty, Lectors, Lecturers & Postdocs Graduate Students Linguistics Majors Associated Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Alumni Ph.D. Alumni B.A. Alumni Academics Graduate Program Requirements Course Work Research Teaching & Research Assistantships Master's degrees Graduate Admissions Admissions FAQs Undergraduate Why study linguistics? For Non-Majors For Majors Undergraduate Courses FAQ Research Opportunities At Yale Other Institutions (2019) Other institutions (2018) Student Testimonials Linguistics Virtual Academic Fair Fall 2020 American Sign Language (ASL) FAQ Courses Visiting Scholars Research Labs Phonetics Lab Blackfoot Lab Computational Linguistics at Yale (CLAY) Yale Grammatical Diversity Project (YGDP) HistLing Lab Language & Brain Lab Reading Groups Current Grants Events Upcoming Events Past Events Conferences and Workshops Full Calendar Community NACLO at Yale Contest Info Spelling Bee Taking the Langue View Hornucopia Photo Galleries Senior Class Photos Welcome Linguistics is the systematic study of human language. Linguists are interested in language per se, as a complex product of the human mind. They are also interested in how language changes over time, how it is acquired and how it develops in children, and how it is used in society. Why Study Linguistics?Who Should Take Linguistics Classes?Careers for Linguistics Majors A window into human nature What are the properties shared by all human languages? What do they say about human nature? What are the differences attested across languages? Different modalities Languages may be spoken or signed “on the hands”. In what ways do spoken and signed languages differ? In what ways are they the same? Puzzles all around us Students who like word games and puzzles are drawn into the fun of identifying the abstract patterns found in language and making hypotheses about how they are represented in the mind of a speaker. So similar and yet also so different The languages of the world are extremely diverse, yet we also know that they have many things in common. Understanding the similarities and differences drives a large part of linguistic research. A product of the mind How is language represented and computed in the human mind? What can we do to help people whose ability to use language is somehow impaired? Language and technology What is the mathematical structure of human language? How do Alexa and Siri understand what I’m saying? American Sign Language We are driven by our students’ enthusiasm for learning about ASL and Deaf culture. By teaching ASL, we are educating aspiring leaders – who will serve all sectors of society – about the challenges specific to the Deaf community. Featured South Asia is an area with great linguistic diversity. The Indian constitution recognizes 23 languages, languages that are recognized as the official languages of particular states and/or languages which have been officially recognized for historical or cultural reasons. Outside of this official count, however, the number of Indian languages is thought to exceed 325 – and this is a conservative estimate. This two-day conference will have panels devoted to different aspects of language diversity, with morning sessions focused on theoretical linguistics and afternoon sessions on issues of broader interest. Language Diversity, Linguistic Theory and Cultural Identity in South Asia View Details News & Events News Ka-Fai Yip publishes a paper on modal movement April 20, 2022 View Details Lydia Lee and Tilly Brooks Participate in Linguistics Conference at Emory April 18, 2022 View Details Tilly Brooks Participates in Berkeley Undergraduates Linguistics Symposium April 18, 2022 View Details Upcoming Events No events to display. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Dow Hall, Floors 2 and 3 370 Temple St (corner of Grove) New Haven, CT 06511 Contact | RSS Copyright © 2021 Yale University Facebook Twitter Flickr iTunes YouTube