Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU LinkedIn Learning @ Harvard An online learning resource for the Harvard community Home Popular Courses FAQs Login Support Mobile Access LinkedIn Learning provides Harvard students and employees with over 15,000 on-demand courses on computer software, business skills, and creative skills from industry experts. Featured "Return to the Office" classes from LinkedIn Learning Prepare for Returning to the Workplace (42min) In this course, stress and resilience expert Heidi Hanna presents strategies, tips, and techniques to help you strengthen your emotional health, communication skills, and work performance as we deal with anxiety about returning to a work life that no longer feels familiar. Topics include navigating changes at home and work, resetting boundaries, recalibrating work/home routines, developing a “possibility mindset,” bolstering your patience and flexibility, and more. Navigating New Professional and Social Norms When Offices Reopen (33min) Tips, tricks, strategies, and ideas from business etiquette expert Jodi Smith on ways to make your return to the workplace as positive as possible. Explore how to navigate new expectations for social distancing, set and communicate boundaries, and interact with colleagues when offices reopen. Plus, learn tips for being flexible, reducing stress, and re-establishing relationships with coworkers. Enhance Productivity in a Hybrid Work Environment (17min) In this course, productivity author Paula Rizzo shows you how to stay on task when switching between locations. Discover how to rethink your physical spaces and prepare both your regular and home office for productivity whenever you're working there. Plus, learn how to stay one step ahead of productivity challenges, including how to deal with new disruptions at home and in the office. Supporting Your Team as Offices Reopen (35min) Returning to work doesn't exactly mean returning to "normal," but managers can develop a new and improved normal for going forward. In this course, professional coach Daisy Lovelace goes over important topics and issues to address in (re)establishing trust, revising work protocols, and building a flexible plan to support your team. Staying Organized While Working Remotely or On-Site (33min) In this course, organization expert Amy Fritz teaches you how to prepare your work environment to get the most done every day. From organizing your desk to managing your calendar and to-do list, Amy shows you how to stay focused on your actual work. She also offers advice for multitasking, maximizing break times, and maintaining a perfect workspace whether you're in an office or working remotely. To access LinkedIn Learning: Click the Login button and enter your HarvardKey. Once your eligibility is confirmed, you'll be automatically logged into LinkedIn Learning and given the option of connecting your account to a LinkedIn profile. Refer to the login problems or FAQ pages if you have any issues. For help with the LinkedIn Learning mobile app, go to our Mobile Access page. Get started learning: For help figuring out where to start, check out our Popular Courses page for a list of LinkedIn Learning content that's popular at Harvard. It contains links to training on common desktop software as well as classes on how to get the most out of LinkedIn Learning, and content to help individuals and managers learn how to better work remotely. Contact us at: training@harvard.edu Harvard's Center for Workplace Development The Harvard Training Portal Leadership Development Career Development Bridge Program Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement