Give Menu Home About Alumni Board Young Alumni Board Contact Us Career Hegi Family Career Development Center Handshake Career Network SMU LinkedIn SMU Network SMU Professional and Online Education Career Volunteer Connect Regional Chapters Chapter Toolkit Black Alumni of SMU Dallas Young Alumni Hispanic Alumni of SMU Hunt Scholars Alumni of SMU President's Scholars Alumni of SMU SMU Pride Alumni Mustang Travel Events Event Calendar Distinguished Alumni Awards Homecoming & Reunions 50-Year Reunion Founders Weekend Student Summer Sendoffs Admitted Student Receptions Taos Cultural Institute Serve Alumni Volunteer Program Career Volunteers Admission Volunteers Hilltop Volunteers Join A Reunion Committee Mustang Spirit Alumni Credit Card Alumni Insurance Program Alumni Photo Gallery Make a Gift Official Class Ring PERKS Refer a Mustang Order a Transcript Schedule a Tour SMU Bookstore SMU License Plate SMU Magazine Southern Methodist University / Alumni / Benefits / SMU Alumni Travel Program SMU Alumni Travel Program Enhance your lifetime connection to SMU as you travel to points ranging from exotic ports of the Orient to quaint villages in France. Take advantage of unique opportunities to visit exciting destinations and learn about their culture, history and art. SMU Alumni partners with premiere tour operators dedicated to creating first class educational travel experiences for alumni associations and other educational organizations. Our travel program is open to SMU alumni, parents, and friends. These trips are not exclusive to SMU, other alumni associations will also be traveling with you. We are proud to work with the following preferred travel partners: Go Next Travel, and Thomas P. Gohagan & Company. For more information, contact the Office of Alumni Relations at 214-768-2586, toll-free 1-888-327-3755 or e-mail smualum@mail.smu.edu. Is there a place you want to visit and do not see on our list? Tell us where you would like to go or visit us on Facebook. Disclaimer: The Southern Methodist University Office of Alumni Relations and Engagement provides these programs as a service to our alumni; their inclusion should not be considered an endorsement of the products and services provided by these vendors. The vendors supplying the products and services herein are solely responsible for: (a) providing and administering the products and services; (b) all of the information, statements and representations with respect to the products and services. Southern Methodist University (SMU) disclaims all responsibility and liability whatsoever for any information, statements, representations, products or services provided to you by these vendors. Any action you take with respect to the products and services will be at your own risk without any recourse or liability whatsoever to SMU. 2019 Program Rose Parade New Year's 5 nights December 30, 2019 - January 4, 2020 Priced from $3199 per person, double occupancy including airfare Moderate activity level Unpack once and enjoy a five night stay in beautiful Orange County in Southern California. The tour feaures Orange County's most famous sights and beach towns include San Juan Capistrano to visit the beautiful Mission San Juan Capistrano. New Year Eve's Dinner Party, and welcome in 2020 with the majesty of the Tournament of Roses Parade from reserved grandstand seats for the ultimate in up close viewing during the parade. Premier World Discovery 877-953-8687 premierworlddiscovery.com 2020 Program Circumnavigating of New Zealand 10 nights February 11-23, 2020 Priced from $5995 per person, double occupancy including airfare Moderate activity level Join this 10-night itinerary circumnavigating the South Island of New Zealand. Cruise for seven nights aboard Le Laperouse. Spend three nights in Auckland and visit the Northland District. Experience the friendly nature of "Kiwis" and Maori culture. Cruise Queen Charlotte Sound, visit the famouos Marlborough District and tour Christchurch. Gohagan & Company 800-922-3088 gohagantravel.com Celtic Lands 8 nights June 7-16, 2020 Priced from $6895 per person, double occupancy Moderate activity level Cruise for eight nights aboard the Five-Star small ship LeBoreal from France to Ireland, Wales and Scotland. Meet Dwight David Eisenhower II and Allen Packwood, who will provide exclusive lectures and personal insights. Enjoy guided excursions in each port of call, including the beaches of Normandy. Paris Pre-cruise and Glasgow and Edinburgh Post Cruise options. Gohagan & Company 800-922-3088 gohagantravel.com Pacific Coast Adventure 8 days June 11 - 18, 2020 Priced from $3595 per person, double occupancy including airfare Moderate activity level Highlights; Seattle City Tour and Space Needle, Pike Place Market, Mt. St. Helens Visitor Center, Portland City Tour, International Rose Test Garden, Oregon's Pacific Coast, Oregon Dunes National Recreation Area, Rogue River Jetboat Trip, Redwood National Park, Sonoma Valley Winery Tour and Tasting, Golden Gate Bridge, San Francisco City Tour, Fisherman's Warf Dinner. Premier World Discovery 877-953-8687 premierworlddiscovery.com Changing Tides of History;Cruising the Baltic Sea 8 nights July 7 - 16, 2020 Priced from $6695 per person, double occupancy Moderate activity level Experience the cultural rebirth of the Baltic states, with eight nights aboard the exclusively chartered, the Five-Star Le Dumont D' Urville/Jacques Cartien. Enjoy a specially-arranged presentation by former president of Poland Lech Walesa. Visit Gdansk, Tallinn, St. Petersburg, Helsinki and Visby. Gohagan & Company 800-922-3088 gohagantravel.com Black Hills, Badlands & Legends of the West 7 days August 12 - 18, 2020 Priced from $3475 per person, double occupancy including airfare Moderate activity level Back Hills and Badlands- Unpack for a 6 night single hotel stay in Rapid City. Visit Mount Rushmore including a special nighttime viewing. See Devil’s Tower National Monument, Crazy Horse Memorial, Fort Hays and Badlands National Park. Visit Wall Drug Store, Custer State Park, Deadwood and a wild horse sanctuary. Enjoy a buffalo jeep safari and chuckwagon dinner and cowboy show. Premier World Discovery 877-953-8687 premierworlddiscovery.com Philadelphia, Amish Country & the Brandywine Valley 6 days October 18 - 23, 2020 Priced from $2895 per person, double occupancy including airfare Moderate activity level Philadelphia, Amish Country & the Brandywine Valley- Unpack your bags one time for this 5 night single hotel stay in Philadelphia. Enjoy Valley Forge National Historic Park, a Philadelphia City tour and Independence Hall & the Liberty Bell. Discover the National Constitution Center, Brandy Wine Valley, Two Dupont Mansions and Hershey’s Chocolate World. Explore the Pennsylvania Amish Country and enjoy an Amish Farm house and family style dinner. Premier World Discovery 877-953-8687 premierworlddiscovery.com Crusing Patagonia's Chilean Fjords 12-day land and sea journey October 25 - November 5, 2020 Priced from $6995 per person, double occupancy Moderate activity level From the Tierra del Fuego Archipelago to Glacier Alley, experience the diversity of Patagonia on this unique, 12-day land and sea journey. Cruise aboard the expedition ship Tella Australis, designed specifically for the Chilean fjords, Beagle Channel and Strait of Megellan. Visit an award-winning winery near Santiago. Easter island Pre-program and Strait and Buenos Aires/Iguazu Falls Post Program options are offered. Gohagan & Company 800-922-3088 gohagantravel.com Contact SMU Maps and Directions Legal Disclosures © Southern Methodist University, PO Box 750100, Dallas, TX 75275