LionPATH Support Known Issues News Upcoming Changes Contacts FAQs Interface FAQs Student/Family FAQs Access to LionPATH Billing Registration Faculty/Staff FAQs Advising Reporting/iTwo Records and Enrollment Security Technical Training Help Student Help Parent/Family Help Faculty/Staff Faculty/Staff Enhancement Request Form You are here: Home LionPATH Login and Support Students, Faculty, Staff Login Parents & Families Login LionPATH HELP Good support is key to LionPATH’s success, and is part of the team’s ongoing responsibility. We are partnering with the many functional offices who comprise the extended LionPATH network. Because there are many of you and only a few of us on the LionPATH team, we will direct you to the appropriate functional office or to Service Now–Penn State’s online ticketing system to submit a service request. Please use this site to determine who can best help you with your questions and to check whether your problem is one we have already logged and will soon fix. (March 14, 2022, 9:30 a.m.) Managers, The annual access review period for LionPATH and Workday is set to kick off on March 23, 2022. We announced in January via Penn State Today and in an email to all managers on January 17 that this review plays an important role in the security of our Penn State enterprise systems. As a manager responsible for overseeing access, you will have 30 days from March 23 to complete access reviews using IdentityIQ (IIQ). The project team and Penn State IT Learning and Development have created a set of training materials, including job aids, FAQs, and recorded demonstrations to help you learn the new processes and software you will need. Resources for the Annual Access Review In the IIQ: Annual Access Review Knowledge Base article, you’ll find job aids and videos to help you: Learn about the annual access review process Complete general tasks within IIQ, such as performing an access review Navigate the different access tasks specific to certain systems Resources for Position Change Access Review In the IIQ: Position Change Access Review Knowledge Base article, you’ll find job aids and videos to help you: Learn about the access review process triggered by Workday position changes Complete general tasks within IIQ, such as performing a position change access review Navigate the different access tasks specific to certain systems Questions and Support The Penn State IT Service Desk is available to answer your IIQ questions through the Penn State IT Support website. We appreciate your support with this important security initiative and invite you to share your questions with us at any time. Sincerely, Michael J. Büsges Interim Vice President & Chief Information Officer The Pennsylvania State University Submit a Service Request If you are experiencing an issue with LionPATH, submit a service request, and the appropriate person will get back with you. Copyright 2022 © The Pennsylvania State University Privacy Non-Discrimination Equal Opportunity Accessibility Legal Skip to toolbar Sites at Penn State Log In Search