Skip to main content Calendar Films & Podcasts Venues Stanford Students Community Support Magazine Cart eNews Donate Search form SearchSearch Search form SearchSearch Doctor Sindiwe Magona at the Amy Biehl memorial site in Gugulethu. Do Not Fear the Past featuring Donita Volkwijn, soprano and the Astraeus Quartet Call Box Office: 650.724.2464 WHEN: Fri, April 29, 2022 at 7:00pm PTPast Event VENUE: Bing Studio Configuration: Cabaret (seated) COST: $25 This show is general admission seating. All prices and programs subject to change. A multidisciplinary collaboration led by Stanford professor of classics Grant Parker and music lecturer Marie-Louise Catsalis, Do Not Fear the Past reorients South Africa’s past and examines the relationship between the ethics of commemoration and the process of reconciliation and forgiveness. The Bay-Area based Astraeus Quartet will perform South African composer Bongani Ndodana-Breen’s newly commissioned piece Do not fear the past, which is based on Zuhura Seng’enge’s poem of the same title. Featuring soprano Donita Volkwijn, visual elements by Stanford alum and artist Jordan Reist, and texts read by Stanford students, the performance portrays an oblique response to the death of Stanford alumna Amy Biehl (1967-93) during her stint as Fulbright fellow in Cape Town, South Africa in the lead-up to that country’s first democratic election. Staff and students of the Amy Foundation as well as Stanford students in the university’s Bing Overseas Studies Program developed and workshopped Do Not Fear the Past in Cape Town during the summer of 2018. The result is a powerful exploration and questioning of remembrance and reconciliation amid tragedy that urgently seeks ways forward. Arts + Justice Research Workshop Reorienting the Past in South Africa: An Artist Talk with Bongani Ndodana-Breen and Grant Parker Friday, January 28 at 12:00 PM Zoom Bongani Ndodana-Breen’s new musical composition, ‘Do not fear the past’, renders Zuhura Seng’enge’s poem of the same title in a setting for soprano solo and string quartet. It anchors a program that explores and questions the nature of remembrance and reconciliation amid tragedy. The result of a commission, his ‘Do not fear the past’ is an oblique response to the death of Stanford alumna, Amy Biehl (1967-93) during her stint as Fulbright fellow in Cape Town, South Africa, in the lead-up to that country’s first democratic election. It will be performed at the Bing Concert Hall (Studio) in April 2022. This event is an opportunity to discuss aesthetic, ethical and political dimensions of the work and its genesis.Watch Recording Acknowledgements Supported by the Office of the Vice President for the Arts and by the National Endowment for the Arts. Program View the digital program here. Video Tags Genres Chamber, Classical Presenters Stanford Live Series Stanford Live 21-22 Season Related Events Night in Bohemia with the SF Symphony Jul 8, 2022 Frost Amphitheater Time for Three with the SF Symphony Jul 15, 2022 Frost Amphitheater Call Box Office: 650.724.2464 WHEN: Fri, April 29, 2022 at 7:00pm PTPast Event VENUE: Bing Studio Configuration: Cabaret (seated) COST: $25 This show is general admission seating. All prices and programs subject to change. Mask and Vaccine Policy All visitors (adults and children) coming to Stanford Live are required to show proof of full vaccination against COVID-19 OR receive a negative COVID-19 test within 48 hours prior to arrival onsite. Fully vaccinated means it has been at least two weeks after your final dose of a vaccine. Boosters are not required. As of March 2, 2022 masks are no longer required for indoor performances but are strongly recommended. We encourage you to continue wearing masks for the comfort of our patrons, staff, and artists. Visit our Health and Safety page for more info. Policy is subject to change. By reﬂecting on Amy Biehl’s story and her parents' circuitous journey toward understanding, we start to see reconciliation as a process that evolves and shifts, and doesn’t necessarily arrive. Biehl’s life touched so manyatStanford.Welookforwardto bringing those voices together for a deeper discussion of her life and the forces of historical and personal reconciliation. —Laura Evans, Associate Director of Campus Engagement Bing Studio Seating Configurations Tickets & Policies Discount & Group Sales Directions & Parking Accessibility & Services FAQ Health & Safety Stanford Live About Contact Staff Press Jobs & Internships Account Manage My Account View Cart Privacy Policy Tickets & Policies 2021–22 Season FAQs Campus Partners Stanford Arts Department of Music Theater & Performance Studies Connect Season Sponsor Stanford Live About Contact Staff Press Jobs & Internships Frost Amphitheater Tickets & Policies Directions & Parking What to Bring Food & Drink Accessibility & Services Campus Partners Stanford Arts Department of Music Theater & Performance Studies Connect eNews Sign-up Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademark Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305