Skip to main content Main navigation Home My Housing Sign-Up Campus Life On Campus Safety Dining Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Fitness Living Learning Communities Student Involvement Hall Life Housing Options Housing Rates Residence Halls On-Campus Apartments Contracts and Leases Work With Us Maintenance Request Contact Us Michigan State UniversityMichigan State University Search Tool Search Live On | Residence Education and Housing Services Open Menu Menu Home On the Banks of the Red Cedar Welcome Class of 2026 2022 Summer Housing Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Explore Our Neighborhoods See all there is to offer on the banks of the Red Cedar Already signed up? Check your status here Xfinity On Campus Services Now at MSU! MSU Student Life and Engagement and MSU Information Technology are pleased to announce that on-campus residents now have access to Xfinity On Campus services! In addition to the cable service we’ve provided for a number of years, Xfinity on Campus offers live TV, Xfinity on Demand and Cloud DVR. Read More > On-Campus Health and Safety Being a part of the MSU community means we all must take personal responsibility in order to protect the health and safety of ourselves and one other. Live On has worked diligently with university partners to ensure campus is safe for all who visit or reside here Read More > Upcoming Virtual Engagement Programs Live On will host a variety of virtual engagement sessions to connect with current and incoming Spartans. These sessions will inform students and their families about various topics related to housing and dining at Michigan State University. Be sure to check this page regularly for updates and new opportunities. Also, follow @MSULiveOn on social media to learn more about the on-campus experience! Read More > Find More Features > #SpartansLiveOn Have Questions? We have answers Contact Us Equal Housing Opportunity Looking for a Job? There are opportunities available within your residence hall. Have a Maintenance Request? submit one here or find additional services/assistance Need Police Assistance? Non-Emergency Line: (517) 355-2221 | Emergency: Call 911 | Visit the MSU Police Website The Division of Residential and Hospitality Services includes: Call us: (517) 884-5483 Contact Information Privacy Statement Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Notice of Nondiscrimination Spartans Will. © Michigan State University Michigan State UniversityMichigan State University