University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Protect Texas Together Search MENUMENU Academics and Student Success Financial Aid and Tuition Career and Professional Campus and Community MENUMENU MENUMENU LONGHORNS ONLINE Academics and Student Success Financial Aid and Tuition Career and Professional Campus and Community Academics and Student Success Maximize your learning experience using resources for finding the right classes and getting the support and assistance you need to continue on your journey towards graduation. Academic Support The 360 Connections team is committed to supporting first-year students. If you have questions, need support, or would like to schedule a time to meet, please email the 360 Connections team. Academic advisors (PDF download) are available for virtual and in-person appointments. The best way to find out how your academic advisor is connecting with students is by emailing your advisor. Advisors check and respond to email regularly and are prepared to continue supporting students learning remotely and in person. Sanger Learning Center offers a range of support services, including academic counseling, test reviews and tutoring. Sign up online or call 512-471-3614. The Graduation Help Desk is here to help you stay on track to your expected graduation date. If after speaking with your academic advisor you still need help enrolling in a class you need to fulfill your degree requirements, consult the Graduation Help Desk’s frequently asked questions, then email graduationhelpdesk@utexas.edu if you need further assistance. The University Writing Center (UWC) is offering appointments through Google Hangouts Meet. Visit UWC appointments for more information or to schedule an appointment. You can also email uwcdesk@utexas.edu, call 512-471-6222 and leave a message, or visit the UWC website to live chat with a consultant. Services for Students with Disabilities Based in the philosophy that all students should be assured equal access and opportunity, Services for Students with Disabilities works to eliminate physical, instructional and attitudinal barriers by providing reasonable accommodations and fostering awareness within the University community. Student Emergency Services, Office of the Dean of Students Academic difficulties may arise as the result of personal hardships or crisis situations. Student Emergency Services helps students navigate academic options and can help coordinate services with advisors and student deans. Student Ombuds The Student Ombuds is here to listen to your concerns in a safe setting about life at the university and confidentially discuss interpersonal difficulties, university policies, university bureaucracy, and conflict resolution techniques. They help you identify options so you can seek resolution. College-Specific Resources Below is a list of online resources from the colleges across campus: College of Liberal Arts Online Course Program Web Support Lectures Online College of Education College of Fine Arts Cockrell School of Engineering College of Natural Sciences CNS Cornerstones provides resources and guideposts to support CNS students’ success throughout their four years TIDES is your one-stop shop for connecting with academic experiences in and out of the classroom to enhance your undergraduate education as a Natural Sciences student. Student Support Services Health Professions COVID-19 FAQs for CNS Students Graduate School LBJ School of Public Affairs McCombs School of Business Moody College of Communication School of Architecture SOA Success Scholars Undergraduate Office Canvas Course COVID-Resources and Guidance School of Law Undergraduate Studies Learning at Protect Texas Together Find your advisor’s contact information on Texas One Stop or in the How to Schedule With an Advisor document. Learn about career and professional development resources available through your college/school career center. Honors and Success Programs Students that are in honors or success programs are encouraged to visit the websites linked below to connect with their colleges: Cockrell School of Engineering Engineering Honors Program Ramshorn Scholars College of Education Texas Education Scholars College of Liberal Arts Foundation Scholars Liberal Arts Honors Program College of Natural Sciences Dean’s Scholars Health Science Scholars Human Ecology Honors Polymathic Scholars Texas Interdisciplinary Program (TIP) Turing Scholars McCombs School of Business Canfield Business Honors Program McCombs Success Scholars Moody College of Communication Moody College Honors Program Moody College Success Scholars School of Nursing Nursing Honors Program School of Undergraduate Studies Discovery Scholars Steve Hicks School of Social Work Social Work Honors Program Social Work Education Enhancement Program (SWEEP) Interdisciplinary Gateway Scholars (Division of Diversity and Community Engagement) Plan II Honors Program Presidential Scholars & Texas Excellence Texas Honors Computer Science and Business (Texas CSB) University Leadership Network UT for Me – Powered by Dell Scholars UT Libraries The University of Texas Libraries are operating with modified services. The Perry–Castañeda Library (PCL) is open with independent study space for students, faculty and staff. The Reading Rooms at the Life Science Library are open for independent study only. All other Libraries locations, including The Foundry, are currently closed. Check out the Libraries Services Continuity Guide for up-to-date information about services and resources available. Student Success Checklist Before You Begin Your Class(es) Have the tools for success Work with your instructor to be sure you have the materials you need to be successful in the course. If you do not have the textbooks, writing materials, technology or other tools that you need, make sure you have enough time to purchase, prepare, or repair, as needed.If you need assistance in financing your course needs, please contact Texas One Stop to review your financial aid package for the semester and discuss increasing your current financial aid to cover any necessary purchases.You may complete the Cost of Attendance appeal form to request a review of your financial aid to allow for computer and other technology needs, such as wifi, webcams, hotspots, etc. You may be offered additional loans or grants to cover those expenses depending on your financial aid eligibility. Do a test run for classes with online components. Go to Online Canvas Pre-Check to help you get ready to join your UT online course(s). UT has implemented multi-factor authentication (MFA) using Duo for many university web applications, including Canvas. Learn more here, including how to get started. Be sure you have upgraded Zoom: Signing In and Out of Zoom.Need help? Troubleshooting resources are available at the ITS Service Desk. Phone: 512-475-9400 Email: help@utexas.edu Hours are Monday through Friday from 6 a.m.–10 p.m. and weekends 10 a.m.–5 p.m. Find space and time to do your coursework To create an atmosphere that will motivate you to do your best work, identify a space where you can focus on your coursework free from noise and distractions. Set up a dedicated learning environment for studying.Schedule consistent, multi-hour blocks of time during the week that you can devote to coursework and try to adhere to this schedule. Prioritize your work. What due dates are coming up first? What information is the most important for you to learn? What assignments are worth the most points? Make a smart decision about how to best spend your time. Ask questions Whether you are looking to get started on the course, are having trouble finding or accessing materials, or just want to say hi, it’s never a bad idea to contact your instructor before the course begins. Just be sure to tell them your name, identify the course in which you are enrolled, and clearly ask any questions you have. During Your Class(es) Engage with your courses Download and review all course syllabi: Familiarize yourself with your instructor’s policies before the first day of class. Be sure to pay attention to important due dates and grading procedures. You should also find your instructors’ contact information, how they’d like to be contacted, and office hours. Engage with your class: Preview and review before every lesson, attend in-person/online class sessions and actively take notes. Analyze all returned quizzes and tests as well as any instructor feedback and develop a plan for improvement. Communicate regularly with your instructor: Your instructors want to help and have provided you with at least one reliable way to contact them. Email them. Check the syllabus or Canvas and engage in virtual office hours. Students with answered questions and heard concerns are far more likely to be successful than their peers who did not communicate with their professors. Watch this video from the Sanger Learning Center where two UT professors discuss real-life emails from students and offer tips for professional communication. Download the Canvas Student smartphone app for course management The Canvas Student app, which is available on iOS and Android devices, allows you to access grades and course content, submit assignments, send and receive messages, and more! Even if you complete most of your coursework from a laptop or desktop computer, this app is handy for managing your time and work from anywhere. Engage with your peers Whether it’s through Canvas, a smartphone app, text messages or in-person meetings, it’s a good idea to communicate regularly with your classmates. Compare notes or form study groups — you’ll benefit if you do so. Be socialStay connected with the university and your peers by following our official UT accounts: UT Facebook UT Instagram UT Twitter UT YouTube Completing Your Class(es) Prepare for your final exam When is your final exam? Where? How? Are you prepared? Is there a practice test to take? Schedule a Learning Specialist appointment at the Sanger Learning Centerto make a strategy for finals. Know your deadlines Whether you need to Add or Drop a courseor just find out more about grading options, make sure to connect with your Academic Advisorfor help and support. After, be sure to discuss any questions about adding, dropping or withdrawing with a Texas One Stop staff member to be sure you understand the impacts on your educational finances. Fill out your surveys The Course Instructor Survey(CIS) is the student’s opportunity to anonymously share thoughts about classes and instructors. UT depends on students to provide honest and fair feedback about their classroom experience because that feedback is an important factor in making many decisions. Get access to your grades Grade reportsare available to all students, except students in the School of Law and Dell Medical School, at the end of each semester and summer session. If you need to access your official transcript or other ways to document your success, you may view the options on the Transcripts and Other Recordspage of the Texas One Stop website. You did it! Celebrate your completion of your course! Thank those around you who helped you succeed this semester or session. Quick Links Canvas My UT Protect Texas Together Division of Student Affairs Housing and Dining COVID-19 FAQs Texas One Stop © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Canvas My UT Protect Texas Together Division of Student Affairs Housing and Dining COVID-19 FAQs Texas One Stop UT Home Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Emergency Information