University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Protect Texas Together Search MENUMENU Academics and Student Success Financial Aid and Tuition Career and Professional Campus and Community MENUMENU MENUMENU LONGHORNS ONLINE Academics and Student Success Financial Aid and Tuition Career and Professional Campus and Community Financial Aid and Tuition Assistance Financial aid awards and tuition rates will be the same whether your classes are online, hybrid, or in-person. Find all the different ways UT can offer financial assistance, including grants, scholarships, and loans, to help you fund your UT education. Direct Deposit Direct deposit is an easy, secure method that transfers funds directly and automatically to your bank account. Direct deposit can be set up in UT Direct. For instructions and additional information, visit Set up Direct Deposit for Your Refunds. If you did not sign up for direct deposit, a paper check will be sent to the address we have on file. To update your address, make an online Address Change in UT Direct. Financial Aid Notification Students will receive a Financial Aid Notification (FAN) through Check Aid Status Here (CASH) in UT Direct. You must activate your FAN to receive your financial awards. For help on how to activate your FAN, visit Understanding Your Aid on Texas One Stop or view the How to Accept Your FAN video. Types of Financial Aid UT offers a variety of financial aid opportunities to help students pay for their UT education. Eligibility for aid is based on financial and household information that is reported on your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). In addition, you must meet certain eligibility requirements. Grants: Need-based aid that does not need to be repaid Scholarships: Need-based, and sometimes merit-based, aid that does not need to be repaid Loans: Borrowed aid that needs to be repaid, with interest, after graduation Emergency Loans: Borrowed aid that is available during emergency situations Work-Study: Part-time jobs for students with financial need, allowing you to earn money to help pay for educational expenses Food and Financial Assistance UT Outpost Food Pantry The UT Outpost food pantry will provide the food assistance to currently enrolled students. For the safety of our students and staff, the UT Outpost has suspended its physical operations and moved to an online order and contactless pickup operation for the Fall 2020 semester. Student Emergency Fund, Student Emergency Services, Office of the Dean of Students The Student Emergency Fund exists to support the financial wellness and personal wellbeing of our students. The fund aims to provide financial support when a verified emergency has impacted a student’s health, safety, or wellbeing. Emergency Loans, Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid Students may apply for borrowed aid that is available during emergency situations. Emergency Loans, International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS), Texas Global Students can apply for tuition or emergency cash loans. 2-1-1 Texas A comprehensive list of support services across the state of Texas, by zipcode. Graduate Students Teaching Assistantships and Fellowships are a source of aid for graduate students, but they can affect the amount of financial aid you receive. For more information, visit Teaching Assistantships & Fellowships on Texas One Stop. International Students Dedicated information about scholarships, funding opportunities, and other financial services for international students is available on the Texas Global website. Quick Links Canvas My UT Protect Texas Together Division of Student Affairs Housing and Dining COVID-19 FAQs Texas One Stop © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Canvas My UT Protect Texas Together Division of Student Affairs Housing and Dining COVID-19 FAQs Texas One Stop UT Home Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Emergency Information