University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Protect Texas Together Search MENUMENU Academics and Student Success Financial Aid and Tuition Career and Professional Campus and Community MENUMENU MENUMENU LONGHORNS ONLINE Academics and Student Success Financial Aid and Tuition Career and Professional Campus and Community Career and Professional Guidance There are many career and professional development resources available to undergraduate, graduate and professional students across UT. You can access tailored career resources through your college/school career center, as well as additional resources available to all students through Texas Career Engagement. Access Career Services UT Austin students can access comprehensive career services. Connect with your college/school career center to explore tailored resources including : Career and Internship Coaching: Get help with writing resumes, researching career options, translating your skills for the workplace, interviewing, negotiating an offer, gaining professional development and much more Workshops/Webinars: Learn more about a variety of career-related topics through interactive workshops and webinars Recruiting: Connect with employers through interview opportunities, career fairs, info sessions, presentations and more And, more You can also explore Texas Career Engagement for access to: Career Counseling: Get help with career assessments, career exploration, major selection, grad school planning and personal reflection (who am I, what do I want, and what is fulfilling to me) Career & Internship Coaching Around Identity: Meet with a career education specialist to explore career topics through the lens of identity (ex. Ethnicity, culture identity, LGBTQIA+, first-generation status, veteran status, disability status, etc.) HireUTexas powered by Handshake: Campus-wide job board for opportunities from work-study jobs to internships to professional careers Self-Guided Tools: Access a number of online career tools, including Interstride for international careers, Big Interview for AI-based interview help and LinkedIn Masterclass for help maximizing your LinkedIn account Networking: Create your account on HookedIn, the official networking platform for UT Austin students and alumni, where you can connect with alumni for career development and mentorship Get Help Figuring Out What You Want to Do Students who are unsure of their next move, either with their major or career, may find career counseling helpful. Career counseling is more than figuring out what job you may want. It gets at bigger questions like, who am I, what do I want, and what is fulfilling to me. Career counseling appointments are available to all UT Austin students. Learn more and schedule your career counseling appointment. Make an Appointment to Get Career Help Explore your career and internship coaching options and learn how to make a career appointment for help: Crafting tailored resumes and cover letters Honing your interview skills and participating in Mock interviews Developing a 4-year plan and/or career development strategy Researching career industries, organizations and job titles Searching for and applying to internship and other experiential programs Accessing and using job boards and other online recruiting systems Connecting your academic experiences with your professional interests Making the most of on-campus recruiting events including career fairs, information sessions, on-campus interviewing, and cross-school events And much more. Plan for Graduate School, Law School and Health Professions All UT Austin students have access to specialized advising for help pursuing the following pre-professional and advanced degree paths. Learn more and make a grad school planning appointment. Graduate School Advising: Career counselors at Texas Career Engagement help students explore options for graduate or professional school. Law School Admissions Coaching: The College of Liberal Arts law school admissions coach offers comprehensive support, including considering and preparing for law school and navigating the application process. Health Professions Advising: The Health Professions Office offers support exploring and preparing for applications to health professions schools, including pre-medical, pre-dental, pre-physician assistant, pre-pharmacy, pre-optometry, pre-physical therapy, pre-occupational therapy and pre-veterinary studies. Start Your Virtual Job or Internship Search Job Boards: UT Austin students can access comprehensive online job and internship search resources, including HireUTexas powered by Handshake, the university’s all-inclusive job board; curated job feeds; college and school specific job boards; and professional networking tools such as HookedIn and LinkedIn. College and School Career Centers: Each college and school offers career services, employer connections and resources designed for and tailored to their population of majors. Connect with your college or school career center. Who’s Hiring: Explore Texas ’21 and Beyond to find resources for your online job/internship search, employers currently hiring UT graduates, job search strategies and more. Career & Internship Coaching: Make a career appointment for help creating a personalized job search strategy and managing your search. Understand Virtual Internship Options: Explore the Texas Career Engagement Virtual Experiences page to access internship posting sites and for help learning about virtual experiences, such as virtual internships, micro-internships and experiences such as freelance work, gigs, academic projects and part-time jobs. Internship Courses: Meet with your academic advisor to discuss opportunities to earn academic credits for your internship. Some degrees have internship requirements, so be sure you know what those requirements are. You can also enroll in a zero-credit Internships & Career Experiences Course offered by Texas Career Engagement, so that your experience will appear on your transcript. Graduate Students Career Advising for Graduate Students Career Advising and Resources for International Graduate Students College and School Career Centers Quick Links Canvas My UT Protect Texas Together Division of Student Affairs Housing and Dining COVID-19 FAQs Texas One Stop © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Canvas My UT Protect Texas Together Division of Student Affairs Housing and Dining COVID-19 FAQs Texas One Stop UT Home Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Emergency Information