University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Protect Texas Together Search MENUMENU Academics and Student Success Financial Aid and Tuition Career and Professional Campus and Community MENUMENU MENUMENU LONGHORNS ONLINE Academics and Student Success Financial Aid and Tuition Career and Professional Campus and Community Campus and Community Discover opportunities to explore campus, connect with fellow students, and further engage with the local and international University of Texas at Austin community. Navigating Campus Find your way around the Forty Acres with our interactive, mobile-friendly map or take a 360° look at some of our most beloved campus spots on our Look Around Virtual Tour. For in-person visit opportunities, check out our Admissions website. On your phone? Download the MyUT Austin mobile app to access the campus map, your class schedule, Canvas and more on the go. To manage parking on and around campus, see the UT Shuttle System service calendar and map, learn about free safe campus travel programs like UT Night Rides and Sure Walk, and more, visit the Parking and Transportation Services website. Finding Community Longhorns form over 1,300 student organizations, and you can find the events and groups that appeal to your interests by exploring HornsLink. See what’s happening on and around campus by perusing the UT Events Calendar. Get involved with Student Government, which has served as the official voice of the UT student body since 1902. UT is also home to several award-winning student-run media entities, including The Daily Texan newspaper, KVRX 91.7 FM, and Texas Student Television. The Division of Diversity and Community Engagement is a national model for integrating diversity and community engagement into the core mission of a university. Their work to create a more inclusive campus includes supporting the Multicultural Engagement Center and the Gender and Sexuality Center, two student resource offices that help serve students of color, women and members of the LGBTQIA+ communities. Looking for a way to connect with current Longhorns, alumni and possible employers? Join HookedIn, the official UT networking platform. Sports and Recreation Texas Athletics Want to learn more about your favorite Longhorn sports? Texas Athletics is the place to go. Watch exciting videos featuring highlights and interviews with student-athletes and coaches and check out Forty Acres Insider for important news happening in and around Texas Athletics. Spirit and enthusiasm run deep at UT, and fans like you are a big part of the unique history and legacy of achievements that make us all so proud. Recreational Sports Access to RecSports facilities is just a scan away any time you’re enrolled in classes! Use your UT student ID to work out and play in seven facilities featuring courts, fields, running tracks, weight rooms, functional training spaces, swimming pools, and more. RecSports also offers a variety of programs including group exercise classes, intramural sports, sport clubs, adventure trips, and rock climbing to enhance your fitness and recreation experience on the Forty Acres. Learn more at utrecsports.org. Health and Well-Being Longhorn TIES For students who identify as being the on the autism spectrum, the Longhorn TIES (Transition, Inclusion, Empower, Success) initiative seeks to enhance the student experience beginning at new student orientation, and continuing throughout their academic career. Housed within New Student Services, TIES provides individualized coaching services, academic support, social and career-related supports, social events and much more to eligible students, as well as faculty and staff. Services for Students with Disabilities Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) engages strives to make the university a more inclusive, accessible and welcoming environment for people with disabilities. SSD ensures students with disabilities have equal access to their academic experiences at UT by determining eligibility and approving reasonable accommodations. The Counseling and Mental Health Center and University Health Services The Counseling and Mental Health Center (CMHC) is providing counseling and psychiatric services to support students via telehealth. Learn more about CMHC’s services. University Health Services (UHS) remains open during normal business hours (Monday through Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.) to provide care for most health concerns through telemedicine, including evaluation of COVID-19. To make an appointment, visit the UHS website. Self-care activities can be found here. For crises after hours or on weekends, please call the CMHC Crisis Line at 512-471-2255, which is available 24/7. Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line Are you worried about a student in your class, bothered that your roommate has been acting differently, or concerned about the behavior of a co-worker? Do you have questions about COVID-19 and need support or resources? If so, contact the Behavior Concerns and COVID-19 Advice Line at 512-232-5050 or submit your behavior concerns or COVID-19 questions online. Thrive at UT App Thrive at UT is a free app designed to enhance UT student well-being and help busy students live their best life. Thrive helps you make small changes in your routine that have powerful long-term impacts. International Opportunities Longhorn learning opportunities aren’t limited to the Forty Acres. Check out Global Learning Opportunities on Campus and Explore Abroad to learn more about the many ways to participate in a global virtual exchange, internship and education abroad, intercultural programs, global professional training, and more. Quick Links Canvas My UT Protect Texas Together Division of Student Affairs Housing and Dining COVID-19 FAQs Texas One Stop © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Canvas My UT Protect Texas Together Division of Student Affairs Housing and Dining COVID-19 FAQs Texas One Stop UT Home Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Emergency Information