Latest updates on campus operations and resources related to COVID-19 › Close University of Texas at Austin University of Texas at Austin logo Protect Texas Together Search MENUMENU Academics and Student Success Financial Aid and Tuition Career and Professional Campus and Community MENUMENU MENUMENU LONGHORNS ONLINE Academics and Student Success Financial Aid and Tuition Career and Professional Campus and Community Welcome, Longhorns, to your hub for campus resources Find academic support, navigate financial aid and career opportunities, and forge new connections with your fellow Longhorns. MyUT App Current students can also access resources through MyUT, the online student portal for The University of Texas at Austin. Students can use the MyUT website and mobile app to see Canvas, your class schedule, and personalized financial aid and registration information all in one place. Download MyUT on AppStore Download MyUT on Google Play Academics and Student Success Longhorns are committed to excellence and exploration, whatever degree they are pursuing. Make the most of your learning experience and find the support you need with resources like academic advisors, Graduation Help Desk, Services for Students with Disabilities and more. Learn More › Financial Aid and Tuition Support We understand how important it is to manage costs and keep your student debt low while attending UT. Discover a variety of financial aid opportunities, including grants, scholarships and loans, that we offer to help students fund their UT education. Learn More › Career and Professional Resources Explore career options, schedule an appointment for career advice, learn how to complement academics with experiential learning, develop professional skills, connect with employers for internships and employment, and prepare for advanced-degree programs. Learn More › Campus and Community The college experience isn’t just about what takes place in the classroom — it’s also about discovering new interests, refining your skills and meeting peers who share your passions. Challenge yourself, find community and start changing the world by joining student organizations, attending campus events, visiting the Multicultural Engagement Center and Gender and Sexuality Center, and more. Learn More › Longhorn Friday is a way for UT students, staff, faculty, alumni and fans everywhere to show their Texas spirit, and it’s as simple as wearing burnt orange or the Longhorn silhouette every Friday. Share a photo on social media using: #LonghornFriday Learn More © The University of Texas at Austin 2022 Canvas My UT Protect Texas Together Division of Student Affairs Housing and Dining COVID-19 FAQs Texas One Stop UT Home Web Privacy Policy Web Accessibility Emergency Information