Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech-Lorraine EUROPEAN CAMPUS – METZ, FRANCE Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: GTL President GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report People Faculty Staff Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 Undergraduate Programs GO Why GTL? Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Scholarships & Assistants Apply Withdrawal & Refund Policy Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Campus Life Questions Important Information Regarding Insurance LIVE Metz Campus Graduate Programs GO Why GTL? Degree Focus Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Fellowships Apply FAQ - MS (non-dual degree) Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Partner Institutions Accepted Students Questions LIVE Metz Campus Atlanta Campus Apply Undergraduate Graduate Coronavirus Withdrawal & Refund Policy Français EU GDPR Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Home > Apply > APPLY NOW! Graduate Students You are here: GT Home APPLY NOW! Graduate Students There is no formal application for Georgia Tech-Lorraine at the graduate level. Masters and Ph.D students must apply to and be accepted by a graduate program in Aerospace Engineering, Computer Science, Electrical & Computer Engineering, or Mechanical Engineering at the Georgia Institute of Technology, indicating "GT-Lorraine" as their campus of choice. Incoming students apply via Georgia Tech's main campus in Atlanta, and after two semesters on the Lorraine campus, have the option to either complete their degree in France, or request a transfer to the Atlanta campus for their third semester. Students on the thesis track only can spend two semesters in Atlanta and will be eligible for Optional Practical Training (OPT). If you are currently in an MS engineering program on the Atlanta campus (any major), you may spend a semester at Georgia Tech-Lorraine by simply requesting a change in campus from "Atlanta" to "Lorraine." Please refer to the Georgia Tech-Lorraine decision deadlines below. Visit Georgia Tech's Graduate Studies page for information on starting your application to Georgia Tech. Online Application Procedures for Students New to Georgia Tech Apply through the Georgia Tech online application interface. For “Program of Study,” select “Masters.” For “Planned Campus,” select “GT-Lorraine.” After completing your online application, you will be permitted to check the status by logging into "Status Checking" at www.gradadmiss.gatech.edu. Procedure for Current Georgia Tech Students Contact gtl-france@gtl.gatech.edu to let us know of your intent to study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Request that your advisor change your campus from "Atlanta" to "Lorraine", copying gtl-france@gtl.gatech.edu, referring to the deadlines listed on the graduate deadline page. There is no formal application - once you have the approval of your advisor, the GTL Atlanta team wil work with you on the logistics of getting to Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Procedure for Students in the OMSCS Program Students who are currently enrolled in the Online Master of Science Program in Computer Science may be eligible to spend a semester or more at Georgia Tech-Lorraine after completing and showing grades for at least two semesters in the OMSCS program. Please review our Eligibility page for additional details. Interested students who are currently in their second semester or more should reach out to gtl-france@gtl.gatech.edu for more information. In your email, please include your GTID along with the specialization you are pursuing in the OMSCS program, along with the semester(s) you'd like to participate. All requests to study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine will be reviewed, and then either approved or denied, on an individual basis by the College of Computing. Admissions requirements and application deadlines for the masters program vary by school: Please note that Georgia Tech-Lorraine's decision deadlines are driven by the visa process. The earlier you let us know you plan to attend the Lorraine campus, the better! Please do not wait until the deadline dates! Refer to our Deadlines page for dates. NOTES: Dual-degree students should check with Elise Bastien before starting their application to Georgia Tech. Please do not go by the dates listed above. Ms. Bastien will provide guidance on deadlines and on the process. PhD applicants should contact Dr. Bertrand Boussert to discuss the research opportunities at Georgia Tech-Lorraine, and to learn about application deadlines. Key Contacts GTL-Metz Dr. Bertrand Boussert - key contact for academic questions at all levels, and for PhD students Elise Bastien - applications through partner institutions and all housing matters Corinne Guyot - course registrations and visa process for dual-degree students going to Atlanta GTL-Atlanta Andrea Gappell - recruiting for Georgia Tech-Lorraine graduate program Alina Opreanu - logistics and visa process for graduate students going to Georgia Tech-Lorraine Cancellation and Deferment Policy: Please contact us if you have been accepted and need to defer or cancel admission to Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Important Contacts France Georgia Tech-Lorraine 2 Rue Marconi 57070 Metz, France Phone: +33 3 87 20 3939; FAX: +33 3 87 20 3940 Contact Us Dr. Bertrand Boussert (Head of Academic Programs) Corinne Guyot (Graduate Academic & Student Support) Katia Menard Pons (Campus Life) John Fritsch (Corporate Relations / Alumni Affairs) United States Georgia Tech-Lorraine A. French Building, Suite 207-C 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Phone: 404-894-2380; FAX: 404-894-2997 Contacts: Allie Crain (Undergraduate & Graduate enrollment) Catherine Bass (Undergraduate Program questions after acceptance into program) Alina Opreanu (Administrative Affairs and Graduate Program questions after acceptance into program - visas/housing) Andrea Gappell (Marketing, Communications, Strategic Initiatives, Events) Relevant Links About Georgia Tech Virtual Tour of Georgia Tech Georgia Tech International Initiatives Office of Int'l Education (OIE) International Student & Scholars (ISSS) International Plan Our Partners/Nos Partenaires Grand Est Conseil Départementale de la Moselle Eurométropole Metz City of Metz Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login