Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech-Lorraine EUROPEAN CAMPUS – METZ, FRANCE Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: GTL President GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report People Faculty Staff Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 Undergraduate Programs GO Why GTL? Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Scholarships & Assistants Apply Withdrawal & Refund Policy Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Campus Life Questions Important Information Regarding Insurance LIVE Metz Campus Graduate Programs GO Why GTL? Degree Focus Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Fellowships Apply FAQ - MS (non-dual degree) Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Partner Institutions Accepted Students Questions LIVE Metz Campus Atlanta Campus Apply Undergraduate Graduate Coronavirus Withdrawal & Refund Policy Français EU GDPR Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Home > Graduate Programs > Study > Programs You are here: GT Home Programs Explore graduate studies at Georgia Tech-Lorraine Masters and PhD programs are offered in Aerospace Engineering, Computer Science, Electrical and Computer Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering. Graduate degrees may be completed on the Lorraine campus - in the end, the degree is granted by the Georgia Institute of Technology. Click on the brochure below to learn more about our graduate programs. Semester at Georgia Tech-Lorraine All engineering majors at the masters level may spend a semester at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Students must take at least 9 semester hours of courses. Current students in their last semester of study may receive permission to take as few as 6 hours of coursework. Opportunities for PhD students to spend just one semester at Georgia Tech-Lorraine are limited. Students must be self-funded. BS/MS Program Joint BS/MS students may complete the masters portion of their program at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Masters Program Students have the option of doing a thesis or non-thesis masters in Aerospace Engineering, Computer Science, Electrical and Computer Engineering or Mechanical Engineering. The majority of masters students at Georgia Tech-Lorraine choose the non-thesis option. For those students interested in doing the thesis option, we recommend reviewing the various research groups on campus and reaching out to professors directly. There is also the possibility of finding an advisor on the Atlanta campus, and completing one's thesis in Atlanta after spending two semesters on the Lorraine campus. Dual-degree Masters program This innovative program provides students with the opportunity to earn two prestigious degrees - one from Georgia Tech, and one from one of our partner institutions. Students interested in this program do not need to speak French; many of our partner schools offer their programs in English. US and other international students typically will spend their Fall and Spring semesters at GTL completing their MS requirements for Georgia Tech before moving on to the partner institution. Dual-degree students will have the option of completing a masters thesis at the partner institution, or doing an internship. Students already studying at one of our partner institutions should contact their office of International Relations for more information. Contact Dr. Bertrand Boussert for information on academics at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Industry-sponsored MS Thesis Program Students will work on a thesis project sponsored by a company. Over the course of 9 months, students will be teamed with a faculty-researcher to solve a complex R&D issue for the company. In addition to conducting research, students will gain valuable project management skills. In effect, the project will be a 9-month interview for employment with the company! Students and their faculty mentor will meet with the client for a kick-off meeting at the start of the project, and at the 6-month point for a check-in and mid-point evaluation. The project and thesis will culminate with a final presentation to the client. The client will subsidize a portion of the student's living expenses for the duration of the project. Contact Dr. Bertrand Boussert for additional information. Global Engineering Immersion Program (GEIP) This program capitalizes on Georgia Tech’s academic presence in Atlanta, Georgia USA, Metz, France, and Shenzhen, China. Students complete their masters degree in Electrical & Computer Engineering by studying with Georgia Tech on 3 different continents – North America, Europe, and Asia, earning a master's degree in as little as 12 months. Contact the GT-Shenzhen office for more information on the Shenzhen, China portion of the program. Testimony/quote given by GEIP participant, Patrick Weathers PhD Program Click here to see current research positions at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Visit the GT-CNRS UMI website for more information. Important Contacts France Georgia Tech-Lorraine 2 Rue Marconi 57070 Metz, France Phone: +33 3 87 20 3939; FAX: +33 3 87 20 3940 Contact Us Dr. Bertrand Boussert (Head of Academic Programs) Corinne Guyot (Graduate Academic & Student Support) Katia Menard Pons (Campus Life) John Fritsch (Corporate Relations / Alumni Affairs) United States Georgia Tech-Lorraine A. French Building, Suite 207-C 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Phone: 404-894-2380; FAX: 404-894-2997 Contacts: Allie Crain (Undergraduate & Graduate enrollment) Catherine Bass (Undergraduate Program questions after acceptance into program) Alina Opreanu (Administrative Affairs and Graduate Program questions after acceptance into program - visas/housing) Andrea Gappell (Marketing, Communications, Strategic Initiatives, Events) Relevant Links About Georgia Tech Virtual Tour of Georgia Tech Georgia Tech International Initiatives Office of Int'l Education (OIE) International Student & Scholars (ISSS) International Plan Our Partners/Nos Partenaires Grand Est Conseil Départementale de la Moselle Eurométropole Metz City of Metz Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login