Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech-Lorraine EUROPEAN CAMPUS – METZ, FRANCE Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: GTL President GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report People Faculty Staff Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 Undergraduate Programs GO Why GTL? Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Scholarships & Assistants Apply Withdrawal & Refund Policy Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Campus Life Questions Important Information Regarding Insurance LIVE Metz Campus Graduate Programs GO Why GTL? Degree Focus Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Fellowships Apply FAQ - MS (non-dual degree) Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Partner Institutions Accepted Students Questions LIVE Metz Campus Atlanta Campus Apply Undergraduate Graduate Coronavirus Withdrawal & Refund Policy Français EU GDPR Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Home > Undergraduate Programs > Go > Scholarships & Program Assistant Opportunities You are here: GT Home Scholarships & Program Assistant Opportunities WITHDRAWAL & REFUND POLICY There are a number of ways for undergraduates to bring down the cost of studying at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Apply for all that you qualify for! For students currently receiving financial aid, please contact the Office of Financial Aid to see if your award might be affected by your participation in the Georgia Tech-Lorraine program. Scholarships The Hope & Zell Miller Scholarships Applicable to all Georgia Tech-Lorraine undergraduate programs. See Office of Financial Aid for details. Rules can change from semester to semester, so we advise you to check with the Financial Aid office to see if there are any special requirements for your award, for example, a minimum number of semester hours which may differ from Georgia Tech-Lorraine's required hours. The Georgia Tech-Lorraine Challenge Scholarship The Georgia Tech-Lorraine Challenge Scholarship is a need-based scholarship established to support outstanding Georgia Tech undergraduate students who might not be able to participate in a program of study through Georgia Tech-Lorraine, without financial assistance. The Georgia Tech-Lorraine Endowment Fund, which funds this scholarship, is comprised of donations from alumni and friends of Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Four undergraduate Challenge Fund Scholarships will be granted each year, as follows: $ 1,000 each* – to two (2) current Georgia Tech undergraduate students (U.S. citizen or International Student) spending the Spring or Fall semester at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Note: there will be two recipients for Spring and two for the Fall semester. Deadline to apply for Fall is June 15; decision made by the end of July. Deadline to apply for Spring is November 15; decision made by the end of December. The scholarships will be awarded to students who are admitted to the Georgia Tech-Lorraine program, and based on the following criteria: Financial need Review of Challenge Scholarship - Fall 2022 or Challenge Scholarship - Spring 2023 application Personal reasons for wishing to attend GTL Future professional goals Personal situation and circumstances explaining why you are applying for the Scholarship Applications will be reviewed by a committee, in coordination with the Office of Financial Aid. Please complete the GTL Challenge Scholarship - Fall 2022 or Challenge Scholarship - Spring 2023 application online. (please follow the instructions on the application as to where to send the requested letters of recommendation) The Office of International Education (OIE) Scholarships for Study Abroad OIE administers scholarships and there are many other study abroad scholarships available. Application deadline: Please check the OIE link below for deadlines. Please follow this link to the OIE page for more information on additional scholarships Program Assistants Details to be posted. Georgia Tech-Lorraine Blogger Contest The Georgia Tech-Lorraine Blogger Contest (open to undergraduate students only) Each Fall and Spring semester we will select one student each semester to become the Georgia Tech-Lorraine Blogger. Applicants will need to demonstrate their willingness and ability to write approximately 3 weekly blog posts for our blog, in exchange for being paid as a Program Assistant (5 hours per week), To Georgia Tech-Lorraine...and Beyond! - To apply, students must already be accepted into the Georgia Tech-Lorraine program. This contest is open to all undergraduate students, including transient students. The blog is focused on the student experience on the Metz campus. The link to apply is below. Please reach out to Allie Crain if you have any questions about the blog! Deadline to apply for Fall is June 15; decision made by the end of July. Deadline to apply for Spring is November 15; decision made by the end of December. Fall 2022 Blogger Application Spring 2023 Blogger Application Important Contacts France Georgia Tech-Lorraine 2 Rue Marconi 57070 Metz, France Phone: +33 3 87 20 3939; FAX: +33 3 87 20 3940 Contact Us Dr. Bertrand Boussert (Head of Academic Programs) Corinne Guyot (Graduate Academic & Student Support) Katia Menard Pons (Campus Life) John Fritsch (Corporate Relations / Alumni Affairs) United States Georgia Tech-Lorraine A. French Building, Suite 207-C 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Phone: 404-894-2380; FAX: 404-894-2997 Contacts: Allie Crain (Undergraduate & Graduate enrollment) Catherine Bass (Undergraduate Program questions after acceptance into program) Alina Opreanu (Administrative Affairs and Graduate Program questions after acceptance into program - visas/housing) Andrea Gappell (Marketing, Communications, Strategic Initiatives, Events) Relevant Links About Georgia Tech Virtual Tour of Georgia Tech Georgia Tech International Initiatives Office of Int'l Education (OIE) International Student & Scholars (ISSS) International Plan Our Partners/Nos Partenaires Grand Est Conseil Départementale de la Moselle Eurométropole Metz City of Metz Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login