Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech-Lorraine EUROPEAN CAMPUS – METZ, FRANCE Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: GTL President GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report People Faculty Staff Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 Undergraduate Programs GO Why GTL? Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Scholarships & Assistants Apply Withdrawal & Refund Policy Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Campus Life Questions Important Information Regarding Insurance LIVE Metz Campus Graduate Programs GO Why GTL? Degree Focus Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Fellowships Apply FAQ - MS (non-dual degree) Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Partner Institutions Accepted Students Questions LIVE Metz Campus Atlanta Campus Apply Undergraduate Graduate Coronavirus Withdrawal & Refund Policy Français EU GDPR Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Home > Parent's Page You are here: GT Home Parent's Page Parent's Page SO YOUR STUDENT IS PLANNING TO STUDY AT GEORGIA TECH-LORRAINE? HERE'S WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW. Study abroad is a transformative experience, and the Georgia Tech-Lorraine program is no exception! Georgia Tech-Lorraine is Georgia Tech's European campus in Metz, France. Georgia Tech is a top engineering school and a thriving internationally-focused university, and Metz is also a hub for technological advancement and research. Each year close to 700 undergraduate and graduate students study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Update on the Atlanta campus response to coronavirus (COVID-19) Important Program Dates Program Costs CISI Insurance Information Withdrawal & Refund Policy Has your student already been accepted to Georgia Tech-Lorraine? Here is the number one thing you can do to help them prepare: 1. Remind your student to pay attention to and respond to any and all emails from GTL staff in a timely manner! Students who do not respond to emails about subjects such as info on obtaining visas, joining the student Facebook group, answering surveys, etc. will be docked "points" that will give them lower priority for housing at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. If they fail to complete these tasks even after several reminder emails they will be dropped from the program. Looking for info on how to mail a package to your student, or what to do if they get sick? Scroll down for all the answers! PARENTS! - Your student will be asked to give permission to add you to a private Parent's Facebook Group for their semester. This page will provide you with all of the documents that have been shared with students as they prepare to leave for GTL and provides a place for us to share any security updates for GTL and other pertinent information. If you are not a member and would like to join, please ask your student to send an email to catherine.bass@gtl.gatech.edu to give permission to add you to the group. You can click the link above for the Facebook group to request to be added, but you will not be approved until Ms. Bass receives the email. Due to FERPA, we cannot add you without permission from your student. EMERGENCY CONTACT INFO: Georgia Tech-Lorraine: +33 3 87 20 3939 During business hours in Metz, France (9am - 5pm), please contact the main Georgia Tech-Lorraine number, listed above. GT Police: (404) 894-2500 In case of dire emergency, please contact the Georgia Tech Police Department. They will be able to reach the Dean of Students, or his representative, and the Georgia Tech-Lorraine emergency contact. Explore our Undergraduate Programs or Graduate Programs pages for more information on studying at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Before Applying Learn More Arrival & Departure Learn More Mailing Letters & Packages Learn More Living Abroad Learn More Health & Safety Learn More Visiting your Student Learn More Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login