Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech-Lorraine EUROPEAN CAMPUS – METZ, FRANCE Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: GTL President GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report People Faculty Staff Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 Undergraduate Programs GO Why GTL? Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Scholarships & Assistants Apply Withdrawal & Refund Policy Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Campus Life Questions Important Information Regarding Insurance LIVE Metz Campus Graduate Programs GO Why GTL? Degree Focus Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Fellowships Apply FAQ - MS (non-dual degree) Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Partner Institutions Accepted Students Questions LIVE Metz Campus Atlanta Campus Apply Undergraduate Graduate Coronavirus Withdrawal & Refund Policy Français EU GDPR Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Home > About You are here: GT Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: President of GTL GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report About Georgia Tech-Lorraine is the Georgia Institute of Technology's European Campus Georgia Tech-Lorraine was established in 1990 in Metz, France. The campus is located in the heart of Europe in the Grand Est region by the borders of Belgium, Luxembourg, and Germany, less than 90 minutes from Paris by high-speed train. The highly innovative Lorraine campus offers programs that create synergies between academics, research, and innovation. Undergraduate students from Georgia Tech and other U.S. institutions come year-round to spend a semester or more on campus. And, it's not just for engineers -- the campus welcomes students in business, the sciences, French, International Affairs and more. Georgia Tech-Lorraine offers Master's and PhD programs in Aerospace Engineering, Computer Science, Electrical and Computer Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering. We also offer dual-degree master's programs with our prestigious partner institutions across Europe and North Africa. Students graduate with a degree from highly-ranked Georgia Tech. It's home to a strong sponsored research program through Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958, an international joint laboratory between Georgia Tech and the French Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS). And adjacent to the campus is the Institut Lafayette, an extension of Georgia Tech's "Innovation Ecosystem" that further enhances the research and education opportunities for Georgia Tech-Lorraine students. Georgia Tech-Lorraine fosters the flow of ideas, creates new opportunities, and nurtures the development of leadership and innovative thinking in its students. Over 11,000 undergraduate, masters and doctoral students have spent a semester or more on the Metz campus, enriching their education with a global perspective. Georgia Tech-Lorraine is fully integrated into French and American structures: an affiliate of the Georgia Institute of Technology incorporated under French Law. Important Contacts France Georgia Tech-Lorraine 2 Rue Marconi 57070 Metz, France Phone: +33 3 87 20 3939; FAX: +33 3 87 20 3940 Contact Us Dr. Bertrand Boussert (Head of Academic Programs) Corinne Guyot (Graduate Academic & Student Support) Katia Menard Pons (Campus Life) John Fritsch (Corporate Relations / Alumni Affairs) United States Georgia Tech-Lorraine A. French Building, Suite 207-C 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Phone: 404-894-2380; FAX: 404-894-2997 Contacts: Allie Crain (Undergraduate & Graduate enrollment) Catherine Bass (Undergraduate Program questions after acceptance into program) Alina Opreanu (Administrative Affairs and Graduate Program questions after acceptance into program - visas/housing) Andrea Gappell (Marketing, Communications, Strategic Initiatives, Events) Relevant Links About Georgia Tech Virtual Tour of Georgia Tech Georgia Tech International Initiatives Office of Int'l Education (OIE) International Student & Scholars (ISSS) International Plan Our Partners/Nos Partenaires Grand Est Conseil Départementale de la Moselle Eurométropole Metz City of Metz Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login