Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech-Lorraine EUROPEAN CAMPUS – METZ, FRANCE Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: GTL President GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report People Faculty Staff Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 Undergraduate Programs GO Why GTL? Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Scholarships & Assistants Apply Withdrawal & Refund Policy Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Campus Life Questions Important Information Regarding Insurance LIVE Metz Campus Graduate Programs GO Why GTL? Degree Focus Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Fellowships Apply FAQ - MS (non-dual degree) Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Partner Institutions Accepted Students Questions LIVE Metz Campus Atlanta Campus Apply Undergraduate Graduate Coronavirus Withdrawal & Refund Policy Français EU GDPR Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Home > Graduate Programs > Go > Eligibility You are here: GT Home Eligibility Requirements vary according to the program and school. Georgia Tech-Lorraine offers masters and PhD programs. All students must either be current Georgia Tech students, or apply to and be accepted by either the School of Aerospace Engineering, the College of Computing, the School of Electrical & Computer Engineering, or the School of Mechanical Engineering at Georgia Tech, indicating "Lorraine" as their campus of choice. There is no formal application for Georgia Tech-Lorraine. If you are a current OMSCS (Online Master of Science Program in Computer Science) student wishing to study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine for a semester or more, click this link to jump to information on this page which describes the process of applying to spend a semester or more at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Click on the FAQ below if you are a non-dual-degree masters student who has received an offer to start your masters program at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Find answers to all your questions, from funding to the possibility of transferring to the Atlanta campus after your first two semesters of study on the Lorraine campus. FAQ for MS Students Admitted to Georgia Tech-Lorraine (non-dual degree students) Click on the brochure below to learn more about our graduate programs. Current Georgia Tech Master's Degree Students All current Georgia Tech engineering master's degree students may spend a semester or more at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. There is no formal application -- it can be as simple as switching your campus from "Atlanta" to "Lorraine." If you are an international student, you must first contact an International Students & Scholars (ISSS) advisor in the Office of International Education (OIE) to make sure that you will be able to spend a semester in France on your visa. Besides the fantastic experience of spending a semester on Tech's European campus, it is also an excellent value - all masters students pay in-state tuition when studying at Georgia Tech-Lorraine! Next steps... Check our course schedules and make sure that you can find 9 semester hours of courses that will work with your schedule. Ask your advisor to change your campus from "Atlanta" to "Lorraine." Contact the Georgia Tech-Lorraine office in Atlanta to let us know of your intent by May 1 for the Fall semester, and by October 1 of the previous year for the Spring semester. Contact Andrea Gappell if you have any questions on the program. Current Georgia Tech Students in the OMSCS Program Students who are currently enrolled in the Online Master of Science Program in Computer Science may be eligible to spend a semester or more at Georgia Tech-Lorraine after completing at least two semesters in the OMSCS program. Interested students who have completed their second semester or more should reach out to Andrea Gappell in the Georgia Tech-Lorraine office in Atlanta for more information. In your email, please include your GTID along with the specialization you are pursuing in the OMSCS program, along with the semester(s) you'd like to participate. All requests to study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine will be reviewed, and then either approved or denied, on an individual basis by the College of Computing. OMSCS students who are given permission to study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine for a semester or more must understand: You will be a full-time student in residence on the Lorraine campus and will be required to take a minimum of 3 courses per semester. (an exception is made for those students in their final semester of studies who only need 6 semester hours to graduate.) At least two of the three (or more) courses you take must be taught live at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. You will pay Georgia Tech's in-state tuition rate (even for those courses listed as OMSCS on the Georgia Tech-Lorraine course schedule), and will benefit from reasonable graduate housing costs in France. Married students and students with families are not eligible to stay in the graduate student residence and must find their own housing in Metz. All students are self-funded and we do not offer fellowships. In addition, we do not offer TA positions in Computer Science. You will not be eligible to concurrently enroll in OMSCS courses that are not on the Georgia Tech-Lorraine course schedule. Please review the Bursar's site for more details on tuition and fees. Also note that that it is not possible to register for OMSCS courses listed on the Georgia Tech-Lorraine course schedule unless you are registered to study on the Lorraine campus. Starting an MS or PhD program at the Lorraine Campus Complete your entire degree at Georgia Tech-Lorraine, or transfer to the Atlanta campus after one or two semesters of study depending on eligibility. The choice is yours! Students in Aerospace Engineering, Computer Science, Electrical and Computer Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering may study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Students in other engineering disciplines may spend a semester at Georgia Tech-Lorraine, so long as they complete 9 semester hours of courses while in residence. Please check the admission requirements and deadlines for applying to the school of your choice. Please note that you must apply to and be accepted by one of the schools below in order to study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. As we are one Georgia Tech, the admissions requirements are the same on both campuses. If you would like to begin your studies on the Lorraine campus, please select "Lorraine" as your campus of choice on the application: School of Aerospace Engineering School of Computer Science School of Electrical and Computer Engineering School of Mechanical Engineering Current Partner Institution Students: Dual-degree Master's Program Earn a second master's degree from the Georgia Institute of Technology, in addition to a degree from one of our partner institutions. Add a master's degree from the Georgia Institute of Technology to your CV. Georgia Tech is consistently ranked in the top 10 for graduate engineering programs. Language of instruction is English, with courses taught primarily by Georgia Tech faculty. Flexibility to complete the Georgia Tech masters program at the Lorraine campus, or opt to spend a semester at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, Georgia. Gain exposure to the U.S. culture both on the Lorraine campus and in Atlanta. Participate in the master's hooding ceremony if you spend your final semester in Atlanta. To Apply Students from an approved partner institution should contact their office of International Relations for application deadlines and instructions on how to apply. All Other Prospective Students: Dual-degree Master's Program Earn a second masters degree from one of our prestigious partner institutions. Continue your studies at one of our partner institutions and earn a second masters degree in addition to the degree from Georgia Tech. Language of instruction at most partner institutions is English. Students will be "fast-tracked" through the application process to the partner institutions, facilitated by Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Excellent opportunity for those students interested in an international career. Gain insight into European culture. To Apply Contact Dr. Bertrand Boussert for more information on opportunities to complete the dual-degree program. Global Engineering Immersion Program (GEIP) Expand your horizons by spending a semester on each of Georgia Tech's three campuses. Electrical & Computer Engineering majors may spend a semester at each of Georgia Tech's three campuses: Atlanta, Georgia; Metz, France; and Shenzhen, China. Visit the Georgia Tech-Shenzhen page for more information on the China campus. To Apply Contact Andrea Gappell for more information on pursuing this option. Important Contacts France Georgia Tech-Lorraine 2 Rue Marconi 57070 Metz, France Phone: +33 3 87 20 3939; FAX: +33 3 87 20 3940 Contact Us Dr. Bertrand Boussert (Head of Academic Programs) Corinne Guyot (Graduate Academic & Student Support) Katia Menard Pons (Campus Life) John Fritsch (Corporate Relations / Alumni Affairs) United States Georgia Tech-Lorraine A. French Building, Suite 207-C 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Phone: 404-894-2380; FAX: 404-894-2997 Contacts: Allie Crain (Undergraduate & Graduate enrollment) Catherine Bass (Undergraduate Program questions after acceptance into program) Alina Opreanu (Administrative Affairs and Graduate Program questions after acceptance into program - visas/housing) Andrea Gappell (Marketing, Communications, Strategic Initiatives, Events) Relevant Links About Georgia Tech Virtual Tour of Georgia Tech Georgia Tech International Initiatives Office of Int'l Education (OIE) International Student & Scholars (ISSS) International Plan Our Partners/Nos Partenaires Grand Est Conseil Départementale de la Moselle Eurométropole Metz City of Metz Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login