Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech-Lorraine EUROPEAN CAMPUS – METZ, FRANCE Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: GTL President GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report People Faculty Staff Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 Undergraduate Programs GO Why GTL? Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Scholarships & Assistants Apply Withdrawal & Refund Policy Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Campus Life Questions Important Information Regarding Insurance LIVE Metz Campus Graduate Programs GO Why GTL? Degree Focus Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Fellowships Apply FAQ - MS (non-dual degree) Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Partner Institutions Accepted Students Questions LIVE Metz Campus Atlanta Campus Apply Undergraduate Graduate Coronavirus Withdrawal & Refund Policy Français EU GDPR Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Home > Undergraduate Programs > Study > Programs You are here: GT Home Programs Georgia Tech-Lorraine is not just for engineers - all majors are encouraged to attend. No French language skills are required to participate in the program. Check out the First-Year Semester Abroad @Georgia Tech-Lorraine, and begin your studies at Georgia Tech with a semester in Metz, France! This is a limited opportunity for a cohort of 50 lucky incoming first-year students. Interested in French immersion? - You might like the SLS-France Program. This is our Serve-Learn-Sustain program that is only offered in the Fall semester! Improve your French with experiential learning in Metz, working on community-based sustainability projects. Offered Fall semester only. Read our blog and check us out on social media. SLS Blog SLS Instagram SLS Facebook STEM Majors Georgia Tech-Lorraine is perfect for all STEM majors with many core courses, and courses in your major. Please check our course schedules for more information. Liberal Arts and Business Majors Georgia Tech-Lorraine is ideal for liberal arts and business majors. Students will find courses in their major, including courses that are unique to Georgia Tech-Lorraine and the region. Please check our course schedules for more information. First-Year Semester Abroad Program @Georgia Tech-Lorraine (FYSA) Join an exclusive cohort of 50 incoming first-year students for the opportunity of a lifetime! You'll begin your experience with a late Summer session at the Tech campus in Atlanta, then you'll head to Georgia Tech-Lorraine in Metz, France for the Fall semester. Learn about the European community through coursework along with escorted and independent experiential travel, all whlle taking the courses you need to stay on track towards your degree. SLS-France Program at Georgia Tech-Lorraine Improve your fluency in French and cross-cultural competence with this experiential learning program focused on sustainability, service learning, and entrepreneurship. Spend Fall semester in France on the Georgia Tech-Lorraine campus taking courses, conducting research, volunteering in the community, and working toward a more sustainable world. Students must be at an intermediate level or above (i.e. have already taken French 2001, or have permission from the instructor) in order to participate in this program. Please review the program webpage for additional information at https://sls-france.gatech.edu There is no additional cost to participate in the SLS-France Program at Georgia Tech-Lorraine! beyond the tuition and program fees as listed for the Georgia Tech-Lorraine program. Students must be at an intermediate level in French or above in order to participate in this program. Read a recent article about this innovative program here: Serve-Learn-Sustain France Program: Creating Future Leaders in the World’s Sustainability Efforts Program offered in the Fall semester only. Please visit the SLS-France Program at Georgia Tech-Lorraine webpage, for more information on this program. QUESTIONS? Contact Us BS/MS Program Georgia Tech-Lorraine is a great option for students who wish to do a joint BS/MS program. The joint BS/MS Program is a five-year program that features a seamless transition between the bachelors and masters degree programs. The last two years of this program can be done at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Careful course planning can also lead to the award of a graduate degree from a French partner school. BS/MS Program in Electrical and Computer Engineering BS/MS Program in Mechanical Engineering Undergraduate Research Did you know you can do undergraduate research at Georgia Tech-Lorraine in the Fall and Spring? Check it out on the course listings. Take from 1 to 3 hours of credit. Please contact Dr. Bertrand Boussert for information on the opportunities. International Plan The International Plan is a challenging and comprehensive academic program for Georgia Tech undergraduates that develops global competence within the context of a student’s major. There are several courses that qualify not only toward Language Requirements, but also the Globally-Focused Coursework. Cross-reference the Georgia Tech-Lorraine course offerings with the International Plan class requirements. Important Contacts France Georgia Tech-Lorraine 2 Rue Marconi 57070 Metz, France Phone: +33 3 87 20 3939; FAX: +33 3 87 20 3940 Contact Us Dr. Bertrand Boussert (Head of Academic Programs) Corinne Guyot (Graduate Academic & Student Support) Katia Menard Pons (Campus Life) John Fritsch (Corporate Relations / Alumni Affairs) United States Georgia Tech-Lorraine A. French Building, Suite 207-C 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Phone: 404-894-2380; FAX: 404-894-2997 Contacts: Allie Crain (Undergraduate & Graduate enrollment) Catherine Bass (Undergraduate Program questions after acceptance into program) Alina Opreanu (Administrative Affairs and Graduate Program questions after acceptance into program - visas/housing) Andrea Gappell (Marketing, Communications, Strategic Initiatives, Events) Relevant Links About Georgia Tech Virtual Tour of Georgia Tech Georgia Tech International Initiatives Office of Int'l Education (OIE) International Student & Scholars (ISSS) International Plan Our Partners/Nos Partenaires Grand Est Conseil Départementale de la Moselle Eurométropole Metz City of Metz Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login