Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech-Lorraine EUROPEAN CAMPUS – METZ, FRANCE Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: GTL President GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report People Faculty Staff Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 Undergraduate Programs GO Why GTL? Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Scholarships & Assistants Apply Withdrawal & Refund Policy Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Campus Life Questions Important Information Regarding Insurance LIVE Metz Campus Graduate Programs GO Why GTL? Degree Focus Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Fellowships Apply FAQ - MS (non-dual degree) Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Partner Institutions Accepted Students Questions LIVE Metz Campus Atlanta Campus Apply Undergraduate Graduate Coronavirus Withdrawal & Refund Policy Français EU GDPR Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Home > Graduate Programs > Live > Atlanta You are here: GT Home Atlanta Metz Directions to Georgia Tech Atlanta Atlanta - Lively, creative, eclectic, innovative. Work, study, and play in the one of the largest cities in the southeastern United States. The Georgia Institute of Technology is a world-class university situated in the heart of the city, which is the state capital of Georgia. An important hub for many state, regional, and national government agencies, as well as headquarters of many Fortune 500 companies and startups, Georgia Tech is right at home in this center of innovation and vision. Campus Getting to the heart of it all in Midtown Atlanta! Georgia Tech is an urban campus nestled right in the heart of Midtown Atlanta. Right in the heart of the action, it isn't hard to get out around town and experience the city! The Georgia Tech campus is over 400 square acres lined with trees and bike paths, has its own transportation system, and is a microcosm of Atlanta. Featuring academic and research facilities, as well as athletic centers both recreational and institutional, Georgia Tech is the epitome of the traditional American university experience. Wander the historic red brick halls, cheer on the home team at an American football game, and receive your diploma at graduation, wearing the tradtional cap and gown. Check out Tech Square Campus Transportation Services (Bus & Trolley Routes) Visit Georgia Tech! Housing Whether on-campus or off, you can find a home in Atlanta. On-Campus Graduate students can live on-campus in the Graduate Living Center on the north side of campus, which offers an apartment-style space with a common area and kitchen shared by 4 individual rooms. For information about furnishings, cost, and more, see the Georgia Tech Housing website. Off-Campus The French House: There is a house in Home Park, the neighborhood just north of campus, rented by Georgia Tech-Lorraine graduate students each semester. This is not organized by our office, but we can put you in touch with the right people! Other apartments: There are many options for housing near campus. For more detailed, up-to-date information, you can do some research in the nearby neighborhoods, such a Home Park and Midtown. Dining Atlanta is known for its Southern culture and good eats! Meal Plans Students can use a meal plan through Georgia Tech Dining Services or pay for each meal as they go. Groceries There are two nearby Publix grocery stores. You can also check out the many farmer's markets. Restaurants Atlanta prides itself on its restaurant scene, so go exploring and try some Southern specialties - and more! Extracurricular Activities There is always something going on at Georgia Tech! Residence Hall Association & SCPC If you live on campus, the Residence Hall Association (RHA) will have a hall council in your apartment complex that plans events much like the Bureau des Etudiants. Campus-wide RHA also hosts larger events and carnivals open to everyone. The Student Center Programs Council (SCPC) puts on many free and discounted events throughout the year for the enjoyment of all Tech students, including Sting Break carnival, GT Night at the Aquarium and Six Flags, and more! Sports Get Involved Gym: Georgia Tech's Campus Recreation Center (CRC) is a world-class gym that was initially used as the aquatics center for the 1996 Olympics! It features three pools, a fitness floor, basketball and volleyball courts, and an indoor track, as well as discounted fitness courses! There you an also find resources about borrowing sports equipment. Intramurals: The Campus Recreation Center organizes tournaments for a variety of sports, for which students can form or join teams! Outdoor Recreation Programs: ORGT organizes discounted trips to the wilderness of Georgia and neighboring states for adventure sports like climbing, kayaking, and more!" Become a Fan Don't miss attending a Georgia Tech football, baseball or basketball game. Go Jackets! Special Events Homecoming: In typical American university fashion, Homecoming is a spirit week in the Fall semester filled with events and competitions ending in a football game at Bobby Dodd! Ramblin' On: The largest graduation party at Tech - but sadly only offered in the Spring semesters. Commencement: Your traditional graduation ceremony! Travel Make your semester in the United States one to remember! Each semester there will be either a spring or fall break during which students are encouraged to travel! See the academic calendar for more information about timing of these breaks. Important Contacts France Georgia Tech-Lorraine 2 Rue Marconi 57070 Metz, France Phone: +33 3 87 20 3939; FAX: +33 3 87 20 3940 Contact Us Dr. Bertrand Boussert (Head of Academic Programs) Corinne Guyot (Graduate Academic & Student Support) Katia Menard Pons (Campus Life) John Fritsch (Corporate Relations / Alumni Affairs) United States Georgia Tech-Lorraine A. French Building, Suite 207-C 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Phone: 404-894-2380; FAX: 404-894-2997 Contacts: Allie Crain (Undergraduate & Graduate enrollment) Catherine Bass (Undergraduate Program questions after acceptance into program) Alina Opreanu (Administrative Affairs and Graduate Program questions after acceptance into program - visas/housing) Andrea Gappell (Marketing, Communications, Strategic Initiatives, Events) Relevant Links About Georgia Tech Virtual Tour of Georgia Tech Georgia Tech International Initiatives Office of Int'l Education (OIE) International Student & Scholars (ISSS) International Plan Our Partners/Nos Partenaires Grand Est Conseil Départementale de la Moselle Eurométropole Metz City of Metz Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login