Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech-Lorraine EUROPEAN CAMPUS – METZ, FRANCE Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: GTL President GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report People Faculty Staff Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 Undergraduate Programs GO Why GTL? Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Scholarships & Assistants Apply Withdrawal & Refund Policy Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Campus Life Questions Important Information Regarding Insurance LIVE Metz Campus Graduate Programs GO Why GTL? Degree Focus Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Fellowships Apply FAQ - MS (non-dual degree) Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Partner Institutions Accepted Students Questions LIVE Metz Campus Atlanta Campus Apply Undergraduate Graduate Coronavirus Withdrawal & Refund Policy Français EU GDPR Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Home > News > Ece Faculty Paul Voss Named Academic Director Georgia Tech Lorraine You are here: GT Home ECE Faculty, Paul Voss, Named Academic Director at Georgia Tech-Lorraine May 31, 2022 | Metz, France Georgia Tech School of Electrical and Computer Engineering (ECE) faculty, Paul Voss, has been appointed to serve as Academic Director at Georgia Tech-Lorraine effective June 1, 2022. In this new role, Dr. Voss will oversee all aspects of academic operations at Georgia Tech’s European campus in Metz, France in collaboration with Georgia Tech’s academic units and related departments. Reporting to Georgia Tech-Lorraine president, Abdallah Ougazzaden, Voss’ responsibilities will include oversight of academic offerings for the year-round Lorraine campus, a focus on graduate student enrollment, and leadership with Georgia Tech-Lorraine's international partnerships. In this role, Dr. Voss will build on his close relationships with stakeholders on both the Lorraine and Atlanta campuses. Voss will also support Dr. Ougazzaden in representing Georgia Tech-Lorraine in the local Grand Est Region and beyond. In addition to taking on this new leadership position at Georgia Tech-Lorraine, Voss will continue teaching at the campus along with furthering his research in III-N semiconductor devices and materials through Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958, a joint international research laboratory between Georgia Tech and the CNRS (the French National Centre for Scientific Research). This lab is located on the Lorraine campus, with a mirror lab on Tech’s Atlanta campus. Voss will also remain in his role as the Dean of Students Representative at Georgia Tech-Lorraine with ongoing collaboration with Georgia Tech’s Dean of Students. Having served in this student-focused role since 2015, Dr. Voss remains tireless in his commitment to student well-being and notably took on a leading role in helping Dr. Ougazzaden manage the Lorraine campus’ Covid-19 pandemic response. Throughout the pandemic Dr. Voss worked to ensure student safety and compliance with USG and French higher education COVID regulations while also assuaging the concerns of parents and loved ones back home in the US. In discussing the new appointment, Abdallah Ougazzaden noted, “Naming Paul Voss as Academic Director aligns with our strategic plan for Georgia Tech-Lorraine. With all academic operations under his purview, Dr. Voss will help to implement programming and enrollment strategies that will expand access to more students.” “I am excited to add this new role in Academic Affairs to my responsibilities, collaborating with Abdallah Ougazzaden on student-focused academic programs that contribute to the accomplishment of Georgia Tech’s strategic plan. I see so much possibility for Georgia Tech-Lorraine, with the best years still to come,” said Dr. Voss. Voss joined the Georgia Tech faculty based at Georgia Tech-Lorraine in 2006 where he served as Assistant Professor in the School of Electrical & Computer Engineering until 2013. He was then named Associate Professor. Dr. Voss was named Demetrius T. Paris Junior Professor, 2007-2012. He has received several honors and awards, including the 2012 Innovation Award, “Entreprendre en Lorraine-Nord” for entrepreneurship, and is leading the Create-X offering of Startup Lab at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. To further support graduate and undergraduate innovation, Dr. Voss is leading the creation of the Georgia Tech-Lorraine makerspace. His scholarly work includes over ninety published and accepted journal articles, and Dr. Voss has participated in close to eighty conference presentations with proceedings, along with an additional thirty-five conference, workshop, and seminar presentations. Voss holds one U.S. patent, and 4 French patents. Since 2006 he has been awarded over $3 million in funding for grants and contracts in which he was a principal investigator. Prior to joining Georgia Tech, Dr. Voss spent two years as a Post-doctoral Fellow in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering at Northwestern University. He received his MS and PhD in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, a BS in Electrical Engineering from Florida State in Tallahassee, Florida, and his BA in Humanities with an emphasis in French Literature from Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah. Voss anticipates a smooth transition to this new role with the help of Bertrand Boussert, who has held the position of Head of Academic Programs and Partnerships at Georgia Tech-Lorraine since 2015. Dr. Boussert is also an adjunct faculty member in the School of Electrical & Computer Engineering, based at the Lorraine campus. Dr. Boussert has been instrumental in expanding academic partnerships in Europe and North Africa, building the renown of Georgia Tech-Lorraine’s successful dual-degree master’s program, among other accomplishments. While continuing his teaching role at Georgia Tech-Lorraine, Boussert will continue to work with graduate students, to serve in a graduate enrollment role and to strengthen academic partnerships, reporting to Dr. Voss. “I look forward to collaborating with Bertrand Boussert, Abdallah Ougazzaden, and the Georgia Tech-Lorraine teams on both sides of the Atlantic as we continue to improve GTL for our current and future students,” said Voss. Related Media Click on image(s) to view larger version(s) Paul Voss, Associate Professor, School of Electrical and Computer Engineering Georgia Tech-Lorraine For More Information Contact Andrea Gappell Marketing and Communications, Georgia Tech-Lorraine Related Links Georgia Tech-Lorraine Paul Voss Bio, ECE Important Contacts France Georgia Tech-Lorraine 2 Rue Marconi 57070 Metz, France Phone: +33 3 87 20 3939; FAX: +33 3 87 20 3940 Contact Us Dr. Bertrand Boussert (Head of Academic Programs) Corinne Guyot (Graduate Academic & Student Support) Katia Menard Pons (Campus Life) John Fritsch (Corporate Relations / Alumni Affairs) United States Georgia Tech-Lorraine A. French Building, Suite 207-C 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Phone: 404-894-2380; FAX: 404-894-2997 Contacts: Allie Crain (Undergraduate & Graduate enrollment) Catherine Bass (Undergraduate Program questions after acceptance into program) Alina Opreanu (Administrative Affairs and Graduate Program questions after acceptance into program - visas/housing) Andrea Gappell (Marketing, Communications, Strategic Initiatives, Events) Relevant Links About Georgia Tech Virtual Tour of Georgia Tech Georgia Tech International Initiatives Office of Int'l Education (OIE) International Student & Scholars (ISSS) International Plan Our Partners/Nos Partenaires Grand Est Conseil Départementale de la Moselle Eurométropole Metz City of Metz Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login