Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech-Lorraine EUROPEAN CAMPUS – METZ, FRANCE Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: GTL President GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report People Faculty Staff Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 Undergraduate Programs GO Why GTL? Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Scholarships & Assistants Apply Withdrawal & Refund Policy Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Campus Life Questions Important Information Regarding Insurance LIVE Metz Campus Graduate Programs GO Why GTL? Degree Focus Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Fellowships Apply FAQ - MS (non-dual degree) Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Partner Institutions Accepted Students Questions LIVE Metz Campus Atlanta Campus Apply Undergraduate Graduate Coronavirus Withdrawal & Refund Policy Français EU GDPR Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Home > Graduate Programs > Study > Accepted Students You are here: GT Home Accepted Students For U.S. and International Masters Students Studying at Georgia Tech-Lorraine (excluding Dual-degree Program) If you are a current Georgia Tech student in Atlanta and will be spending a semester or more at the Lorraine campus, or if you are a student who will be starting their studies at Georgia Tech-Lorraine, here are the next steps. 1. Complete the GT-Lorraine Participant Profile. Scan and send the following via e-mail to: Alina Opreanu and Elise Bastien. a. Copy of Passport photo page b. Copy of Birth Certificate (with French translation, if possible; you can also get it translated when you arrive in France) c. Passport ID photo (in jpg format) 2. Begin Visa application process Attend a Visa Information Session with Alina Opreanu before beginning the visa application process. a. You will apply for a "Long-stay visa for studies." (Visa de long séjour valant titre de séjour (VLS-TS) pour étudiant) b. You will need to complete the Campus France process in order to proceed with the visa application. c. You can schedule your visa appointment no more than 3 months before your arrival in France. Ms. Opreanu will advise. 3. Housing - Inform us of your choice Most graduate students stay in Résidence Edouard Branly graduate student housing. If you will be coming to Metz with a partner or family, you will need to find other housing.Please email us at GTL-France@gtl.gatech.edu for advice. Students staying two consecutive semesters or more, will receive a government subsidy. Please email Elise Bastien with your preference for housing. Please note that not everyone requesting a studio will get one. The number of studios available are extremely limited, and these will be assigned based on availability and on a first-come, first-served basis. Please review the costs. a. Single studio - extremely limited and not guaranteed. b. Double studio Note: Double studios offer a private room with shared kitchen and bathroom facilities. 4. Tuition and Fees - what to expect a. You will be billed for in-state tuition and fees (in USD) after you arrive in Metz b. You can pay via wire transfer c. Tuition and fees will be due by the end of the first full week of classes 5. Fellowships Students are self-funded at the masters level. A limited number of fellowships are available for students coming to Atlanta. 6. Getting to Georgia Tech-Lorraine Most students fly into CDG airport in Paris. Georgia Tech-Lorraine offers a shuttle service from CDG airport in Paris, and sometimes from Frankfurt, Brussels, and Luxembourg at a cost of $120, roundtrip (TBC and subject to change). We do not offer one-way shuttle service. Should you wish to take the shuttle you will be charged the roundtrip fare on your student account. Alina Opreanu in GTL's Atlanta office will advise as to shuttle departure date/time. If you plan to arrive on any other day, you will need to make your own arrangements to get to Metz. Instructions on getting to the student residences on your own will be shared on the private Facebook group for graduate students in Metz. There are very specific flight arrival dates and time for the Paris airport shuttle. Alina Opreanu will reach out to all accepted students with information on the shuttles. Visit our page on living in Metz and life at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. 7. Registering for Courses You will register for courses after you arrive in Metz. Please refer to the course schedules for more information for your semester. 8. For Students Planning on Spending Their Third Semester at the Atlanta Campus Corinne Guyot will assist you with applying for your visa for the U.S. if needed. During your semester on the Metz campus, before heading to Atlanta, be sure to pick up your BuzzCard from the Elise Bastien. You will need this for many things on the Atlanta campus. For Dual-degree Masters Students Students coming to Georgia Tech-Lorraine or The Georgia Institute of Technology from a partner institution should contact Corinne Guyot for next steps. Students coming to Atlanta will need to apply for an F1 visa. You will receive information on this process from Corinne Guyot. The visa process will begin 3-4 months before departure. Fall semester: start the process end of April/beginning of May. Spring semester: start the process end of September/beginning of October. During your semester on the Metz campus, before heading to Atlanta, be sure to pick up your BuzzCard from the Administrative Office: You will receive emails with everything you need to know, and reminders about deadlines. Visit our page on living in Metz and life at Georgia Tech-Lorraine, as well as life in Atlanta and life at the Georgia Institute of Technology. For PhD candidates Please contact Dr. Bertrand Boussert for next steps. Visit our page on living in Metz and at Georgia Tech-Lorraine, as well as life in Atlanta and life at The Georgia Institute of Technology. Questions? Here's who to contact if you have any questions about studying at Georgia Tech-Lorraine: For questions on passport, visa requirements, and the logistics of studying on the Lorraine campus for non-dual degree graduate students, please contact Alina Opreanu. For questions on reserving housing in Metz, please contact Elise Bastien. For questions on passport, visa requirements, and the logistics of studying on the Atlanta campus for graduate students, please contact Corinne Guyot. For questions on academics, the dual-degree masters program, or the PhD program, please contact Dr. Bertrand Boussert. Important Contacts France Georgia Tech-Lorraine 2 Rue Marconi 57070 Metz, France Phone: +33 3 87 20 3939; FAX: +33 3 87 20 3940 Contact Us Dr. Bertrand Boussert (Head of Academic Programs) Corinne Guyot (Graduate Academic & Student Support) Katia Menard Pons (Campus Life) John Fritsch (Corporate Relations / Alumni Affairs) United States Georgia Tech-Lorraine A. French Building, Suite 207-C 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Phone: 404-894-2380; FAX: 404-894-2997 Contacts: Allie Crain (Undergraduate & Graduate enrollment) Catherine Bass (Undergraduate Program questions after acceptance into program) Alina Opreanu (Administrative Affairs and Graduate Program questions after acceptance into program - visas/housing) Andrea Gappell (Marketing, Communications, Strategic Initiatives, Events) Relevant Links About Georgia Tech Virtual Tour of Georgia Tech Georgia Tech International Initiatives Office of Int'l Education (OIE) International Student & Scholars (ISSS) International Plan Our Partners/Nos Partenaires Grand Est Conseil Départementale de la Moselle Eurométropole Metz City of Metz Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login