Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech-Lorraine EUROPEAN CAMPUS – METZ, FRANCE Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: GTL President GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report People Faculty Staff Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 Undergraduate Programs GO Why GTL? Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Scholarships & Assistants Apply Withdrawal & Refund Policy Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Campus Life Questions Important Information Regarding Insurance LIVE Metz Campus Graduate Programs GO Why GTL? Degree Focus Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Fellowships Apply FAQ - MS (non-dual degree) Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Partner Institutions Accepted Students Questions LIVE Metz Campus Atlanta Campus Apply Undergraduate Graduate Coronavirus Withdrawal & Refund Policy Français EU GDPR Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Home > Undergraduate Programs > Go > Eligibility You are here: GT Home Eligibility WITHDRAWAL & REFUND POLICY What are the requirements to apply for the Georgia Tech-Lorraine program? Georgia Tech-Lorraine is Georgia Tech's European campus located in Metz, France. Qualified students can spend one or more semesters at our campus abroad. We are not a degree-granting institution; it is not possible to spend 4 years or earn a degree on our campus. High school students, and international undergraduate or Baccalaureate students not currently enrolled at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta are not eligible to apply to Georgia Tech-Lorraine. You do not need to speak any French to participate in the Georgia Tech-Lorraine program, unless you are applying to the SLS-France Program, which is focused on sustainability and French immersion. Georgia Tech Undergraduates The Georgia Tech-Lorraine program is open to undergraduates of all majors, for the Fall, Spring, and Summer semesters. Must be at least 18 years of age by the program departure date. Minimum 2.5 GPA at time of application. In good academic and disciplinary standing at the time you apply and up until departure. If after you are accepted, you are placed on academic or disciplinary probation, you will not be able to participate in the program and you will be assessed all fees as outlined in our Withdrawal & Refund Policy. Open to Georgia Tech undergraduates of all majors. First-year students starting in the Fall may apply during their first semester for the Summer semester. They will be accepted conditionally, based on achieving a 2.5 GPA in their first semester. First-year students only, who do not achieve a 2.5 GPA in their first semester, will be dropped from the program and their $500 will be refunded. Students can study through their last semester at Tech - because we are a campus abroad and not study abroad, the 36-hour rule doesn't apply! Transfer Students (Students transferring to Tech from another university, or from the Conditional Transfer Pathway Program.) Start planning now for a semester at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Your eligibility to study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine will depend on which semester you transfer to Georgia Tech. Please see below for information on the FIRST semester you will be eligible to study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Be mindful of application deadlines. Summer transfers: Students transferring to the Atlanta campus in the Summer are eligible to apply for the Spring semester at the earliest. This means Spring in the calendar year after they start, is the first semester they can attend Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Fall transfers: Students transferring to the Atlanta campus in the Fall are eligible to apply for the Spring semester at the earliest. This means Spring in the calendar year after they start, is the first semester they can attend Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Spring transfers: Students transferring to the Atlanta campus in the Spring are eligible to apply for the Summer semester at the earliest, although there is a chance that the Summer program will already be wait-listed by the start of the Spring semester. Remember - These rules also apply for first-year students admitted to Georgia Tech under the Conditional Transfer Pathway Program. Like current Georgia Tech students, transfer students will be dropped from the program if they are placed on academic or disciplinary probation before departing for Georgia Tech-Lorraine and the Withdrawal & Refund Policy applies. All other requirements are as listed for Georgia Tech undergraduates. All transfer students should be mindful of application deadlines. The above notes list when you can "attend" Georgia Tech-Lorraine only. Remember, if you apply during your first semester on the Atlanta campus, you will be accepted to the Lorraine program on the condition that you achieve a 2.5 GPA in your first semester on the Atlanta campus. Students should not purchase plane tickets for the program until this "conditional" acceptance is lifted. If you are unsure if you qualify, please do not hesitate to email Allie Crain with any questions. Students from other U.S. universities (referred to as transient students) Georgia Tech-Lorraine welcomes students from other U.S. universities all semesters – Fall, Spring, and Summer. Must be at least 18 years of age by the program departure date. Minimum 3.0 GPA at time of application. In good academic and disciplinary standing. Only US citizens and US Permanent Residents (Green Card holders) will be permitted to apply and participate as transient students on the Georgia Tech-Lorraine program. Students from other universities on other types of US visas are NOT permitted to apply First-year students may apply during their first semester for the Summer semester. They will be accepted conditionally, based on achieving a 3.0 GPA in their first semester. All transient students who apply should make sure they read and understand our Withdrawal & Refund Policy. Students who are NOT eligible to study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine (high school students and international undergraduate students not currently enrolled at the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta) Georgia Tech-Lorraine is the European campus of the Georgia Institute of Technology. All admissions to Georgia Tech-Lorraine are handled through Georgia Tech in Atlanta. One cannot apply directly to Georgia Tech-Lorraine. There are no direct admissions to Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Georgia Tech-Lorraine is not a degree-granting institution. Students studying at Georgia Tech-Lorraine are working towards a degree granted by Georgia Tech in Atlanta. High school students and recent graduates are not eligible to enroll at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Students with a French Baccalaureate (Bac) or a Baccalaureate from any other country are not eligible to enroll at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. (Students with a Baccalaureate who are currently enrolled at Georgia Tech in Atlanta may apply.) Undergraduate students currently enrolled at non-U.S. universities are not eligible to enroll at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Only US citizens and US Permanent Residents (Green Card holders) will be permitted to apply and participate as transient students on the Georgia Tech-Lorraine program. Students from other universities on other types of US visas are NOT permitted to apply. Notes on Eligibility for ALL Accepted Students Please make sure you understand the points listed below. All students must also adhere to the Georgia Tech Office of International Education’s eligibility guidelines. If a student is placed on academic probation, they will no longer be eligible to attend, and our cancellation policy will be enforced. If a student is no longer in good disciplinary standing, they will no longer be eligible to attend and our Withdrawal & Refund Policy will be enforced. First-year students who apply for the Summer semester will be accepted conditionally, pending achieving a 2.5 GPA or higher during their first semester at Tech and maintaining a clean disciplinary record. (For transient students, the GPA requirement is minimum of 3.0.) Important Contacts France Georgia Tech-Lorraine 2 Rue Marconi 57070 Metz, France Phone: +33 3 87 20 3939; FAX: +33 3 87 20 3940 Contact Us Dr. Bertrand Boussert (Head of Academic Programs) Corinne Guyot (Graduate Academic & Student Support) Katia Menard Pons (Campus Life) John Fritsch (Corporate Relations / Alumni Affairs) United States Georgia Tech-Lorraine A. French Building, Suite 207-C 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Phone: 404-894-2380; FAX: 404-894-2997 Contacts: Allie Crain (Undergraduate & Graduate enrollment) Catherine Bass (Undergraduate Program questions after acceptance into program) Alina Opreanu (Administrative Affairs and Graduate Program questions after acceptance into program - visas/housing) Andrea Gappell (Marketing, Communications, Strategic Initiatives, Events) Relevant Links About Georgia Tech Virtual Tour of Georgia Tech Georgia Tech International Initiatives Office of Int'l Education (OIE) International Student & Scholars (ISSS) International Plan Our Partners/Nos Partenaires Grand Est Conseil Départementale de la Moselle Eurométropole Metz City of Metz Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login