Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech-Lorraine EUROPEAN CAMPUS – METZ, FRANCE Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: GTL President GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report People Faculty Staff Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 Undergraduate Programs GO Why GTL? Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Scholarships & Assistants Apply Withdrawal & Refund Policy Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Campus Life Questions Important Information Regarding Insurance LIVE Metz Campus Graduate Programs GO Why GTL? Degree Focus Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Fellowships Apply FAQ - MS (non-dual degree) Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Partner Institutions Accepted Students Questions LIVE Metz Campus Atlanta Campus Apply Undergraduate Graduate Coronavirus Withdrawal & Refund Policy Français EU GDPR Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Home > News > How Former Metz Mayor Dominque Gros Became Champion Georgia Tech Lorraine You are here: GT Home How Former Metz Mayor Dominque Gros Became a Champion of Georgia Tech-Lorraine May 24, 2022 | Metz, France Georgia Tech-Lorraine owes a great deal to the support of the city of Metz and the Grand Est region, and the school has a good friend in the former mayor of Metz, Dominique Gros. The school’s administration commends the former mayor on the release of his book, Mayor’s Memoirs (Mémoire de maire, Essevé Editions, 2022), which highlights his time in office from 2008 – 2020, as head of the capital of Moselle. Mayor Gros accomplished many things while in office that greatly impacted the quality of life in Metz, including the construction of the Mettis, a public transportation system with dedicated bus lanes that improved urban transport, building the audacious Maison Heler, a modern hotel designed by Philippe Stark, with a replica of one of Metz’ traditional Alsacienne homes perched on its rooftop, and inaugurating the Centre Pompidou – Metz, the first offshoot of Paris’ famed Centre Pompidou. Georgia Tech-Lorraine flourished while Mayor Gros was in office, and the campus and the Institute merited several mentions in his memoirs. Mayor Gros admitted to being unsure of the idea of having a U.S. off-campus instructional site in Metz back when the Lorraine campus was in its early days in the 1990s with few students wandering its hallways. However, he quickly came around and was one of the school’s biggest supporters in the region during his tenure as mayor. By trade an engineer, it did not take long for Gros to see the merits in having Metz Métropole and the region continue to contribute to the growing Lorraine campus. In 2009 he traveled with a delegation from the Lorraine region to the Georgia Institute of Technology in Atlanta, visiting its labs and chatting with researchers and administrators. This was an “aha” moment for Gros that gave him a glimpse of the importance of the Lorraine campus, so clearly built on the pillars of academics, research, and innovation. Over the years, Mayor Gros championed Georgia Tech-Lorraine’s growth and was there to celebrate each milestone, including Georgia Tech-Lorraine’s 25th anniversary. He witnessed Tech’s European campus grow from an inaugural cohort of 6 intrepid Electrical & Computer Engineering students to a dynamic European campus that has seen over 11,000 students pass through its doors. Mayor Gros developed a close relationship with Georgia Tech-Lorraine president Abdallah Ougazzaden and had the honor of pinning him with the medal of the Chevalier of the Legion of Honor, on behalf of French president, Emmanuel Macron, in 2019. In his remarks, Gros likened Ougazzenden to a spark that ignited a never-ending dialogue between the world of research and the needs of industry. Ougazzaden had an ally in Gros in expanding access to opportunities in higher education and research, along with introducing students to the region and French culture. Reminiscing, Ougazzaden acknowledged, “Mayor Gros stood by Georgia Tech-Lorraine every step of the way, as our reach expanded globally, far beyond the borders of Metz and the Grand Est region.” Related Media Click on image(s) to view larger version(s) Book cover: Mémoires de maire, by Dominique Gros Abdallah Ougazzaden (right) with Metz Mayor Dominique Gros For More Information Contact Andrea Gappell Marketing and Communications Manager, Georgia Tech-Lorraine Related Links Georgia Tech-Lorraine Mémoires de maire, Dominique Gros Important Contacts France Georgia Tech-Lorraine 2 Rue Marconi 57070 Metz, France Phone: +33 3 87 20 3939; FAX: +33 3 87 20 3940 Contact Us Dr. Bertrand Boussert (Head of Academic Programs) Corinne Guyot (Graduate Academic & Student Support) Katia Menard Pons (Campus Life) John Fritsch (Corporate Relations / Alumni Affairs) United States Georgia Tech-Lorraine A. French Building, Suite 207-C 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Phone: 404-894-2380; FAX: 404-894-2997 Contacts: Allie Crain (Undergraduate & Graduate enrollment) Catherine Bass (Undergraduate Program questions after acceptance into program) Alina Opreanu (Administrative Affairs and Graduate Program questions after acceptance into program - visas/housing) Andrea Gappell (Marketing, Communications, Strategic Initiatives, Events) Relevant Links About Georgia Tech Virtual Tour of Georgia Tech Georgia Tech International Initiatives Office of Int'l Education (OIE) International Student & Scholars (ISSS) International Plan Our Partners/Nos Partenaires Grand Est Conseil Départementale de la Moselle Eurométropole Metz City of Metz Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login