Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech-Lorraine EUROPEAN CAMPUS – METZ, FRANCE Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: GTL President GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report People Faculty Staff Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 Undergraduate Programs GO Why GTL? Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Scholarships & Assistants Apply Withdrawal & Refund Policy Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Campus Life Questions Important Information Regarding Insurance LIVE Metz Campus Graduate Programs GO Why GTL? Degree Focus Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Fellowships Apply FAQ - MS (non-dual degree) Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Partner Institutions Accepted Students Questions LIVE Metz Campus Atlanta Campus Apply Undergraduate Graduate Coronavirus Withdrawal & Refund Policy Français EU GDPR Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Home > FAQ for Masters Students Admitted to Georgia Tech-Lorraine (non dual-degree) You are here: GT Home FAQ for Masters Students Admitted to Georgia Tech-Lorraine (non dual-degree) Did you receive an email stating that you are being given the opportunity to begin your studies at Georgia Tech-Lorraine, Georgia Tech's European campus in Metz, France? Were you admitted to a master's program at Georgia Tech in Atlanta, but without funding, and were told that you could study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine for half the cost? Either way, you have a decision to make! The Lorraine campus was established in 1990. From an initial class of just six Electrical and Computer Engineering master's students, today, over 700 undergraduate and graduate students spend a semester or more on our campus each year. For an overview of our graduate programs, including details on living in Metz, France, please visit our Graduate Programs webpage. Every Wednesday from 10-11am we offer a Graduate Virtual Information Session. We highly recommend attending one of these sessions to learn more about the Lorraine campus. Here are the answers to your most pressing questions. If you have additional questions, email us at gtl-france@gtl.gatech.edu. I ACCEPTED THE OFFER TO STUDY AT GEORGIA TECH-LORRAINE! WHAT ARE MY NEXT STEPS? 1. Please read and bookmark this FAQ. It is updated regularly. 2. Please attend a virtual Graduate Information Session if you have not already done so - Wednesday's from 10-11am EST. This will answer many of your questions. 3. Attend a Visa Information Session as soon as possible if you have not already done so. 4. Be patient in waiting for your "official" acceptance through the portal and your official acceptance letter. It could take several weeks before you receive this. We do understand that you need this to complete the visa process; please don't worry. 5. Please monitor your email and the portal for further instructions. I ACCEPTED THE OFFER TO STUDY AT GEORGIA TECH-LORRAINE, AND THEN IMMEDIATELY DEFERRED TO FALL 2023! WHAT ARE MY NEXT STEPS? 1. Please carefully read and bookmark this FAQ. It is updated regularly. 2. Please be patient - we are first helping those students who will be attending Georgia Tech-Lorraine in Fall 2022 and Spring 2023. 3. There are no further actions to take right now; we will reach out to you with next steps. 4. Please email us at GTL-France@gtl.gatech.edu if you are no longer interested in attending Georgia Tech-Lorraine. CAN I BE RECONSIDERED TO START ON THE ATLANTA CAMPUS, IF I RECEIVED AN EMAIL STATING THAT I AM ADMITTED TO GEORGIA TECH, STARTING WITH TWO SEMESTERS ON THE LORRAINE CAMPUS? A. No. If you received an email stating the you will be admitted to Georgia Tech, spending the first two semesters on the Lorraine campus, this decision is final and valid for one academic year. The schools will not reconsider your request to start on the Atlanta campus. Admission to Georgia Tech is competitive and it is an achievement to be accepted. We are one Georgia Tech, with campuses in Atlanta, Metz, France, and Shenzhen, China. The quality of education received on each campus is the same, and at the end, the degree is conferred by Georgia Tech. Please consider the wonderful opportunity you have been given to begin your studies on the Lorraine campus. Many students quickly discover that they can receive a Georgia Tech degree at half the cost of Atlanta by studying on the Lorraine campus, and they remain in France for their entire degree! The choice is yours - stay in France for your entire degree, or come to Atlanta in your third semester. Q. The specialization I have chosen is not offered on the Lorraine campus. Won't you reconsider me for the Atlanta campus in this case? A. No. We will not reconsider you for the Atlanta campus. The decision is final and valid for one year. See the answer to the question above. With careful planning, you can pursue your specialization once you arrive on the Atlanta campus. IMPACT OF COVID-19 ON PROGRAM START DATES & DEFERRALS Q: Will the Coronavirus pandemic have any impact on the Fall 2022 semester and beyond? A: We have been successfully and safely teaching classes live at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. In the past several years, all students have been able to obtain long-stay visas with guidance from our office. The Spring 2022 semester is being taught live and we anticipate that the Fall 2022 semester will be as well. Q: What are the dates of the Spring and Fall 2022 semesters? A: Please see our Calendar for all program dates. Q: Will the French government authorities be issuing student visas for Fall 2022 and beyond? A: Georgia Tech continues to monitor the situation with the French government and CampusFrance. All Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 students were able to obtain visas and this should continue for Fall 2022. If you are accepted to the program, please do not begin the visa process on your own. Shortly after accepting the offer to study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine, you will be contacted by the Georgia Tech-Lorraine office in Atlanta who will advise on when to start the the visa process. Q: What if I cannot obtain a French visa due to the pandemic? A: All Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 students were able to obtain a French visa. We will advise in ample time if there are issues with obtaining visas. Please do not worry about this. Students who will arrive after the start of the semester due to visa issues will be addressed on a case-by-case basis. We are not offering the option to do the semester online. IMPORTANT: Please let us know as soon as possible at GTL-France@gtl.gatech.edu if you will are having trouble arriving in France in time for the start of the semester. Q: If I elect to defer to a future semester, can I request to start the program on the Atlanta campus instead of the Lorraine campus? A: No. You have been admitted to begin the first two semesters of study towards your master’s degree on the Lorraine campus. You will not have the option to begin your studies on the Atlanta campus, but you will have the option of transferring to the Atlanta campus in your 3rd semester. Please understand that the decisions made by the respective schools are final and cannot be changed. For example, if you are admitted for Fall 2022 and defer until Fall 2023, you will not be reconsidered to start your studies on the Atlanta campus in Fall 2023; you would still need to first spend two semesters on the Lorraine campus before asking to transfer to the Atlanta campus. Remember, this is what is stated in the offer letter you received, and the decision holds for one year, through Fall 2023. Reapplying is not a recommended strategy as there is no guarantee that you will be admitted to begin your studies on the Atlanta campus the second time you apply. The result could very well be the same, or worse, you could not be admitted to Georgia Tech at all depending on the size and qualifications of the applicant pool. Q: Will I have the option of completing Fall 2022 virtually through online courses, and if so, will I pay a lower rate of tuition? A: No. The Fall 2022 semester will be taught live in France. If for some reason due to the pandemic students are asked to complete a semester online, they will still pay the regular Georgia Tech-Lorraine tuition and program fees, which is equivalent to resident/in-state tuition at Georgia Tech. Mandatory Student Fees will remain the same. Q: If for some reason due to the pandemic, students are asked to complete part of a given semester online, will they still be able to transfer to the Atlanta campus after two semesters enrolled on the Lorraine campus? A: Yes. Students can apply to transfer to the Atlanta campus after 2 semesters in the Georgia Tech-Lorraine program, whether instruction is offered online or live. Q: Just to confirm, if I defer to a future semester, I do not have to reapply to Georgia Tech, correct? A: Correct. You can defer your matriculation for up to one year and do not need to reapply. To clarify, you can defer to either Spring or Fall 2023 if you were accepted for Fall 2022. If you wish to reapply for the Atlanta campus, you will need to wait until Spring 2024. Please do not defer in the hopes we will reconsider you for Atlanta - we will not; the decision is final and valid for one year, through Fall 2023. GEORGIA TECH DEGREE Q: If I study at the Lorraine campus for the entire duration of my masters coursework, or if I spend two semesters on the Lorraine campus and then one or two semesters on the Atlanta campus, will my degree show that I graduated from Georgia Tech-Lorraine? A: No. Your degree will always be conferred by the Georgia Institute of Technology. If you are an ECE major, you can study on our Shenzhen China campus as well. If ECE majors study on all 3 campuses, they will receive a special designation, but again the degree will still be granted by Georgia Tech! Our GEIP program, the "Global Engineering Immersion Program," is for ECE students who study on all three of our campuses - Atlanta, Metz, and Shenzhen! Please email us at GTL-France@gtl.gatech.edu for details. COURSEWORK Q: What courses can I take while I am at Georgia Tech-Lorraine? A: You may take only the courses listed on our website. Here is link to the course offerings on the Lorraine campus. You may not take any online/distance learning courses that are not listed on the Georgia Tech-Lorraine course schedule. This means that if courses in your specialization are only offered on the Atlanta campus, you will need to save those courses for semester three, and take them in Atlanta. Q: Do I need to know any French in order to study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine? A: No. The language of instruction is English. You do not need to know any French. We offer a free French class for masters students if you are interested, but this is not mandatory. Q: What if I want to take courses that are only offered on the Atlanta campus? A: You may only take the courses that are listed on the Georgia Tech-Lorraine course schedules. We are a small campus and do not offer the breadth of courses found at the Atlanta campus. Should you need to take specialized courses that are only offered on the Atlanta campus, please consider studying on the Atlanta campus in your third semester. Q: Are all of the courses taught "live" on the Lorraine campus? A: Most courses are taught "live." Courses listed on the schedule as "DL" (Distance Learning) or "OMSCS" (Online Master of Science in Computer Science) are taught remotely via distance-learning. Q: Can I take "Distance Learning" or "OMSCS" courses that are not on the Lorraine schedule while I am at Georgia Tech-Lorraine? A: No. You may only take courses that are listed on the Georgia Tech-Lorraine course schedule. Q: Can I take courses outside of my department and will they count towards my degree? A: Yes. You can take courses outside of your department from other engineering disciplines, so long as they are related to your course of study. Each program specifies how many outside credits count towards the degree. Review the MS curriculum on your department’s website and reach out to graduate advisors in your respective department for guidance in your selection of courses. Q: How many hours of coursework do I need to take each semester while studying on the Lorraine campus? Does this differ between the thesis and non-thesis option? A: 30 hours of coursework is required for both the thesis and the non-thesis master's degree. 33 hours of coursework are required to complete the MS in the School of Aerospace Engineering. Since you will be studying in a new culture, we recommend that you take 9 semester hours of coursework each of the two semesters you are in Metz. To be clear, 9 hours is the minimum number of semesters you may take while you are at Georgia Tech-Lorraine, each semester, and you should most definitely not take any more than 9 hours each semester if you wish to spend your third semester in Atlanta. You will need to take 12 hours of coursework in your third semester to complete your degree. Should you decide to spend your third semester on the Atlanta campus, you will need to take a minimum of 12 semester hours of coursework in order to maintain full-time student standing as required by the F-1 visa. The thesis option also requires 30 hours of study -- 18 hours of coursework and 12 thesis hours. You can complete the thesis option in three semesters with some planning. You will be assigned an advisor at the Lorraine campus and can complete the thesis hours during the first two semesters on the Lorraine campus, or you can opt to start the thesis portion of your degree on the Atlanta campus in your third semester. Many students opt to take an extra semester for the thesis option, completing two semesters on the Atlanta campus, making them eligible for OPT (more information on OPT is found below). OPT and a third and fourth semester in Atlanta is only available to students doing the thesis option. Should you decide to transfer to the Atlanta campus, you will need to take a minimum of 12 semester hours of coursework or thesis hours each semester in order to maintain full-time student standing as required by the F-1 visa. Although only 30 hours of study are required to obtain the MS degree, students may earn more than 30 credit hours. Students should submit their petition to graduate only once they are ready to complete their degree. If you do the thesis with OPT, you will be taking more than 30 credit hours to complete your degree. (9 credit hours each semester at Lorraine, and 12 credit hours each semester on the Atlanta campus). To clarify, it you decide to do the thesis option so that you can do OPT in Atlanta, you will graduate with a minimum of 42 semester hours of credits. Remember, you need to take 12 semester hours of credit each semester you are on the Atlanta campus, in order to maintain full time student status for the F-1 visa. Q: At the end of my studies, do I receive a degree from the Georgia Institute of Technology? A: Yes. We are one Georgia Tech. You may complete your degree on any one of the three Georgia Tech campuses - Atlanta, Lorraine, or Shenzhen - and the degree will be granted by the Georgia Institute of Technology. If you complete two semesters on the Lorraine campus, and then transfer to the Atlanta campus in semester three, your degree will still be noted as "Georgia Tech" on your diploma. MS THESIS OPTION Q: Do I need to decide if I am doing the thesis or non-thesis option at the time I accept the offer to study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine? A: No. You can decide during your first semester if you would like to pursue the thesis option. Keep in mind that you will need to pursue the thesis option if you are an international student who is intent on doing OPT in Atlanta beginning in their third semester. Details on OPT are addressed in greater detail below in the section on the "Semester in Atlanta". Q: Can I work with an advisor and a research lab outside of my department? A: Normally, you can have an advisor in another discipline so long as you have a co-advisor from your home department. Please check with your school. Q: Is it mandatory to find a thesis advisor prior to transferring to Atlanta in the third semester? A: Yes. Students wishing to complete the masters with thesis on the Atlanta campus must find an advisor prior to arrival in Atlanta. Each school posts faculty bios and their areas of interest on their website. Once you review that information, you should contact the faculty member with whom you would like to work. Please remember that you will need to be proactive in finding an advisor, should you chose to do the thesis option. You will find an advisor, but it is up to you to secure this. Q: If I choose the thesis option, am I obligated to complete all coursework before starting my thesis? A: No. If you find an advisor on the Lorraine campus, you can work on your thesis and coursework concurrently. If you decide to work on your thesis in Atlanta, you will not begin this work until your third semester when you transfer to the Atlanta campus. You can elect to do a thesis with faculty in Lorraine or Atlanta. RESEARCH AREAS Q: What are the different research areas available at Georgia Tech-Lorraine? A: Georgia Tech-Lorraine is home to Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958, a joint international research laboratory between Georgia Tech and the CNRS (Centre National de Recherche Scientifique), the French National Center for Scientific Research, and other local partners. Laboratories and areas of specialization can be found on the Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 website. This international research laboratory is yet another great reason to study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. INTERNSHIPS Q: Can I get an internship after my first two semesters at Georgia Tech-Lorraine? A: It's possible. As most European Engineering schools require students to complete an internship in order to graduate, the market is quite competitive. Summer internships, which are common in the U.S., are not common in Europe, where 6 month internships are the norm. With initiative and determination, it is possible to find a global internship beginning in the summer after your first two semesters at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Students have found internships without speaking any French. Students have made great contacts and secured internships through connections made through Georgia Tech-Lorraine's Corporate Seminar series. A staff member at Lorraine campus can assist you with the process. Please keep in mind that as standard internships in Europe are generally 6 months in duration, you will need to plan accordingly for your final semester of studies. For example, if you begin your studies in Fall on the Lorraine campus, followed by the Spring semester on the Lorraine campus, and start your internship in the Summer, your third semester of study will be in the following Spring. Q: Can I come to Atlanta in my third semester, and then get an internship in Europe after completing my studies? A: No. Should you wish to do an internship in Europe, we recommend searching during your time on the Lorraine campus. If you find an internship in Europe that begins after you complete your second semester, staff in Metz can assist with extending your visa. Remember, you are not obligated to come to Atlanta in your third semester - many students complete their entire degree on the Lorraine campus. QUESTIONS ON THE SEMESTER IN ATLANTA Q: Am I guaranteed the right to transfer to the Atlanta campus in my third semester? A: All students who remain in good standing during their first two semesters at Georgia Tech-Lorraine will be given permission to transfer to Georgia Tech in Atlanta! ME students only (non dual-degree) must first secure funding before being allowed to transfer to Atlanta. (or, for ECE students, the Shenzhen campus is also an option). To clarify, there is no limit to the number of students who may transfer, so long as they are in good academic standing. In order to remain in good standing, general Institute policy is that master's students maintain a minimum 2.7 GPA. Students in the School of Mechanical Engineering must maintain a 3.0 GPA in order to remain in good standing and secure a GRA before transferring to the Atlanta campus in their third semester. All students should be aware that they will be transferred to the Atlanta campus without funding (although ME students must secure funding in order to transfer) and will pay the higher non-resident tuition unless they are residents of the state of Georgia. The cost to study on the Atlanta campus is twice the cost of studying on the Lorraine campus. This is our most frequently asked question, so please read this carefully. NO student who remains in good standing has ever been denied the transfer to Atlanta! Q: Can I get funding if I come to Atlanta? A: No. Masters students are self-funded for the semester in Atlanta. The exception is for ME students -- Mechanical Engineering students must secure a GRA before being allowed to transfer to the Atlanta campus. (please note that this applies to non dual-degree students.) We do offer one fellowship for the semester students come to Atlanta only. This is quite competitive. More information can be found on the Fellowship page on our website. Q: What is tuition for the semester(s) in Atlanta? A: Students will pay out-of-state/non-resident tuition for the semester(s) they will spend on the Atlanta campus, unless they are from Georgia. Please visit the Costs page on our website for more details. While at Georgia Tech-Lorraine, all students pay the lower in-state/resident tuition. This is one of the many perks of studying at Georgia Tech-Lorraine - a Georgia Tech degree, but at a lower cost! Studying on the Lorraine campus is approximately half the cost of studying on the Atlanta campus. Many students opt to complete their entire degree on the Lorraine campus due to the quality of the experience and the lower cost. Q: Can I obtain a research assistantship (GRA) during my Atlanta semester? A: There are limited opportunities for those students on the master’s thesis track, but the majority of funding is reserved for PhD students. Students will need to contact our Head of Academic Program at Georgia Tech-Lorraine for direction on trying to secure a GRA before heading to the Atlanta campus. GRAs are not guaranteed. Remember that MSME students must obtain a GRA before transferring to the Atlanta campus. Q: Can I apply to be a teaching assistant (GTA)? A: It is unlikely that you will be able to obtain a GTA while on the Atlanta campus. There are no possibilities for students within the School of Mechanical Engineering. There may be limited opportunities in the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, but you should plan as though you will not obtain a GTA. No matter your major, please ask us if this will be possible if you are interested. Q: Can I get OPT (Optional Practical Training) when I am in Atlanta? A: It depends. You must be on the thesis track, and spend two semesters in Atlanta as a full-time student in order to qualify for OPT. Under the F-1 visa, only students who spend two consecutive semesters as full-time students (12 credit hours per semester) on the Atlanta campus are eligible for OPT. And the only way to spend two consecutive semesters in Atlanta is if you are on the thesis track. To clarify, those wishing to do OPT in Atlanta, will need to be on the thesis track. For more information, please visit Georgia Tech’s Office of International Education (OIE) International Students and Scholars Services webpage. You do not need to declare that you will do a thesis at the time you accept the offer to study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. You can decide after you arrive for your first semester. Q: My major is in the School of ECE. I see that students studying at Shenzhen have an option for "Track 5" where they can come to Atlanta for two semesters while doing a non-thesis option. Why can't I do this if I start on the Lorraine campus? A: If you begin your studies on the Lorraine campus, it is not possible to spend two semesters in Atlanta if you are doing the non-thesis option. When you start on the Lorraine campus, you are required to take 9 SCH (semester hours) each semester, meaning you will complete 18 SCH total in semesters one and two at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. (You may not take fewer than 9 SCH per semester while on the Lorraine campus.) This will leave you with 12 SCH remaining for your 3rd and final semester in Atlanta. You will be able to complete your non-thesis masters in three semesters and will not be granted a visa for a 4th semester. The only way to spend a 4th semester in the program is if you opt for the thesis option which will allow you to spend two consecutive semesters on the Atlanta campus. If you are interested in the option offered by the Shenzhen campus, we would recommend pursuing the opportunity to study at Shenzhen rather than Lorraine. Q: Do all international students come to Atlanta in their third semester? A: No. Many students plan on coming to Atlanta in their third semester, but once they arrive on the Lorraine campus, they realize three things quite quickly - 1. The experience of being in the American university system on a small campus in France is quite agreeable! 2. The cost to study on the Lorraine campus is half of the cost of the Atlanta campus! 3. The degree is the same - it is conferred by Georgia Tech in Atlanta! Try the Lorraine campus - you'll like it! GETTING A JOB IN THE U.S. OR EUROPE AFTER I GRADUATE Q: Can I find a job in the U.S. after I graduate? A: The F-1 student visa does not facilitate finding long-term U.S. employment. Students studying in the U.S. who have qualified for OPT (see above) will have 60 days to secure employment under OPT with the F-1 visa. They are not permitted to work during this 60-day grace period. Students will need to research on their own the process for obtaining an H1B visa, which requires sponsorship by an employer. Although students are not guaranteed to find a job in the U.S., many do find companies that are willing to sponsor a work visa. Students have asked if completing their degree on the Lorraine campus will hinder their chances of finding a job in the U.S. The answer is, no. Whether students complete their degree on the Lorraine or the Atlanta campus, the degree is the same U.S. degree granted by the Georgia Institute of Technology. While studying on the Atlanta campus, students will have the opportunity to participate in career fairs with a wide variety of companies recruiting. Many companies prefer candidates who already have the right to work in the U.S., but it may be possible to find a company willing to sponsor your work visa. While on the Lorraine campus, students will be invited to participate in smaller job fairs attended by global companies. Many international students opt to do a 6 month European internship, and they are often offered jobs by these companies when they finish their degree. For more information related to living and working in the U.S., please visit Georgia Tech’s Office of International Education (OIE) International Students and Scholars Services webpage. Q: Can I find a job in Europe after I graduate? A: Finding a job in Europe post-graduation is possible. Even without a promise of work or a work contract from an employer, non-EU students holding a Master’s degree may request a temporary resident permit (Autorisation Provisoire de Séjour) valid for 12 months while they are seeking employment. We have a staff member at Georgia Tech-Lorraine who can help to put you on the right track with your job search. TUITION & FEES Q: What is the tuition rate for the two semesters at Georgia Tech-Lorraine? And what about the semester in Atlanta? A: All masters students at Georgia Tech-Lorraine pay Georgia Tech's in-state/resident tuition for each of the two semesters they spend at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. For the semester(s) in Atlanta, students will pay the higher out-of-state/non-resident tuition. Studying on the Lorraine campus is approximately half the cost of studying on the Atlanta campus. For more details on costs, please visit the Costs page on our website. The Board of Regents of the State of Georgia did not increase tuition for the 2021-2022 school year. Tuition for the 2022-2023 academic year will be posted in April. Q: How and when do I pay tuition for my semester at Georgia Tech-Lorraine? A: Students will receive an invoice for tuition and fees for each semester within the first 10 days of the semester. Tuition is paid via wire transfer in U.S. dollars or Euros. FUNDING Q: Is funding available for master’s students? A: No. Master's students are admitted without funding to Georgia Tech-Lorraine. The same holds for the semester(s) in Atlanta. Q: Can I obtain a research assistantship (GRA) during my master’s studies? A: There are limited opportunities for those students on the master’s thesis track, but the majority of funding is reserved for PhD students. There is no way to secure any funding ahead of time, as faculty recruit their students directly. Q: Can I apply to be a teaching assistant (GTA)? A: You will be eligible to apply for a teaching assistantship to help with undergraduate labs once you arrive at Georgia Tech-Lorraine. If selected for the TA position, you will be refunded 1,800 Euros at the end of the semester. You will still need to pay the full tuition up front. Q: Do you offer scholarships or fellowships? A: There are no scholarships or fellowships available to students while studying on the Lorraine campus. We offer limited opportunities for students who opt to spend one semester on the Atlanta campus, to offset the higher cost of attendance. Please visit our Fellowships page for more information on applying. Q: I see on Campus France that there are many scholarships offered to students from my home country who are studying in France. Do I qualify for these scholarships? A: No. In order to qualify for these scholarships, which are offered through the French government, you must be studying at a French institution of higher education. Georgia Tech is a U.S. institution; Georgia Tech-Lorraine is our French campus. We are not a French institution of higher education, so you will not qualify for any scholarship or grant that requires students to be studying at a French institution of higher education. Please read the eligibility criteria carefully before applying for any scholarship or grant. GRADUATE STUDENT HOUSING Q: What is the situation for housing for graduate students at Georgia Tech-Lorraine? A: We offer graduate student housing in a student residence operated by one of our partner schools. This residence is called ALOES. It is quite nice - students will have their own studio with an ensuite bathroom and a kitchenette. To clarify, you will have your own room. For more information on the ALOES residence and information on life in Metz, France, please review the "Live" section on our webpage. We do not offer married student housing (except in the case where both partners are studying at Georgia Tech-Lorraine), or housing for families. If you will be arriving with a spouse/partner/children, please reach out to us as soon as possible at GTL-France@gtl.gatech.edu to learn about housing options. VISAS Q: What type of visa do I need to study at Georgia Tech-Lorraine and what is the process to obtain one? A: Once you have officially accepted the offer to attend Georgia Tech-Lorraine, staff from the Atlanta office will contact you to assist you with the visa process. Please do not begin this process on your own. Students will apply for a long-stay visa through Campus France and VFS. Again, wait until receiving direction from us before beginning this process. Q: What type of visa do I need if I decide to study at Georgia Tech-Shenzhen after two semesters on the Lorraine campus? A: Should you decide to study at the Shenzhen campus for your third semester, you will need to contact a staff member on the Lorraine campus for assistance. They will assist you in obtaining the proper visa. (You will need to be in good academic standing in order to switch campuses.) Q: What type of visa do I need to study at Georgia Tech in Atlanta should I decide to study at the Atlanta campus after two semesters on the Lorraine campus? A: Should you decide to study at the Atlanta campus for your third semester, you will need to contact a staff member on the Lorraine campus for assistance. They will assist you in obtaining an F-1 visa. (You will need to be in good academic standing in order to switch campuses. This has already been discussed in great detail in this FAQ) PLEASE DIRECT ANY ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS TO GTL-FRANCE@GTL.GATECH.EDU and remember to attend one of our Virtual Graduate Information Sessions. Important Contacts France Georgia Tech-Lorraine 2 Rue Marconi 57070 Metz, France Phone: +33 3 87 20 3939; FAX: +33 3 87 20 3940 Contact Us Dr. Bertrand Boussert (Head of Academic Programs) Corinne Guyot (Graduate Academic & Student Support) Katia Menard Pons (Campus Life) John Fritsch (Corporate Relations / Alumni Affairs) United States Georgia Tech-Lorraine A. French Building, Suite 207-C 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Phone: 404-894-2380; FAX: 404-894-2997 Contacts: Allie Crain (Undergraduate & Graduate enrollment) Catherine Bass (Undergraduate Program questions after acceptance into program) Alina Opreanu (Administrative Affairs and Graduate Program questions after acceptance into program - visas/housing) Andrea Gappell (Marketing, Communications, Strategic Initiatives, Events) Relevant Links About Georgia Tech Virtual Tour of Georgia Tech Georgia Tech International Initiatives Office of Int'l Education (OIE) International Student & Scholars (ISSS) International Plan Our Partners/Nos Partenaires Grand Est Conseil Départementale de la Moselle Eurométropole Metz City of Metz Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login