Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech-Lorraine EUROPEAN CAMPUS – METZ, FRANCE Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: GTL President GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report People Faculty Staff Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 Undergraduate Programs GO Why GTL? Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Scholarships & Assistants Apply Withdrawal & Refund Policy Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Campus Life Questions Important Information Regarding Insurance LIVE Metz Campus Graduate Programs GO Why GTL? Degree Focus Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Fellowships Apply FAQ - MS (non-dual degree) Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Partner Institutions Accepted Students Questions LIVE Metz Campus Atlanta Campus Apply Undergraduate Graduate Coronavirus Withdrawal & Refund Policy Français EU GDPR Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Home > Undergraduate Programs > Go > Undergraduate Costs You are here: GT Home Undergraduate Costs Studying at Georgia Tech-Lorraine is priceless! Before signing up for the Georgia Tech-Lorraine program, please review the program costs, and read our Withdrawal & Refund Policy, linked at the bottom of the page. IMPORTANT: Please note that Georgia Tech-Lorraine is a campus abroad program and not a study abroad program. As such, our tuition and program charge structure is different from Georgia Tech's study abroad programs due to the increased resources needed to operate our own program and campus. Please read the information below and make sure you understand the costs. In-state and out-of-state students DO NOT pay the same tuition. Please review our PROGRAM COSTS. Program Deposit: $500 deposit payable at the time you apply. This deposit is non-refundable once you are accepted into the program. No exceptions. Tuition: Tuition is set by the The Board of Regents of the State of Georgia (BOR). In-state students pay in-state tuition; out-of-state and international students pay a higher rate of tuition, as noted in the "Program Costs" section below (please click on the semester you are interested in once following the link). The BOR typically sets tuition each April for the upcoming academic year that begins in the Fall. Please note that a new tuition structure was put in place effective Fall 2020 and beyond, with increases in tuition for out-of-state/international students. In-state/resident students will continue to pay in-state/resident tuition at GTL. Program Charges: Include housing costs and the Georgia Tech-Lorraine Fees (i.e Medical Insurance, student ISIC card, Administrative Fees). IMPORTANT INFORMATION REGARDING INSURANCE Please click on the button below, entitled "Program Costs," where you will find all tuition and program charges listed for each semester. Program Costs Additional Costs (i.e., costs in addition to tuition and program charges) Airfare: approximately $1,500 (highly variable depending on the time of year) - Please do not buy your airfare until instructed to do so on the student's closed Facebook group. Eurail Pass: Between $700-1,300 (prices vary; you will learn more about this after you are accepted into the program) Passport: $145.00 application and processing fee (US Government). Expedited service: An additional $60 Visa and Campus France Fees Spring/Fall: approximately $375 (ALL non-E.U. citizen students will need a visa) Summer: Some international students will need a visa and will be contacted by GTL staff in Atlanta. Summer students: US students may or may not need a visa for stays under 90 days, international students may or may not need a visa (check with Ms.Bass). The Schengen visa required for some non-US citizens will be free (subject to change). Meals & Weekend Travel: Students should plan on budgeting at least $200 per week for their meals and weekend travels. Lunch on class days is included for Summer students only. Books & Supplies: approximately $500 (highly variable depending on the course load) Note on Meals: There is no meal plan at Georgia Tech-Lorraine in the Spring and Fall. Students will have access to low-cost meals through a French student dining hall. Summer students will have lunch provided on class days only. Before applying to the Georgia Tech-Lorraine program, please make sure that you have read and understand our Withdrawal & Refund Policy, linked below. There will be no exceptions made to this policy. WITHDRAWAL & REFUND POLICY Important Contacts France Georgia Tech-Lorraine 2 Rue Marconi 57070 Metz, France Phone: +33 3 87 20 3939; FAX: +33 3 87 20 3940 Contact Us Dr. Bertrand Boussert (Head of Academic Programs) Corinne Guyot (Graduate Academic & Student Support) Katia Menard Pons (Campus Life) John Fritsch (Corporate Relations / Alumni Affairs) United States Georgia Tech-Lorraine A. French Building, Suite 207-C 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Phone: 404-894-2380; FAX: 404-894-2997 Contacts: Allie Crain (Undergraduate & Graduate enrollment) Catherine Bass (Undergraduate Program questions after acceptance into program) Alina Opreanu (Administrative Affairs and Graduate Program questions after acceptance into program - visas/housing) Andrea Gappell (Marketing, Communications, Strategic Initiatives, Events) Relevant Links About Georgia Tech Virtual Tour of Georgia Tech Georgia Tech International Initiatives Office of Int'l Education (OIE) International Student & Scholars (ISSS) International Plan Our Partners/Nos Partenaires Grand Est Conseil Départementale de la Moselle Eurométropole Metz City of Metz Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login