Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech-Lorraine EUROPEAN CAMPUS – METZ, FRANCE Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: GTL President GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report People Faculty Staff Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 Undergraduate Programs GO Why GTL? Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Scholarships & Assistants Apply Withdrawal & Refund Policy Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Campus Life Questions Important Information Regarding Insurance LIVE Metz Campus Graduate Programs GO Why GTL? Degree Focus Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Fellowships Apply FAQ - MS (non-dual degree) Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Partner Institutions Accepted Students Questions LIVE Metz Campus Atlanta Campus Apply Undergraduate Graduate Coronavirus Withdrawal & Refund Policy Français EU GDPR Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Home > Apply > APPLY NOW! Undergraduates You are here: GT Home APPLY NOW! Undergraduates Please Read our Withdrawal & Refund Policy! Application Deadlines Summer 2022 applications are closed, and the program is wait-listed. Applications are open for Fall 2022! Apply today! Consider applying for the SLS-France Program which runs in the Fall semester only. This French immersion program is focused on sustainability! NOTE: You MUST have a valid passport in hand at the time you apply! Here's a link with information on applying for a U.S. Passport. If you have a passport, check to make sure that the expiration date is three months beyond the date that you will return home at the end of the program; if not you will need to renew your passport as soon as possible! PLEASE NOTE: Applications for ALL semesters close when the program fills. This can and does happen before the posted application deadline, especially for the Summer semester. Please do not wait until the last minute to apply. Application Requirements * Minimum GPA requirement: 2.5 for GT students and 3.0 for Transient students. Students falling on academic probation, right before departure, will no longer be eligible to go to Georgia Tech-Lorraine. (Please review our cancellation policy) * A clean disciplinary record Before applying, please read and make sure you understand our Withdrawal & Refund Policy. Transfer Students Apply as soon as you arrive on campus to study at GTL in your second semester if you like! Fall transfers can apply for Spring; Spring transfers can apply for Summer or Fall semester. This rule also applies for first-year students admitted to Georgia Tech under the Conditional Transfer Pathway Program. First-year Students First-year students are eligible to apply for the Summer Program and will be accepted conditionally until they have a GPA on record from their first semester on campus. In January, your acceptance will either be confirmed, or retracted if your Fall GPA is below 2.5. If your first semester at Georgia Tech is in the Summer, then you are eligible to apply for the Spring semester. Transient Students (i.e. student from other U.S. universities) Undergraduate students from other US universities must be US citizens or US Permanent Residents (Green Card holders) to apply to Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Students from other US universities on other types of US visas are NOT permitted to apply. International undergraduates from international universities are not permitted to apply. 3.0 GPA required for all undergraduates from other US universities. Apply Now! - Georgia Tech Undergraduates GEORGIA TECH UNDERGRADUATES When can I apply? Each program will be closed as soon as it reaches its maximum capacity. Spring and Fall programs close by the set deadlines due to time constraints dictated by the visa application process. Applicants will be accepted on a rolling basis during the application window, first-come, first-served for these two semesters. It usually takes several weeks before you will hear if you are accepted. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Applications for all semesters are reviewed on a rolling basis until applications close or the program fills. It usually takes several weeks once we start reviewing applications until you receive an acceptance. The Summer program always sells out, so be sure to apply early so as not to be wait-listed. If you do get wait-listed, know that you are likely to get in, but you may need to wait until later in the Spring before a spot opens up. And remember, your application fee is non-refundable once you have been accepted to the program. Make sure you understand our cancellation policy before applying! Please plan in advance for all semesters. How do I apply? Step 1: Complete the application to Georgia Tech-Lorraine APPLICATION TO STUDY AT GTL through the Office of International Education (OIE) (See above table for when this application will open for your desired semester) Submit the GT Study Abroad Online Application through atlas.gatech.edu. If you have any issues with completing your application, please email education.abroad@oie.gatech.edu. Step 2: Pay the $500 deposit Pay the $500 deposit through Atlas. NOTE: Application order is based on the date the online program application and deposit are completed. Please note that if you have started an application, but have not yet paid the $500 deposit, your application is incomplete and will not be reviewed. Also note that the $500 deposits are processed once per week. If you have paid the depoist by the deadline, but it has not yet been processed, please do not worry! So long as you pay the deposit before the deadline, you will be fine. If you have any issues with completing your application, please email education.abroad@oie.gatech.edu *Please note that this fee is non-refundable once acceptance to GTL is confirmed. Once accepted, you may defer your fee to the next semester only, but you will not get the money back. Please make sure you read and understand our withdrawal & refund policy. Apply Now! - Non-Georgia Tech/Transient Undergraduates When can I apply? For the quickest access to application dates and information on programs filling, please follow us on Facebook or Twitter. Key applications dates and deadlines will always be shared on our social media accounts. Undergraduate Application Deadlines Note: Each program will close as soon as the maximum capacity has been reached; programs may fill before the deadline. Spring and Fall Programs must close by the set deadlines due to time constraints regarding the visa application process. Please plan in advance for both Spring and Fall semesters! The Summer program fills and is wait-listed before the deadline, so apply early if you want to go! How do I apply? Transient students must complete TWO SEPARATE APPLICATIONS: one for admission to Georgia Tech-Lorraine, and one for temporary admission to Georgia Tech. You will need to complete each application separately, as each requires different documents. To assist you, please open the PDF below: Guidelines for Transient Student Applicants Important Contacts France Georgia Tech-Lorraine 2 Rue Marconi 57070 Metz, France Phone: +33 3 87 20 3939; FAX: +33 3 87 20 3940 Contact Us Dr. Bertrand Boussert (Head of Academic Programs) Corinne Guyot (Graduate Academic & Student Support) Katia Menard Pons (Campus Life) John Fritsch (Corporate Relations / Alumni Affairs) United States Georgia Tech-Lorraine A. French Building, Suite 207-C 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Phone: 404-894-2380; FAX: 404-894-2997 Contacts: Allie Crain (Undergraduate & Graduate enrollment) Catherine Bass (Undergraduate Program questions after acceptance into program) Alina Opreanu (Administrative Affairs and Graduate Program questions after acceptance into program - visas/housing) Andrea Gappell (Marketing, Communications, Strategic Initiatives, Events) Relevant Links About Georgia Tech Virtual Tour of Georgia Tech Georgia Tech International Initiatives Office of Int'l Education (OIE) International Student & Scholars (ISSS) International Plan Our Partners/Nos Partenaires Grand Est Conseil Départementale de la Moselle Eurométropole Metz City of Metz Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login