Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation Georgia Tech-Lorraine EUROPEAN CAMPUS – METZ, FRANCE Home About Welcome: President of GT Welcome: GTL President GT Rankings Annual Safety and Security Report People Faculty Staff Georgia Tech-CNRS IRL 2958 Undergraduate Programs GO Why GTL? Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Scholarships & Assistants Apply Withdrawal & Refund Policy Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Campus Life Questions Important Information Regarding Insurance LIVE Metz Campus Graduate Programs GO Why GTL? Degree Focus Eligibility Deadlines Calendar Costs Fellowships Apply FAQ - MS (non-dual degree) Questions STUDY Requirements Course Lists/Textbooks Programs Partner Institutions Accepted Students Questions LIVE Metz Campus Atlanta Campus Apply Undergraduate Graduate Coronavirus Withdrawal & Refund Policy Français EU GDPR Contact Us Search Search form Enter your keywords Home > Graduate Programs > Go > Fellowships You are here: GT Home Fellowships There is one fellowship available from Georgia Tech-Lorraine for masters students. Please note that this fellowship is only available to students who have already completed two semesters of study on the Lorraine campus, and who will be coming to the Atlanta campus in their third semester. Details follow below. The Georgia Tech-Lorraine Challenge Fellowship (masters level) The Georgia Tech-Lorraine Challenge Fellowship is a need-based fellowship established to support outstanding Georgia Tech graduate students who might not be able to participate in a program of study through Georgia Tech-Lorraine without financial assistance. The Georgia Tech-Lorraine Endowment Fund, which funds this fellowship, is comprised of donations from alumni and friends of Georgia Tech-Lorraine. Funds will be disbursed to masters students from the Challenge Fund each year, as follows: $ 2,250* – to one current graduate students per semester (international or U.S.) participating in Georgia Tech's masters program who have spent their first two semesters of study on the Lorraine campus, and will complete their final semester(s) in Atlanta. $2,250 will will be disbursed for Fall semester and $2,250 for Spring semester. Funds to be disbursed during the semester the winning student is at Georgia Tech in Atlanta, so winning students must be prepared to pay their tuition in full to GTL before leaving the Metz campus. The final amount may be reduced according to tax laws in the US and the student's home country. Georgia Tech-Lorraine may elect to give two awards of $1,125 each semester, rather than one award of $2,250 per semester. Deadline to apply for Spring is November 15; decision made by the end of November. Deadline to apply for Fall is June 15; decision made by the end of July. The fellowships will be awarded based on the following criteria: Financial need Review of GTL Challenge Fellowship Application Personal reasons for wishing to attend GTL Future professional goals Personal situation and circumstances explaining why you are applying for the Fellowship Letter of recommendation from a faculty member Applications will be reviewed by committee, in coordination with the Office of Financial Aid. Please complete the GTL Challenge Fellowship Application online. Please have a letter of recommendation from a faculty member emailed to allie.crain@gtl.gatech.edu. Campus France: Many international students have been asking about the Eiffel Scholarship offered through Campus France and other scholarships that apply only to the French higher education system. Unfortunately, prospective Georgia Tech-Lorraine students are not eligible for this scholarship. The Eiffel Scholarship is targeted to students planning on studying at French higher education institutions. Although our campus is in France, Georgia Tech-Lorraine is an affiliate of Georgia Tech, and as such is a U.S. higher education institution. Please address any questions regarding graduate fellowships to Andrea Gappell. Important Contacts France Georgia Tech-Lorraine 2 Rue Marconi 57070 Metz, France Phone: +33 3 87 20 3939; FAX: +33 3 87 20 3940 Contact Us Dr. Bertrand Boussert (Head of Academic Programs) Corinne Guyot (Graduate Academic & Student Support) Katia Menard Pons (Campus Life) John Fritsch (Corporate Relations / Alumni Affairs) United States Georgia Tech-Lorraine A. French Building, Suite 207-C 237 Uncle Heinie Way Atlanta, GA 30332-0740 Phone: 404-894-2380; FAX: 404-894-2997 Contacts: Allie Crain (Undergraduate & Graduate enrollment) Catherine Bass (Undergraduate Program questions after acceptance into program) Alina Opreanu (Administrative Affairs and Graduate Program questions after acceptance into program - visas/housing) Andrea Gappell (Marketing, Communications, Strategic Initiatives, Events) Relevant Links About Georgia Tech Virtual Tour of Georgia Tech Georgia Tech International Initiatives Office of Int'l Education (OIE) International Student & Scholars (ISSS) International Plan Our Partners/Nos Partenaires Grand Est Conseil Départementale de la Moselle Eurométropole Metz City of Metz Facebook Instagram Pinterest Twitter YouTube Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login