Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Research and Innovation Navigation Home About Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program Researchers Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway ResearchersResearchers Dropdown Toggle Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway Industry Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started IndustryIndustry Dropdown Toggle Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started Students & Post-Docs Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Students & Post-DocsStudents & Post-Docs Dropdown Toggle Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Participants Children in Research Open Trials ParticipantsParticipants Dropdown Toggle Children in Research Open Trials Contact Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup ContactContact Dropdown Toggle Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup Researchers Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway Home / Researchers / UofL Research Gateway UofL Research Gateway UofL provides a full suite of tools, software and programs to support the development and management of research. These tools are housed under the UofL Research Gateway, which serves as your hub for information, resources and other support for research and scholarship. Core to this suite is our first-class Electronic Research Administration (ERA) system, Cayuse, and its adjoining tools for finding funding, applying for limited submission opportunities, proposal management and more. The Research Gateway supports the UofL research enterprise, minimizing administrative burden and giving faculty and research administrators the tools they need to conduct the groundbreaking work they do everyday. Tools and software include: Fund Finder, powered by Pivot: Find and apply for external funding opportunities Pivot can help you with locating and securing funding to support research and scholarly activity - a time consuming, highly competitive endeavor. Pivot is an easy-to-use searchable database that will help researchers and scholars across all disciplines find external funding opportunities from federal, foundation, corporate, and other private sponsors. Pivot also provides a number of additional tools to support researchers, including the ability to identify potential collaborators and the opportunity to establish newsletters and automated notifications for customized funding opportunities. More information on using Pivot is available here. Competitions, powered by InfoReady: Apply for limited submissions and internal grants Targeted for release in winter 2021-22.InfoReady helps researchers find and apply for internal and limited submission funding opportunities. These programs can be critical to the success of your research program, but navigating the application and selection process is often a challenge. InfoReady is a centralized, online portal that streamlines the process of applying for internal grant programs and limited submission opportunities from external sponsors. InfoReady replaces the cumbersome emails, spreadsheets, and shared folders historically used for internal competitions and is a one-stop location for internal funding opportunities, reviews, and award notifications. More information on using InfoReady is available here. iRIS: Electronic research administration iRIS is a system for the administration and management of academic research. Maximizing the amount of time actively spent on research and scholarship is essential to the development of new ideas and to the discovery of new knowledge, but the administrative and compliance requirements associated with these activities often require significant time, energy, and effort. UofL utilizes iRIS’s web-based platform to facilitate the submission, review, approval, and administration of disclosures, proposals and awards, and compliance protocols. The iRIS system is currently used to support COI disclosures, IRB, IBC, and IACUC requirements, and the administration of externally sponsored programs. (Some of these functions will move to Cayuse in the future.) More information on using iRIS, including video and training guides, is available here. Or contact the IRIS service account at iris@louisville.edu. Cayuse: Electronic research administration Cayuse is a system for administration and management of academic research. Cayuse system was developed with the vision to make life easier for researchers. This cloud based, connected research suite will integrate with Pivot and InfoReady to support the research lifecycle through the implementation of several electronic research applications; pre-award/proposals, sponsored projects, risk management (IACUC and IBC), and resource management. More information on using Cayuse, including video and training guides, is available here. CITI: Training and certifications The CITI Program, or Collaborative Institutional Training Initiative, is a platform where researchers can discover and complete required trainings ahead of conducting research. CITI offers a number of courses, ranging from RCR training to an introduction to grant writing. More information on using CITI, including video and training guides, is available here. ORCID: Share your work and publications Open Researcher and Contributor ID (ORCID) is a nonprofit organization helping create a world in which all who participate in research, scholarship and innovation are uniquely identified and connected to their contributions and affiliations, across disciplines, borders and time. When you register to obtain your unique ORCID iD, that number will attach to your research outputs and follow you throughout your professional career, creating a comprehensive repository of your work. Your ORCID iD is not affected by name changes, cultural differences in name order, inconsistent abbreviations and formats, or use of different alphabets. Registering your ORCID iD is an online process that should take less than one minute. If you don’t already have an ORCID iD, register for an ORCID ID here. It takes only a few steps to register and should take less than one minute. Once you have an ORCID ID, add works to your ORCID record. Please find instructions here. Your ORCID profile will be automatically updated if you permit trusted organizations to add/update works for you. More information on using ORCID, including video and training guides, is available here or via the following resources below. Training Recording Training Slides ORCID for Researchers Guide “ORCID 101” 4 min. video Information about Publishers and ORCID Information about Funders and ORCID Researchers Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway CONTACT For more information or assistance with launching and using these tools, please contact: OFFICE OF RESEARCH & INNOVATION University of Louisville 300 E Market Street Louisville, Kentucky 40202 MORE INFORMATION Phone (Main) 502.852.6512, 502.852.8361 (Fax) Looking for a unit within the Office of Research and Innovation? Contact information here. Email Email Research and Innovation Service Account © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville