No images? Click here February 21, 2022 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Feminist Craft Night Join the Women's Center and the United Nations Association-Women for Feminist Craft Night. Food provided. Monday, February 21, 5:30pm, Cultural and Equity Center. events.louisville.edu/event/feminist_craft_night_activist_posters#.Yg5aRd_MKUk IMPORTANT INFORMATION Hazing and initiation activities The term hazing means any action or situation which recklessly or intentionally endangers mental or physical health; creates an atmosphere of servitude; involves dangerous, demeaning or ridiculing activities; involves the forced consumption of alcohol or drugs or other object; for the purpose of initiation, admission into, affiliation with, or as a condition of continued membership in, a group or organization. louisville.edu/dos/students/studentpoliciesandprocedures/student-handbook/student-handbook/#hazing ACADEMICS Information session Master of Public Health Join Dr. Brian Guinn and Bryan Mathis from the School of Public Health & Information Sciences as they share more information about the Master of Public Health program at UofL. Location: Ekstrom Library W210. When: Tuesday, February 22, 12pm–1pm. louisville.edu/sphis/academics/mph-program Minor in Social Justice & Health Equity New for Fall 22. This minor will equip undergraduate students with the knowledge and skills to understand the historical, socio-political, and economic context through which to engage individuals, organizations, communities, and structures for justice and social change. louisville.edu/sphis/academics WHAT'S HAPPENING Student Parent Meetup Are you a UofL student parent? You are invited to the Student Parent Association Meetup to meet other student-parents, plan events/activities or just hang out. Free snacks and refreshments will be available. Come join others with similar interests. February 23, 2–4pm, Women's Center. louisville.edu/womenscenter/student-organizations/student-parent-association Family Friendly Event 12th Annual Human Trafficking Awareness Conference The focus of this year’s conference will feature human trafficking in Kentucky, preventative state efforts and support for victims. The program will be recorded. February 24, 2022, 5:00pm. For more information: louisville.edu/womenscenter/our-programs/human-trafficking-awareness-conference Registration: https://bit.ly/3GFyqk4 Feminist Game Friday Join the Women's Center for fun, games and snacks. February 25, 12:00–2:00pm Cultural and Equity Center MPR. events.louisville.edu/event/feminist_game_friday_2352#.Yg5bHt_MKUk Directing Showcase auditions Audition for six shows at once. Performance last week of classes. Friday, February 25, 6pm-9pm in the Thrust Theatre. 2314 S Floyd St. For more information: studiotheatrecompany@gmail.com or www.facebook. com/studiotheatrecompany Studio headshot fundraiser Need a professional headshot? Studio Theatre Company's got you covered. 5 poses for $10, digital copies only. February 26 from 12–6pm at the Belknap Playhouse. 1911 S. 3rd St. www.facebook.com/studiotheatrecompany Registration for Graduation Celebration The Cultural Center's Graduation Celebration is open to UofL graduates on all levels. The ceremony takes place on May 12 at 6pm in the SAC Ballroom, and will highlight the cultures of our diverse student population. You must register online to order a free graduation Kente cloth, Serape or sash. Register now. Kentucky Women's Book Festival, March 5 Register to attend the KWBF virtual webinar KWBF featuring award winning poet, Joy Priest, author of Horsepower and two young authors, De'Coriyanna Garrett and Cherish Wilson. Register: bit.ly/3GAmpfM. For more information, visit: louisville.edu/womenscenter/our-programs/kwbf. Family Friendly Event AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Call for nominations: 2022 Student Awards The 2022 Student Awards are open to all UofL students and RSOs. 23 categories encompass group and individual awards, including Outstanding Student, and Student Employee. The nomination deadline for awards is March 1 at 5:00 p.m. For more information, please visit Engage and click on Forms. Provost's Award for Exemplary Advising Do you appreciate your advisor? Advisors provide exemplary service to the university and advocate for their students daily. The Provost Award for Exemplary Advising is a chance to honor their work. Learn more and nominate your advisor for this outstanding award at louisville.edu/advising/award DONATE, VOLUNTEER Supplies for Success SGA and the Student Success Center are hosting a donation drive for course materials such as iClickers, calculators, safety goggles, or lab coats for future students. If you have materials to donate, please drop them off at BAB Student Success Center or SAC W310. Donation dates are Feb 21–Mar 11. louisville.edu/studentsuccess SPORTS Ballroom Dance Club in the SRC The Ballroom Dance Club meets Tuesday evenings in the SRC, learning dances such as the foxtrot, swing, salsa, cha cha, waltz, and hustle. No experience and no partner required. A new dance is featured each month. Its a great way to meet people...come dance with us. louisville.edu/intramurals/sports-clubs Baseball home opener The UofL Baseball team hosts Xavier on Tuesday, February 22, at 3 p.m. at Jim Patterson Stadium. They will also be playing a series against Dartmouth, Friday through Sunday (February 25–27). Admission is free to all fans. gocards.com/calendar Rosters for Handball and Racquetball due The deadline to sign up for Handball and Racquetball is Wednesday, Feb. 23 at 4:30 P.M. Login to IMLeagues.com/louisville to sign up. If you have any questions please let Kat Halbleib know. Wellness Watch Having trouble staying motivated and on track with those New Year goals? Check out our latest Wellness Watch article. Let's build better habits this year to reach those goals. louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness/other-programs/Starting%20Healthy%20Habits.docx/view Tennis matches at home The Women’s Tennis team starts the week off Friday, February 25 at 4 pm against Duke. The Men’s Tennis Team has a doubleheader on Saturday, February 26 at 12 PM against Indiana and UNC at 5 pm. Sunday the Women’s Tennis rounds up the weekend against North Carolina at 12 pm. Admission is free. gocards.com/calendar Women’s Lacrosse at home The UofL Women’s Lacrosse team hosts Virginia Tech on Saturday, February 26 at 12 pm. Admission is free for students at the UofL Lacrosse Stadium. gocards.com/calendar SUSTAINABILITY UofL Free Store: Free Sale Tuesday, Red Barn The student-run UofL Free Store in SAC W303C hosts pop-up Free Sales for your convenience on last Tuesdays of each month (2/22, 3/29 & 4/24). Stop by the Red Barn 11:30am-1:30pm to browse the great FREE STUFF we have available for you (or drop off donations!) of clothing, shoes, accessories, etc. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/uofl-free-store-free-sale-4 Second general meeting Come join the Student Sustainability Coalition for our second meeting of the semester online using Microsoft Teams. We will discuss upcoming events, plans for the organization, and ways to get more involved. Wednesday, February 23, 6:00pm. More information. EcoReps Lunch & Learn Fri: Humane Education Monthly EcoReps workshops feature locals making a difference in sustainability & a free vegetarian lunch! Women & Gender Studies Prof. Tami Harbolt is a certified humane educator & member of WAGS Pet Therapy of KY. Her therapy dog will be present as well. Friday, 2/25, Noon, Ekstrom 254 or Teams. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/ecoreps-lunch-learn-humane-education Emily Nuñez wins Ecolympics week 2! Shoutout to Bettie Johnson Hall leading the Dorm Drawdown & to REACH Student Assistant Emily Nuñez won our 2nd week prize basket with a whopping 10 sustainable actions (using reusable bags, bottles, and towels; unplugging electronics; and reusing grease in bird food)! Take action, share it, & win! louisville.edu/sustainability/events/ecolympics-2022 ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I am struggling with my mental health. What should I do? A. UofL has a Counseling Center for students located in the Student Activities Center. It is free service for currently enrolled students. The Counseling Center is open M-F from 8am – 5pm and offers urgent consultations for crisis situations from 8:30am-4:30pm. For more information, call (502) 852-6585 or visit http://louisville.edu/counseling/. DID YOU KNOW? There are academic, university event, HSC event, and university holiday calendars online for your convenience. louisville.edu/calendars/ CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe