[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Competency-Based Degree Programs / Bachelor of Science in Organizational Leadership and Learning – Healthcare Leadership Track /-/images/pages/hcl/BSOLL-HCL_Header.jpg Healthcare education for career advancement. bsoll hcl-program-page organic ../../programs/competency-based-degree-programs/healthcare-leadership-cbe?tab=apply Veronica Johnson Online Enrollment Counselor Online Healthcare Leadership Track: Bachelor of Science in Organizational Leadership & Learning The online Healthcare Leadership (HCL) program is designed for individuals with substantial experience in the healthcare field who are missing the proper credentials for increased pay or promotions within their organization. Offered by the College of Education and Human Development at the University of the Louisville, this program will provide you with the skills for career advancement within multiple healthcare settings. It will enrich your capabilities to lead and manage organizational change adeptly, and improve performance metrics. Leveraging your prior work experience, the Prior Learning Assessment (PLA) component allows you the opportunity to earn up to 48 college credits tuition-free. Also, with the option of either a Term Option (term-based) or Flex Option (competency-based education) degree path, you can advance through the program at the speed that’s right for you. A success coach will be with you along the way to ensure that you have all the tools and guidance necessary to succeed in this program. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ 100% ONLINE COURSEWORK With UofL Online, students can complete this degree on their own time through fully online coursework. Learn More Save Up To $24k IN TUITION Save up to $24,384 in tuition for workplace learning and military training, with our Prior Learning Assessment (PLA). Learn More 36 CORE UofL CREDITS Take one 8-week course at-a-time and stay on track. Enhance your expertise with new skills and knowledge. Learn More How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Term option online students follow the standard tuition and payment policies. Flex option online students pay before starting each course (non-refundable). Highlights Offering multiple dates for you to begin—start next month or next semester with our Flex and Term Options for enrollment. Gain the opportunity to earn recognized digital badges from industry partners including IBM, Google, Microsoft, Adobe and more—included in multiple courses at no additional cost. Fully-online—24/7 access to classes. Hone your skills with curriculum based on the National Center for Healthcare Leadership (NCHL) competency model—the first in the state and region! Save time and money with the Prior Learning Assessment (PLA) to earn college credit for your work experience. $250.00 per credit hour tuition rate for qualifying active-duty and Reserve/National Guard. Graduate within 3 semesters (full-time students). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Term or Flex You may choose between two enrollment options to accommodate your learning style and life demands. Term Option The Term Option provides you with 8-week, structured courses and guided learning. This format allows you to focus on one or two classes at a time. “I was able to finish this program in about ten months because this program was tailored to me specifically.” — Rachel McClain '17 Flex Option (Competency-Based Education) The Flex Option is a competency-based education (CBE) model that allows you to move more quickly through course material you already know so that you can focus on the learning you need to know. Learn more about competency-based education under the FAQ tab. Credit for Prior Learning In the first online core course, Prior Learning Assessment, students evaluate and document their learning from work experiences as well as technical and specialized training to receive credit for the specialization. They may earn up to 48 credit hours in the specialization component at no cost (equivalent of up to 16 courses). Documentation for work experience and specialized training include, but not are not limited to CNA, CMA, Certified EKG Technician, Certified Pharmacy Technician, Certified Coding Specialist, Certified Phlebotomy Technician and more. Students then proceed to the remaining courses in the designated track. Transfer Credit If you previously started a bachelor's degree but didn't finish, UofL's online organizational leadership and learning bachelor's is designed to help you achieve degree completion. Transfer up to 60 hours from a community college and up to 90 hours from an accredited 4-year college. You can also take all your general education requirements online at UofL! UofL Academic Advisers are available to assist with your degree planning. Are you a KCTCS student? Students who have been enrolled at a KCTCS school and have fulfilled all general education requirements can have them transferred in their entirety and may begin immediately with online upper level coursework at UofL. Visit our KCTCS Transfers Page for more information. "If I ever wanted to be more or do more, I needed that degree and the confidence that comes with it. Over the years, I had learned so many valuable leadership skills. Many of these skills, I did not even recognize until I participated in LEAD 307...I am so very passionate about (UofL's BSOLL-HCL) program and am grateful for what it has done for me." TAMMY WEBER BSOLL Healthcare Leadership Grad '19 Graduated in 2 semesters What will I learn as a healthcare leadership student? The demand for healthcare occupations is expected to add more jobs between 2019-2029 than any other occupational groups, with a projected growth rate of 15% (bls.gov). UofL’s bachelor’s in Healthcare Leadership prepares you to be an effective leader for this growing employee base as well as to better manage change for the organization through the evolving healthcare industry. You will enhance the skills and expertise needed to manage and advance your career in your clinic, service or department setting, in public or private healthcare organizations. What can I do with a healthcare leadership degree? Develop your capabilities and knowledge to advance your career in the health administration and/or healthcare management. Our graduates have accepted positions in leading companies including Baptist Health, Cigna, Humana, Inova Health System and more. Graduates have earned positions including, but not limited to: Clinic manager/administrator Community health operations manager Health insurance manager Health policy manager Health systems specialist Healthcare process administrator Healthcare logistics manager Healthcare organization manager Military healthcare, operations manager Nursing supervisor Nursing supervisor Public health manager You can also increase your potential earnings. The average annual salary for medical and health services managers with a bachelor’s degree is $104,280 (bls.gov). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Term Option Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall I August October 1 Fall II October December 1 Spring I January February 1 Spring II Late February May 1 Summer May Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Flex Option Application Deadline Term Start Date Complete your application and submit supporting documents at least 2 weeks before desired start date. Rolling First Tuesday of each month (except December). Start Your Application (Term Option) Start Your Application (Flex Option) Steps to Apply “Take the leap. There’s no time like the present, and I think that this program provides so much flexibility that it’s kind of a no brainer.” — Rachel McClain '17 Complete undergraduate application for the desired enrollment option (Flex or Term) and start date Submit application fee of $25 Submit professional resume – attach within the application form as prompted Order official college transcripts from all previous institutions Check for Scholarships Note: Electronic transcripts are only accepted directly from the institution(s). Please have electronic transcripts sent to adetran@louisville.edu. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Minimum of 24 college credits completed at an accredited institution preferred* Applicants with less than 24 hours of transferrable credit who meet all other admission requirements can be admitted into the continuing studies program to fulfill requirements with proof of: High School grade point average of 2.50 or above, or successful completion of the General Education Development (GED) tests Completion of the Kentucky Pre-College Curriculum ACT composite score of 21 or above Minimum GPA of 2.70 for all college credit previously earned Minimum of 2,000 hours (approximately one year total) of supervised work experience in a healthcare-related position, within the past 5 years * See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. Not meeting the admission requirements? If you do not meet one or more admission requirement(s), you may submit a petition for admission requirement waiver within the application form, in conjunction with all other application materials, explaining 1) how this program fits in your career planning and 2) why the unmet requirement(s) will not be a barrier to success in this program. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselors at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. The online bachelor’s in healthcare leadership is a 120 credit hour online program, broken down into the following steps: Healthcare Leadership Required Curriculum The curriculum for the Healthcare Leadership online program is based on the National Center for Healthcare Leadership’s competency model, one of the leading industry standard models for healthcare executive competencies development—the first of its kind in the state and region. UofL has partnered with several technology industry vendors including IBM, Google, Microsoft, and Adobe to provide the opportunity to earn recognized technology micro-credentials in the courses, at no additional cost. Course List Credit Hours LEAD 307 Prior Learning Assessment (PLA) for Healthcare Leaders 3 LEAD 308 Needs Assessment in Healthcare Organizations 3 LEAD 309 Managing Projects in Healthcare Organizations 3 LEAD 410 Fundamentals of Healthcare Human Resource Management 3 LEAD 413 Management of Diversity in Healthcare Organizations 3 LEAD 415 Organizational Change in Healthcare 3 LEAD 416 Principles of Healthcare Leadership and Management 3 LEAD 430 Healthcare Finance and Accounting 3 LEAD 431 Healthcare Information Management 3 LEAD 432 Healthcare Quality Evaluation 3 LEAD 433 Healthcare Law and Ethics 3 LEAD 450 Healthcare Leadership Culminating Undergraduate Experience 3 Total Required Credit Hours 36 Healthcare Leadership Courses Available as Electives Course List Credit Hours LEAD 310 Healthcare Presentations and Group Facilitation 3 LEAD 417 Coaching and Talent Management in Healthcare 3 LEAD 418 Conflict Management in Healthcare Organizations 3 LEAD 419 Healthcare Workplace and Information Ethics 3 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions FEATURED FACULTY If this education opportunity matches your needs and goals, contact us today and we’ll help you get started on the path to success! General info Is UofL’s Heathcare Leadership program accredited? Yes, the BSOLL (Healthcare Leadership) program at UofL has the same accreditation as the university. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACSCOC). How do I get credit for work/life knowledge? One of the first courses that online students will take in this program is the Prior Learning Assessment (LEAD 307). This course counts as three-credit hours toward degree completion, and the activities within the course provides the basis for faculty members to assess the level of competency development gained through past knowledge, skills, certifications, and experiences that you have accumulated throughout your career. What types of certifications can count towards the Prior Learning Assessment? There are many certifications that can count towards tuition-free college credit in the Prior Learning Assessment course. For example, the following medical certifications include but not limited to: Certified Coding Specialist Physician-Based (CCS-P) Certified Patient Care Technician (CPCT) Certified EKG Technician (CET) Certified Phlebotomy Technician (CPT) Certified Clinical Medical Assistant (CCMA) Certified Medical Assistant (CMA) Certified Nursing Assistant (CNA) Registered Behavior Technician (RBT) Certified Professional Coder (CPC) Certified Pharmacy Technician (CPhT) How many college credits can I earn for my work/life knowledge? You may earn up to 48 credits hours (of the 120 credit hours necessary for graduation) based on your past work/life development and knowledge, through the Prior Learning Assessment, at no cost to you. This can result in savings up to $23,856 in tuition. When can I start in this program? Term Option students can start in Fall (term 1 or term 2); Spring (term 1 or term 2) or Summer (one term). Flex Option students can start on the first Tuesday of any month, except December (a total of 11 starts per year are available). What happens if I need to stop taking courses for a while? For exceptional circumstances, your dedicated Success Coach will outline options for you to follow in order to maintain progress toward degree completion. How long will it take to complete the requirements for a bachelor’s degree? For Term Option students – students can complete the program within 3-4 intensive semesters, taking two 2-week sessions per semester. For Flex Option students – the length of the program will vary based on your existing competencies, the amount of college credit you obtain for previously-acquired knowledge, your learning pace, and even your professional schedule. What requirements do I have to meet to graduate? Graduation is determined based on the following criteria: Successful completion of your General Education courses Successful completion of your Core Content courses You must earn at least 120 credit hours total (this can include: the PLA, articulated transfer credit, institutional credit, CLEP, etc.) At least 50 credit hours must be completed at the 300+ level You must have a 3.0 cumulative GPA and a 3.3 GPA in the program (B+ or better is 3.3 for the Program) Will I earn my degree from UofL? Yes. The “Bachelor of Science” will be granted by the University of Louisville and represented as such on the diploma. The transcripts will reflect the completion of curriculum requirements in Organizational Leadership and Learning, Healthcare Leadership Track. About CBE (Competency-Based Education) What is CBE (Competency-Based Education)? Competencies are typically defined as abilities, knowledge and skills that enable a person to do something successfully or efficiently and to act effectively in a job or situation within an organization. “Competency-based education” is an innovative learning model that helps working professionals obtain a bachelor’s degree at their own pace and on their own time. CBE students at the University of Louisville may earn up to 48 college credits for their work experience and other types of learning completed previously (training, college coursework, professional development, military service, etc.) through Prior Learning Assessment during the initial phase of the program. The program’s curriculum is based on the National Center for Healthcare Leadership competency model, one of the industry leading standards for the development of competent healthcare executives. Additional information about the basis for our competency model can be found at www.nchl.org. How does CBE work? According with the U.S. Department of Education, the Competency-Based Education model is a way of transforming learning from seat time to “a structure that creates flexibility and allows students to progress as they demonstrate mastery of academic content, regardless of time, place, or pace of learning. Competency-based strategies provide flexibility in the way that credit can be earned or awarded, and provide students with personalized learning opportunities.” How is CBE course different than a campus or online course? The main difference is that a competency-based course allows students to demonstrate proficiencies and competencies in a specific discipline and topic, earn credit for the knowledge they already have, and move ahead through the required curriculum, learning new knowledge at their own pace. Students may choose between two enrollment paths: Flex Option Students have 1 to 32 weeks to move through the course material at their own pace, providing more schedule flexibility and individual determination of pace. Term Option Students enroll in 8-week courses and complete each course within a pre-determined time frame, offering the benefits of accelerated courses within a more traditional university structure. How are the CBE courses delivered? CBE courses are delivered 100% online, using Sagence as a learning platform. Sagence will release the courses once the student has passed the knowledge test. Students can access their course materials, assignments, discussion boards, and group work anytime and from anywhere. Will my diploma identify the CBE or online delivery method? Students completing the Bachelor of Science in Organizational Leadership and Learning, Healthcare Leadership track will receive the traditional University of Louisville Bachelor of Science diploma with no mention of delivery mode or CBE. Will the credits earned in the bachelor’s degree at UofL through the CBE program be transferable to another institution or degree? Yes. All credits earned in this program are transferable. Admissions/Enrollment What are the Work Experience requirements for this program? Candidates must have a minimum of 2,000 hours (one year) of supervised work experience in a healthcare or healthcare-related organization within the past 5 years. Healthcare experience can be drawn from a very wide range of health services organizations including hospitals, medical clinics, pharmaceutical sales, medical logistics, military healthcare, health insurance, long term care, allied health services, etc. Prospective students can count service that includes administrative, clinical, and/or educational. Do I need to procure and send in my official transcripts? Yes. Acceptance into the CBE program will require submission of official transcripts from all institutions of higher education previously attended. Please have your official transcripts sent directly to UofL. Send all admission materials to the Undergraduate Admissions office at the following address: University of Louisville Office of Admissions, Dept AO Louisville, Kentucky 40292 United States of America Or email to: adetran@louisville.edu How long will it take for my transcripts to be evaluated? Typically, our admissions team will evaluate transcripts in the order they are received, within one week from receipt. Tuition/Financial Aid Is financial aid available? How do I apply? Yes. Financial aid is available to students who qualify. Some restrictions may apply for Flex Option students. Please contact our enrollment counselor who will connect you with the financial aid representative for more details regarding your financial aid application. Can I get a refund if I start the program and do not want to finish my course(s)? Term Option students are eligible for a refund according with standard undergraduate policies. Flex Option students are eligible for a refund only up until they begin a course. Once a student starts in a course, they are no longer eligible for a refund. Is Tuition Assistance available for active duty military? Yes, Tuition Assistance (TA) is currently available for active duty military at the rate of $250 per credit hour (subject to change without prior notice). Are other forms of financial aid or scholarships available? Some employers may provide tuition support through employer reimbursement programs. You must check with your employer to identify availability of this type of support. There are no scholarships available for the Flex Option program. As a UofL employee, will my tuition remission benefit cover the flex option? No, the employee tuition remission benefit will only cover the term option. Can I use my VA benefits to finance this degree program? No, students cannot use VA benefits to finance the program (flex or term option). Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link