No images? Click here November 15, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews IMPORTANT INFORMATION Scooter Policy Reminder The UofL Cardinal Community aspires to model and align with the Cardinal Principles through their everyday interactions on our campus. Scooter users are reminded that parking scooters on a sidewalk, pedestrian corridor, bicycle path, handicap access ramp, stairs, in doorways, or other access points is prohibited. Blocking of these pathways and ingress/egress points can be dangerous. Cardinals who utilize wheelchairs, crutches, carts, and other mobility facilitation devices are impacted when scooters are parked inappropriately. Access the full policy here: louisville.edu/policies/policies-and-procedures/pageholder/pol-moped-scooter-and-motorcycle-use Considerations for smart social media use Online habits are changing rapidly from that of a closed, private environment to an open and sharing culture. While this may bring about positive results, it is important to be aware of the possible dangers. The University of Louisville community is committed to encouraging all persons, whether student, staff, or faculty, to accept responsibility for their personal behavior and future success. louisville.edu/dos/students/studentpoliciesandprocedures/social-media-guidelines Student Meal Plan Information Fall meal swipes, retail meal exchanges, & TDD expire on 12/14/2021. Unused points will roll and be added to your spring meal plan. All meal plans will revert back to the standard plan. The portal for Spring 2022 changes will open once charges post. Visit the Cardinal Card website to make changes. EVENTS Celebrating Indigenous Cultures: Movie Night Join us for dinner, a movie and a discussion on current Native American & Indigenous realities led by Dr. Selene Phillips. Tuesday, November 16, 6pm, College of Business, BS 106. raiseRED Trivia Night Join us for the raiseRED Week of Hope Trivia Night on Tuesday (11/16) from 7-8pm in Strickler 102. You can also join via Zoom! www.instagram.com/raisered_uofl Sign-up your team beforehand using the Google Form Link in @raiseRED_UofL Instagram Bio. raiseRED Fundraising Workshop raiseRED Week of Hope Fundraising Workshop will be Wednesday (11/17) at 7pm in Davidson 103. Join us to learn some tips and tricks to help you fundraise. www.instagram.com/raisered_uofl/ raiseRED Open Mic Night Join us for the raiseRED Open Mic Night on Thursday (11/18) from 6:30-8pm in the Strickler Auditorium. www.instagram.com/raisered_uofl Calm Café Join us for Calm Café on Tuesday (12/7) from 11 a.m.-4 p.m. in SAC W116, W117, and W118. Enjoy free food + coffee/tea, massages, a nap zone, and more! WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS Intramural Sports Food Drive Cold weather brings higher demand for food and hygiene items. Intramural Sports is partnering with the Commonwealth Credit Union Cardinal Cupboard to address those insecurities on our campus. Donation boxes are located at the SRC and HSC Fitness Center. Thank you in advance for your contributions. Badminton Club in the SRC The Badminton Club meets on Friday evenings in the SRC from 6-9pm on the upstairs gym floor courts. Professional instruction and open play is available in a low-key, inclusive environment. See our website for contact information. Wellness Watch Have you checked out our latest Wellness Watch article? We cover a wide range of topics throughout the year. This week we are talking about corrective exercises and how they can benefit you in the long run. louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness/other-programs Duo of Men’s Basketball games this week Louisville Men’s Basketball hosts Navy this Monday at 8 p.m. and Detroit Mercy on Saturday at 2 p.m. Promotions include a Cardinal Cupboard Food Drive Monday night and Teddy Bear Toss on Saturday. $15 student tickets are now available while supplies last! uofl.me/mbbstudenttix Duo of Women’s Basketball games this week Louisville Women’s Basketball hosts Bellarmine for the season opener this Tuesday at 7 p.m. and UT Martin on Wednesday at 7 p.m. Promotions include free schedule magnets for early arriving fans at the KFC Yum! Center on Tuesday night. Admission is free for students. gocards.com/calendar Volleyball game at home this week The No.1-ranked Volleyball team in the nation takes on Duke Friday at 7 p.m. in L&N Federal Credit Union Arena. Promotions include a Cardinal Cupboard Food Drive, live DJ, and Happy Hour Friday. Admission is free for all students. gocards.com/calendar Sign up for the 2021 Intramural Turkey Trot This year the Intramural Turkey Trot will take place on Monday, Nov. 22. The Women's race is 1 mile and will start at 3:30 P.M. and the Men's race is 2.2 miles and will start at 3:45 P.M. Make sure to sign up on IMLeagues.com/louisville by Nov. 17 at 4:30 P.M. to secure your spot. SRC Thanksgiving Hours The Student Recreation Center will close at Noon on Wednesday, November 24 and will remain closed until 6:30 AM Monday, November 29 in observance of the Thanksgiving holiday. We hope you enjoy a safe and happy Thanksgiving. HSC Fitness Center Thanksgiving Hours The HSC Fitness Center will close at Noon on Wednesday, November 24 and will remain closed until 6:00 AM Monday, November 29 in observance of the Thanksgiving holiday. We hope you enjoy a safe and happy Thanksgiving. SUSTAINABILITY UofL Free Store now open in SAC MWF 11am-1pm The UofL Free Store is a space for the free exchange of clean, useful items. Come "shop" for free clothing, shoes, accessories, linens, household items, bath/beauty/school/art/cleaning supplies, etc. Reuse, reuse, reuse! Donations wanted! The Free Store is open in SAC W303C Mon/Wed/Fri 11am-1pm. Website. Bicycle Friendly University campus survey UofL has applied to the League of American Bicyclists to be considered for a renewed Bicycle Friendly University award. As such, the League is requesting anonymous feedback by today: Monday, 11/15 from all those familiar with bicycling conditions at UofL: www.surveymonkey.com/r/BFU2021 Sustain Roundtable: Community Farm Alliance Join the UofL Sustainability Council on 11/16 as we continue our Fall Sustainability Roundtable series on alternate Tuesdays 4:00-4:50pm on Teams. Our speaker, Jann Knappage, CFA Board Chair, will share about their work defending Kentucky’s family farms. Website. Garden Commons Wreath Making Workshop Get in the holiday spirit by learning to make your own beautiful wreath using a variety of plant materials from campus & herbs from our garden. It's easier than you might think and you'll take home something beautiful and unique. Friday 11/19, 11am-2pm, Garden Commons (SW Corner of Strickler Hall). Website. EcoReps Lunch&Learn: Community WealthBuilding Monthly EcoReps workshops feature locals making a difference in sustainability & a free vegetarian lunch! UofL alum Cassia Herron is a leader in Kentucky’s local food movement and a community organizer, urban planner, writer, and social justice warrior. Friday, 11/19, Noon, Ekstrom 254 or Teams. Website. UofL Shelby Campus Community Recycling Event Got junk? Don’t trash it! UofL’s Shelby Campus (440 N Whittington Pkwy) is hosting a free drop-off recycling event Saturday, 11/20, 10am-2pm for: Electronic items; Metal & appliances; Car tires; Household recyclables; Yard waste & wood pallets; Documents for shredding; and Prescription medications. Website. ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. Are there any faith-based organizations on campus? A. Yes! There are many groups and several faiths represented on campus through the Religious Life Association. To learn more about religious life at UofL, visit louisville.edu/religion. You can also search for faith-based recognized student organizations on UofL Engage by visiting louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/organizations. DID YOU KNOW? If you need assistance and don't know where to go, contact the Dean of Students office at 502-852-5787 or visit the office at W301 in the SAC. ALSO, look for which campus office can help with your question or need online at UofL ConcernCenter: louisville.concerncenter.com CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe