Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection RedMed Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection RedMed Plone Menu School of Medicine Homepage Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Facebook Academics About Us Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni & Visitors About Us View Our Mission & Goals Strategic Plan Office of the Dean Accreditation Academic Departments Affiliated Institutes Future Students View All Future Students Information Admissions: School of Medicine Financial Aid: School of Medicine Student Affairs Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Programs & Degrees Distinction Track Program Integrated Programs in Biomedical Sciences (IPIBS) eQuality Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Financial Aid Student Affairs Academic Technology Office Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Distinction Track Program Integrated Programs in Biomedical Sciences (IPIBS) Office of Community Engagement and Diversity Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Faculty Affairs SoM Marketing & Communications Academic Technology Office Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Academic Departments UofL Faculty Mentoring Program and Resources UofL Faculty Handbook UofL Emergency Management Residents & Fellows View All Residents & Fellows Information Residency Programs Fellowships Programs & Degrees School of Medicine Admissions Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Academic Technology Office Student Affairs Office of the Dean Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Contact us Alumni & Visitors View All Alumni & Visitors Information Giving to the School of Medicine School of Medicine News Releases Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Office of the Dean Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Fellowships Contact us Research Research Information School of Medicine News Releases Cancer Research Research at the Health Sciences Center Medical Education Research Unit Clinical Trials Open at UofL Clinical Trials Unit Research Laboratories Contact us Patient Care Patient Care Information Pediatric Medicine Cardiovascular Care Ear, Nose, and Throat Eye Care Specialists Family Medicine Geriatric Care Primary Care OBGYN Services Surgery Sports Medicine Find a Physician 502-588-6000 View all services Outreach Community Outreach Information Kentucky Area Health Education Centers (AHEC) SoM Office of Community Engagement and Diversity HSC Office of Diversity and Inclusion Kentucky Cancer Program Clubs and Organizations Free Clinics Depression Center Outreach & Education Giving Home/ School of Medicine Admissions/ Admissions Policies/ Technical Standards Navigation School of Medicine Admissions Application Process Admissions Policies Residency Requirements International Applicants "Choose Your Medical School" Policies Early Decision Transfer Students Deferral Policy Technical Standards Criminal Background Check Policy Honor Code Diversity Vision Statement Notice of Nondiscrimination Student Resources Programs Why UofL? FAQ Contact Technical Standards UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE SCHOOL OF MEDICINE TECHNICAL STANDARDS FOR ADMISSION, CONTINUATION AND GRADUATION Delineation of technical standards is required for accreditation of U.S. medical school by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education. The School of Medicine is committed to compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, and does not discriminate against otherwise qualified applicants for admission or matriculated students who have disabilities. The School of Medicine recognizes that the contract between the school and the public includes the expectation that the school will do everything reasonable to ensure that its graduates can become fully competent physicians. Patient safety must never be compromised. Acquisition of competence is a lengthy and complex process, which would be subverted by significant limitations, with or without reasonable accommodation, on the students’ ability to participate fully in the spectrum of experiences constituting the medical school curriculum. All candidates for admission, retention, promotion and graduation should be aware that the academic and clinical responsibilities of medical students may, at times, require their presence during day, evening and night hours, seven days a week. Technical standards provide criteria against which candidates for admission, retention, promotion and graduation from the School of Medicine can be assessed as the faculty operating through its committees exercises its judgment in selecting, retaining, promoting and graduating students. The curriculum of the School of Medicine has been designed to provide a generic professional education leading to the M.D. degree and to prepare students to pursue any pathway of graduate medical education and enter the independent practice of medicine. Therefore, an avowed intention on the part of a candidate to ultimately practice in only a narrow portion of the spectrum of medicine does not obviate the requirement for the candidate’s full participation in the entire educational and training continuum. In evaluating candidates for admission, retention, promotion and graduation, it is essential that the integrity of the curriculum be maintained, that those elements deemed necessary for the education of a physician be preserved, and that the health and safety of patients be maintained. All candidates for admission must fulfill the minimum requirements for admission and all candidates for the M.D. degree must complete all required courses and clerkships as listed in the School of Medicine Bulletin. Observation Candidates must be able, in classroom, clinical and laboratory environments, to acquire information from demonstrations and participate in experiments of science, including but not limited to such things as dissection of cadavers; examination of specimens in anatomy, pathology, and neuroanatomy laboratories; and microscopic study of microorganisms and tissues in normal and pathologic states. Candidates must be able to obtain a medical history and perform a complete physical examination, integrate findings based on this information and develop an appropriate diagnostic and treatment plan. Candidates must be able to recognize non-impaired versus impaired patient function or conditions. These skills require the use of vision, hearing, smell and touch, or the functional equivalent. Communication Candidates must be able to communicate effectively, efficiently, empathetically, and sensitively with patients, their families, health care personnel, colleagues, faculty, staff, and all other individuals with whom they come in contact. Candidates must be able to obtain a medical history in a timely fashion, interpret non-verbal aspects of communication, and establish therapeutic relationships with patients. Candidates must be able to perceive and react appropriately to changes in mood, activity, posture and behavior; and perceive nonverbal communication. Candidates must be able to gather, transmit and record information accurately and clearly; and communicate effectively and efficiently in English with other health care professionals in a variety of patient settings, using both written and oral form. Motor function Candidates must be able to participate in classroom, clinical, and laboratory learning environments in a timely, efficient, and effective manner. Candidates must be able to perform physical examinations (e.g., palpation, auscultation, percussion and other diagnostic maneuvers) using appropriate equipment. They must be able to respond to clinical situations in a timely, efficient and effective manner to provide general and emergency care, including adherence to universal precautions. Candidates must be able, with or without reasonable accommodation, to effectively operate a computer. These activities require some physical mobility, coordination of both gross and fine motor neuromuscular function and balance and equilibrium. Intellectual, Conceptual, Integrative, and Quantitative Abilities Candidates must be able to rapidly, consistently and accurately assimilate and analyze clinical data, perform observations, clinical measurements and calculations and problem-solve to make logical diagnoses and therapeutic judgments for patients. Candidates must be able to learn through a variety of modalities including, but not limited to, classroom instruction; small group, team and collaborative activities; individual study; preparation and presentation of reports; simulations and use of computer technology. Candidates must be able to memorize, measure, calculate, reason, analyze, integrate, synthesize, and transmit information. They must recognize and draw conclusions about three-dimensional spatial relationships and logical sequential relationships among events, as related to human anatomy and function. They must be able to formulate and test hypotheses that enable effective and timely problem-solving in diagnosis and treatment of patients in a variety of clinical settings and health care systems. Behavioral and social attributes Candidates must demonstrate the maturity and emotional stability required for full use of their intellectual abilities. They must accept responsibility for learning, exercising good judgment, and promptly completing all responsibilities attendant to their curriculum and to the diagnosis and care of patients. Candidates must display integrity, honesty, conscientiousness, empathy, a sense of altruism, and a spirit of cooperation and teamwork. They must understand the legal and ethical aspects of the practice of medicine, and must function within both the law and ethical standards of the medical profession. Candidates must be able to interact with patients and their families, health care personnel, colleagues, faculty, staff, and all other individuals with whom they come in contact in a courteous, professional, and respectful manner. Candidates must be able to contribute to collaborative, constructive learning environments; accept constructive feedback from others; and take personal responsibility for making appropriate positive changes. Candidates must be able, with or without reasonable accommodation, to tolerate taxing workloads and function in a competent and professional manner under highly stressful situations, adapt to changing environments, display flexibility, and manage the uncertainty inherent in the care of patients and the health care system. Implementation Implementation of these technical standards across the educational continuum is within the purview of the faculty of the School of Medicine operating through its faculty committee processes. It is the responsibility of the members of faculty committees to determine the appropriate interpretation and application of the standards in individual cases. Revised February 11, 2019 Approved by Faculty Forum April 29, 2019. Approved by Executive Faculty July 1, 2019 Tweet Medical Admissions 323 East Chestnut St. University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 Office Hours M-F 8:00 am to 5:00 pm Phone View contact information for the School of Medicine. Email medadm@louisville.edu Social Media Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville