Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Student Financial Aid Office Navigation Home Financial Aid: Start to Finish Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Financial Aid: Start to FinishFinancial Aid: Start to Finish Dropdown Toggle Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Loans Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment LoansLoans Dropdown Toggle Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment Grants Work Study Scholarships and Other Resources Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments Scholarships and Other ResourcesScholarships and Other Resources Dropdown Toggle Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments State Aid KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change State AidState Aid Dropdown Toggle KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change Tuition Waivers Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Tuition WaiversTuition Waivers Dropdown Toggle Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Verification Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf VerificationVerification Dropdown Toggle Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Satisfactory Academic ProgressSatisfactory Academic Progress Dropdown Toggle Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Summer Financial Aid Competency Based Education—Healthcare Leadership Flex Option Program Consumer Information Net Price Calculator ED Net Price Calculator Net Price CalculatorNet Price Calculator Dropdown Toggle ED Net Price Calculator Other Information Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Other InformationOther Information Dropdown Toggle Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Financial Wellness Contact Us Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Contact UsContact Us Dropdown Toggle Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Reporting Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Loans Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment The Direct Graduate Professional PLUS Loan is designed to assist eligible graduate and professional students enrolled at least half-time in meeting their educational expenses. These loans are federal loans, and the U.S. Department of Education is the lender. A completed Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) must be on file before your Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS eligibility can be evaluated. You may borrow up to your full cost of attendance, less any other financial assistance received. To qualify, you must meet the general eligibility requirements for federal student aid and not have an adverse credit history. If you are denied a PLUS loan due to adverse credit, you will be given the option to obtain an endorser or appeal the credit decision. Eligibility: You must be a citizen or permanent resident of the United States and be enrolled or accepted in an eligible program of study at the University of Louisville. You must be enrolled at least half-time (4.5 hours during fall and spring, 3 hours during summer) to be eligible for a PLUS loan. In order to receive financial aid, including the Direct Graduate Professional PLUS loan, you must be making Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP). If you are eligible for Direct Unsubsidized loan funds, please consider borrowing the maximum amount awarded to you before accepting any of the Grad PLUS Loan funds. The Direct Unsubsidized Loan has a lower interest rate and better repayment terms. Repayment, Interest Rates and Fees: Interest is charged on the loan from the date the first disbursement is made until the loan is paid in full. Your Direct PLUS Loan enters repayment once your loan is fully disbursed; however, your loan will be placed in deferment while you are enrolled at least half-time in an eligible program and for an additional six months after you cease to be enrolled at least half-time. Interest will still accrue during periods of deferment, and you may choose to pay the accrued interest or allow the interest to capitalize when the deferment period ends. Steps for Applying for a Federal Direct Graduate PLUS Loan: If you have filed a FAFSA and all eligibility requirements are met, the Student Financial Aid Office will automatically consider you for a Direct Graduate Professional PLUS Loan award and send you an award notification. The 2020-2021 FAFSA is associated with the Fall 2020, Spring 2021, and Summer* 2021 semesters. The 2021-2022 FAFSA is associated with the Fall 2021, Spring 2022, and Summer* 2022 semesters. Summer: To be considered for summer federal financial aid, you must complete the Early Request for Summer Federal Aid via your ULINK account, after your registration has been finalized. Accepting a Loan Offer: After receiving an award notification from our office, you must login to ULink to accept, reduce, or decline the loan offer. After acceptance of the Direct Graduate Professional PLUS Loan via ULink, our office will send your loan request to the U.S. Department of Education for consideration. If a credit check has not already been completed or if it has expired, the U.S. Department of Education will check your credit history. If your credit is approved, our office will be notified of the approval. If you are determined to have an adverse credit history, you may still receive a Direct Graduate Professional PLUS Loan if you obtain an endorser who does not have an adverse credit history. An endorser is someone who agrees to repay the Direct Graduate Professional PLUS Loan if you do not repay the loan, such as a relative or friend who is able to pass the credit check. Adding an Endorser: The Student Financial Aid Office recommends that borrower's refer to the Department of Education's Endorser Addendum Demo in preparation for completion of the Endorser Addendum. In some cases, you may also be able to obtain a Direct PLUS Loan if you document (appeal) to the U.S. Department of Education's satisfaction that there are extenuating circumstances related to your adverse credit history. PLUS Counseling is required if the U.S. Department of Education has informed you that you have an adverse credit history and you have obtained an endorser or documented to the satisfaction of the U.S. Department of Education that there are extenuating circumstances related to your adverse credit history. Entrance Counseling: If you are a first-time Direct Graduate PLUS Loan borrower at U of L, you must complete an Entrance Counseling session to be informed of your rights and responsibilities. Master Promissory Note: If you are a first time Direct Graduate PLUS borrower, you must complete a Master Promissory Note (MPN) agreeing to the terms of the loan. For further information regarding the Direct Graduate Professional PLUS Loan, you can call the Direct Loan Customer Service Center toll-free at 800-557-7394 or visit Studentaid.gov. For more information regarding Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS loan, such as interest rates, repayment, and more please visit U.S. Department of Education. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville