Skip to Content AZ Index Catalog Home Institution Home Louisville.edu Search Catalog Go Donate Campuses Academic Catalogs | 2022-2023 Undergraduate Graduate Professional Dentistry Bulletin Law School Handbook Medical Bulletin About the School of Medicine Admission to the School of Medicine MD Degree Requirements Ethical and Professional Requirements Honor Code & Professionalism Substance Use & Drug Screening Mistreatment Policy School of Medicine Policies University Policies Tuition, Fees, & Expenses Financial Aid & Scholarship Prizes & Awards Honor Societies Student Services University Services Program & Courses MD Courses A-Z SOM Bulletin Archive COVID-19 Home/ Professional/ Medical Bulletin/ Ethical and Professional Requirements Print Options Ethical and Professional Requirements Ethical and Professional Requirements Ethical and professional behaviors are the foundation of medicine. As a medical student, you are about to embark on a career which embraces some of the highest human ideals. Society will place great expectations on your personal character. Professionalism begins from day one of medical school. Students are expected to put forth their best effort towards academic success and clinical competency including regular class attendance and faithful and diligent discharge of all academic and clinical duties. Students are expected to demonstrate honesty and integrity in all aspects of their education and be considerate and respectful in their interactions with patients, staff, faculty, and peers. Each student will dress and behave as a responsible member of the medical profession seeking to bring comfort and reassurance to those he/she may serve. Each third and fourth year student is expected to wear a white coat with his/her name embroidered on it. Also, first and second year students should wear their white coats when they have contact with patients. Students should seek feedback on their own performance and are expected to accept ownership of mistakes and respond to constructive criticism by appropriate modification of their behavior. Students are expected to participate in the process of evaluating their teachers, courses, and educational experience. All patients deserve to be treated without prejudice. It is unethical for a student to refuse to participate in the care of a person based on race, religion, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, gender, age, or sexual preference. The patient's right to the confidentiality of his or her medical record is a fundamental tenet of medical care. The discussion of problems or diagnosis of a patient by professional staff/medical students in public violates patient confidentiality and is unethical. Professional relations among all members of the medical community should be marked with collegiality and respect. It is unethical and harmful for a student to disparage without good evidence the professional competence, knowledge, qualifications, or services of a colleague to staff, students, or patients. It is also unethical to imply by word, gesture, or deed that a patient has been poorly managed or mistreated by a colleague without tangible evidence. The University of Louisville is committed to and will provide equality of educational and employment opportunity for all persons regardless of race, sex, age, color, national origin, ethnicity, creed, religion, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity and expression, marital status, pregnancy or veteran status. Every effort has been made to make the catalog accurate as of the date of publication. However, the University of Louisville reserves the right to change programs of study, academic policies, academic requirements, fees, course information, procedures for the confirmation of degrees, or the announced academic calendar and related deadlines without prior notice. Copyright © 2022-2023, University of Louisville. All rights reserved. Back to Top Print Options Send Page to Printer Print this page. Download Page (PDF) The PDF will include all information unique to this page. Cancel