[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Bachelor's Degree Programs / RN to Bachelor of Science in Nursing /-/images/pages/rnbsn/2010_BSN_1596x740.jpg Take your career in nursing even further rnbsn rnbsn-program-page organic ../../programs/bachelors/rn-to-bachelor-of-science-in-nursing?tab=apply Erin Elrod Online Enrollment Counselor Online RN to Bachelor of Science in Nursing UofL's online RN to BSN program is designed for licensed nurses with an Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN) who want to earn their BSN to improve patient outcomes and excel as a leader in the field of nursing. Offered by UofL's School of Nursing, this fully online program provides the flexibility you need to balance working full-time with furthering your nursing education. Develop your expertise in nursing leadership, meet growing employer expectations and expand your ability to work with diverse global populations in a variety of settings—without any campus requirement or set class times. With a Professional Nursing Portfolio component that awards you 30-credit hours tuition-free (saving you more than a year of classwork and $11,250 in tuition), UofL's online RN to BSN provides a convenient and affordable way to build upon your previous education and expand your critical thinking so you can better serve your patients and move into nursing leadership roles within today’s rapidly changing healthcare environment. If you're ready to take the next step in your nursing career, we're here to help. The baccalaureate degree program in nursing at the University of Louisville is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791 Overview Outcomes Apply Courses Portfolio ADN | RN_BSN Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Tuition and fees are subject to change at any time without prior notice. Highlights Stepping Stone: Take the next step to becoming a leader in the field of nursing. Affordable: Save time and money by completing a professional nursing portfolio (30 credit hours tuition-free). Practical: Maintain a successful work-life-education balance by taking one course at a time with 8-week terms. Accelerated: Complete only 31 credit hours (11 courses) to earn your degree—that’s right around 20 months to graduation. Convenient: Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes* and 24/7 access to resources and tools. Supportive: Join a community of learners and instructors who understand your priorities. Personal: Participate in customized courses with small class sizes and a schedule that fits your needs. Head-Start: ADN grads can start in the program prior to obtaining the RN license. Practicum: Complete the community health leadership project at a site of your choice in your local community.* *All courses are online, however the 84-hour community leadership practicum is completed local to your area. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Earn a degree on your own time through fully online classes and access to learning tools. Learn More 8 WEEK TERMS Take only one course at-a-time in order to better juggle all of life’s demands and stay on track to graduation 30 CREDITS TUITION-FREE Complete a Professional Nursing Portfolio – save time and $11,250 in tuition. Learn More "I couldn’t have asked for anything better with this (RN-BSN program), but to be able to bring the knowledge from the classes right to the patient’s bedside." DANIEL CAMPANELLI ONLINE RN-BSN STUDENT CURRENT RN-BSN Student Resources ALL UOFL NURSING PROGRAMS Why Do I Need a BSN? As the healthcare industry grows more complex, employer demand for highly educated registered nurses increases. The American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN) strongly believes that RNs should, at minimum, be prepared with a BSN from an accredited university due to the breadth of nursing expertise gained through the standard BSN curriculum. UofL’s online RN-BSN degree doesn’t repeat what you learned through your ADN education, but supplements it with more complex, diverse and interdisciplinary coursework to make you a better-rounded healthcare provider. What outcomes can I expect? Our unique online RN to BSN curriculum is designed for nurses who want to expand their ability to work with diverse global populations and develop targeted skills in leadership and management. With a BSN, you’ll be equipped with the education credentials you need to meet employer demand for RNs with a bachelor’s, as well as pursue advanced nursing roles including: registered hospital nurse, school nurse, physician’s office nurse, clinical nurse specialist, nurse manager, nurse director, nurse case manager, public health nurse, research nurse and many more. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August October 1 Fall October December 1 Spring January February 1 Spring Late February April 1 Summer May Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning enrollment counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. Steps to Apply Informal Transcripts Review (pre-evaluation) Wonder what credits may transfer from your previous program(s) in UofL's RN-BSN Online program? Get a review at uofl.me/pre-eval. Please note that the transcripts submitted for pre-evaluation are not considered official transcripts and will not be used to determine eligibility for admission Are you an RN with the UofL Health? Contact your education liaison or HR representative to receive information about tuition remission options. Contact the School of Nursing advising office at 502.852.5368 to let them know you plan to apply to the BSN program and to review your previous credits. Complete the undergraduate application for admission Submit application fee of $25 Order official transcripts from previous institutions and have them sent directly to UofL: Office of Admissions, Dept AO 2211 S. Brook St., Houchens Bldg, Rm 150 University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Associate degree in nursing (ADN) Unrestricted RN license or eligibility to take NCLEX Cumulative GPA of at least 2.0 on all undergraduate work (on a scale of 4.0) Get a head-start on your BSN: ADN grads can join the program prior to obtaining RN licensure. UofL's online RN-BSN program is for students who are already licensed Registered Nurses or for AON graduates who are eligible to sit for NCLEX. This program does not prepare students for licensure in any state. Transfer Credit Students may transfer up to 60 hours from a community college and up to 90 hours from an accredited 4-year college. Transfer applicants must have a minimum college GPA of 2.5 to be admitted in good standing. Complete the credit transfer pre-evaluation to get an idea of how many credits you'll be able to transfer in toward your UofL bachelor's degree, and visit our General Transfer Student page for more details. Are you a KCTCS student? KCTCS students can transfer completed associate degrees in their entirety and begin immediately with online upper level coursework at UofL. Visit our KCTCS Transfers Page for more information. See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. The curriculum in the online RN-BSN program at UofL builds upon your previous knowledge and experience. The program is typically completed within 5 semesters, but 8-week courses and the flexible curriculum allows you to complete the degree at a faster or slower pace, depending on your individual situation. All coursework is delivered 100% online. The Community Health Leadership Practicum (NURS 476) courses includes 84 clinical hours, which can be completed in student’s local community. Online RN-BSN Degree Path Credit Hours Transfer credits earned during ADN education or complete general education requirements online at UofL 59 Complete a Professional Nursing Portfolio as part of the RN-BSN program (saving you $11,250) 30 Complete the remaining required RN-BSN Core courses 31 Total Credits 120 Based on credits transfered (earned during ADN education) from other regionally accredited institutions "[The RN-BSN program] made me very confident as a nurse, and I’m so excited to graduate and to say that I’m a Card!" — Heather Hooper '18 Online RN-BSN Core Courses NURS 355 Portfolio (equivalent to 30 credit hours tuition-free) NURS 381 Foundations for Evidence-based Professional Nursing NURS 382 Nursing Research for Evidence-based Practice NURS 383 Case Management for Individuals and Families NURS 385 Nursing Leadership and Health Policy NURS 387 Pathophysiology and Pharmacotherapeutics for RNs NURS 388 Global Health: Disparities and Social Determinants - SBD2 NURS 470 Community Health Nursing NURS 476 Community Leadership Practicum - 84 clincal hours, completed in the student’s local community NURS 482 Health Promotion for Individuals, Families and Communities NURS 488 Leadership Project Sample RN-BSN Program Plan Fall Start Fall 1st 2nd 381 387 355 7 credits Spring 1st 2nd 388 383 6 credits Summer 1st 2nd 482 382 6 credits Fall 1st 2nd 385 488 6 credits Spring 1st 2nd 470 / 476 6 credits Spring Start Spring 1st 2nd 381 387 355 7 credits Summer 1st 2nd 482 382 6 credits Fall 1st 2nd 388 383 6 credits Spring 1st 2nd 470 / 476 6 credits Summer 1st 2nd 385 488 6 credits This is not an official plan and should only be used as a guide. Your advisor will work with you to build your actual plan of study customized to your goals and needs. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Earn 30 Credit Hours Tuition-Free Upon enrollment into the program, you will be tasked with compiling a Nursing Portfolio that demonstrates your training and abilities in one package. These documents include but are not limited to your professional resume, academic transcripts, community service hours, professional goals, continuing education hours and other accomplishments. The completed portfolio awards you 30 credit hours tuition-free, which translates to $11,250 in savings and over a year of coursework in time. You’ll also be equipped with a powerful resource for future job interviews, clinical agency advancement and more. Why should I choose UofL? The UofL School of Nursing offers an RN-BSN program in an academic health sciences center. Students benefit from the focused curriculum and personal attention of the faculty in a large, metropolitan university setting. Our 100% online courses are taught by well-prepared nursing faculty who are engaged in nursing practice, scholarship, and community service, but also committed to quality distance learning programming. Is the online RN-BSN program at UofL accredited? The baccalaureate degree program in nursing at the University of Louisville is accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. What are the benefits of online learning? Online learning at UofL provides learning that is independent of time and location. Rather than gathering in a classroom, students and instructors use technology to interact. Classes follow the same semester calendar as traditional classes, however students only need a computer and Internet access to complete their coursework. Our program structure allows registered nurses to maintain their professional engagements while earning their BSN online. Is online learning right for me? The online program offers both flexibility and convenience; however, students must be disciplined to complete course assignments within identified time frames as defined in the course syllabi. Are there any helpful tips for online learning success? Check your school email every day. In order to be in compliance with FERPA regulations, instructors, advisors and the university communicate with students via their school email account. Check Blackboard at least every two days. What are the technology requirements for the online program? Access to a computer and the Internet are required. MAC or PC format is acceptable. Advanced computer skills are not a requirement to complete the program. For details go to http://louisville.edu/online/Student-Resources/tech. The program uses Blackboard for course access and assignments, with support provided seven days a week by the UofL Help Desk. When can I start? As an added benefit of 8-week terms, the RN-BSN program offers multiple start options each semester. Currently, students can begin the program in August, October, January and March. If you are a new ADN graduate but are not yet licensed, you may start the program. You are required to obtain your RN license by the end of the first semester in order to progress. I am on active duty. Can I take online classes at UofL? Yes! You can take online classes from anywhere in the world, provided you have consistent Internet access. Our faculty and staff are very supportive of those who serve the country here in U.S. or around the world and work hard to provide all needed learning resources so you can succeed. What academic resources are available for online students? UofL offers several services for online students including: A Virtual Writing Center to assist with writing assignments Virtual tutoring services available for all undergraduate students Library services, including the “Ask a Librarian” feature from the library website IT support available from morning through the evening Is there a length of time before my credits expire? For licensed RNs, there is no expiration date for previously earned credits. Can I transfer credit from another school? The RN-BSN online program’s admission requirements include an associate degree or a diploma in nursing. You must submit transcripts from all undergraduate institutions you attended. Upon review, some or all credit may be applied to your degree program. You can also find transfer equivalency resources online at: louisville.edu/admissions/apply/transfer. How does the portfolio course, and the $11,250 in tuition savings, work? The portfolio course is worth 30 college credit hours at no charge. Credits count towards completion of your BSN. The portfolio is an electronic record of professional documents related to your nursing education, practice, and accomplishments. While assembling the portfolio is required for the program, it will be useful documentation for promotions, job applications and other professional activities. Your RN-BSN Program Director will assist you in developing your Portfolio. Are there any clinicals for the RN-BSN? Students enrolled in the RN-BSN online program will complete a community leadership practicum; which can be completed at a location of choice in your local area. What do students pay for? Students pay for books and pay tuition for the 31 core RN-BSN credit hours and any required Cardinal Core (general education), program, or elective courses. There are no additional course fees. Additional questions? Please submit an Information Request Form to connect with us and obtain more details about our program. An enrollment counselor will contact you promptly to provide assistance. CONCURRENT ENROLLMENT Jefferson Community & Technical College (Jefferson) students working toward their Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN) can now earn their RN to Bachelor of Science in Nursing in less time by taking RN to BSN courses over Summer Terms at the University of Louisville (UofL) —while they are still Jefferson students! Attend UofL as a non-degree seeking (continuing studies) student while completing your ADN at your home-school, Jefferson! GET STARTED PROGRAM BENEFITS Enroll in UofL online RN to BSN courses after successfully completing your first semester at Jefferson Get started on your RN to BSN program before taking the NCLEX (RN license exam) Graduate with your RN to BSN degree months earlier Save time and money, with JCTC and UofL low tuition rates Maintain enrollment at your “home” school – Jefferson – until you complete your ADN program. ADMISSION CRITERIA Current enrollment in good standing at Jefferson Successful completion of first ADN semester at Jefferson No prior failures in a nursing course 2.0 cumulative GPA Recommendation for enrollment provided through Jefferson APPLICATION DEADLINES For next available concurrent enrollment start - Summer Term 2023 Application open: August 1, 2022 Application deadline (preferred): April 1, 2023 Before you apply, please connect with us to learn more about qualifications, recommendation, application and admission process: JCTC contact: renee.eichas@kctcs.edu UofL contact: lemccu02@louisville.edu PATHWAY TO GRADUATION Students can complete up to 5 of UofL’s online BSN courses while still a student in the ADN program at Jefferson. NURS 381 Foundations for Evidence-based Professional Nursing (note: must be taken first) NURS 382 Nursing Research for Evidence-based Practice NURS 383 Case Management for Individuals and Families NURS 388 Global Health: Disparities and Social Determinants NURS 482 Health Promotion for Individuals, Families and Communities REQUEST INFO Overview Outcomes Apply Courses Portfolio Team FAQ ADN | RN_BSN 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link