Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Student Financial Aid Office Navigation Home Financial Aid: Start to Finish Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Financial Aid: Start to FinishFinancial Aid: Start to Finish Dropdown Toggle Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Loans Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment LoansLoans Dropdown Toggle Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment Grants Work Study Scholarships and Other Resources Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments Scholarships and Other ResourcesScholarships and Other Resources Dropdown Toggle Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments State Aid KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change State AidState Aid Dropdown Toggle KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change Tuition Waivers Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Tuition WaiversTuition Waivers Dropdown Toggle Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Verification Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf VerificationVerification Dropdown Toggle Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Satisfactory Academic ProgressSatisfactory Academic Progress Dropdown Toggle Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Summer Financial Aid Competency Based Education—Healthcare Leadership Flex Option Program Consumer Information Net Price Calculator ED Net Price Calculator Net Price CalculatorNet Price Calculator Dropdown Toggle ED Net Price Calculator Other Information Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Other InformationOther Information Dropdown Toggle Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Financial Wellness Contact Us Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Contact UsContact Us Dropdown Toggle Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Reporting Alternative Loan Loans Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment Alternative Loan An alternative student loan (also referred to as a private student loan) is not a federal student loan, but one through a private bank or other lending institution. In some cases, alternative loans have interest rates, repayment terms, and deferment options that are less favorable than those of the Direct Loan Programs. Below is a link to Great Lakes FASTChoice, a third party company that services loans for lending agencies and schools. We strongly encourage you to review each of the lender’s information to determine which benefits and terms are best for you. Take into consideration repayment terms, interest rates, and deferment and forbearance options before choosing an alternative loan lender. Some lenders may require a co-signer. You are free to select any lender, including those not presented in FASTChoice. We maintain a professional relationship with all lenders. Our office is prohibited from accepting financial or other benefits in exchange for displaying lender and loan options in FASTChoice. The advantages of using FASTChoice is it streamlines the overall process, including eliminating mailing certification forms and waiting for signatures. If you choose a lender not available on FASTChoice, the lender must send a paper certification to our office. Questions regarding a particular lender's alternative loan program should be directed to that lender. Step By Step Alternative Loan Instructions 1) Complete a FAFSA so we can evaluate your eligibility for federal aid. If there is a reason you are unable or decline to complete the FAFSA, please contact our office. 2) Consult one of our Financial Aid Advisors to determine if you have exhausted your federal financial aid eligibility. 3) The FASTChoice website will allow you to research an alternative loan option that best fits your needs. 4) Review the list of lenders, and compete an analysis and comparisons to determine which lender would best meet your needs. By clicking on the lender's site or calling the lender you may learn additional information about grace periods, repayment policies, co-signer responsibilities and other information. 5) Once you have selected a lender, you will be able to link directly to their online alternative loan application. a) If you do not specify a loan period, the processing time will be delayed. b) When providing the lender with anticipated dates of disbursement, use the following dates if you are an undergraduate or graduate student: Fall 2021 and Spring 2022 Terms: 08/23/2021 - 05/3/2022 Fall 2021 Term: 08/23/2021 - 12/14/2021 Summer 2021 Term: 05/10/2021 - 08/10/2021 Summer 2022 Term: 05/9/2022 - 08/10/2022 6) Federal regulations now require the completion of a Private Education Loan Applicant Self-Certification form for all private education loans. All students who borrow an alternative loan MUST complete a Private Education Loan Applicant Self-Certification Form (adobe pdf) and submit this form to his/her lender. This form is intended to serve two purposes: (1) informing the borrower about other options for financing his/her education; and (2) providing information to the lender about the student's educational expenses and other aid. The private loan application and disbursement process will not be completed until the signed Private Education Loan Applicant Self-Certification form has been received by the lender. If the student does not complete, sign, and submit the form within 120 days of his/her submitting the credit application to the lender, the loan will be canceled by the lender. 7) In section 2 of the form you will be asked: a) “Student cost of attendance for the period of enrollment covered by the loan.” i) Please visit our consumer information website for more information regarding cost of attendance. Dental and Medical students should check with their respective departments for information regarding cost of attendance. ii) For undergraduate and graduate students who filed a FAFSA and have been awarded aid at UofL, log into ULink and under the "Financial Aid" tile you will see an option for your "College Financing Plan." Your cost of attendance is outlined within this document. b) “Estimated financial assistance.” i) Log into ULink and under the "Financial Aid" tile you will see an option to "View My Financial Aid." Your federal, state, and institutional aid awarded is viewable on this page. iI) For undergraduate and graduate students who filed a FAFSA and have been awarded aid at UofL, log into ULink and under the "Financial Aid" tile you will see an option for your "College Financing Plan" Your federal, state, and institutional aid awarded is viewable on this page. 8) Our office will receive electronic notification of your application and will complete certification. We may need to contact you if additional information is needed.Once UofL returns the certification, your lender will review the application and your eligibility before releasing the funds to UofL. By law, a lender must provide the student with a minimum 3 day right-to-cancel after the final loan disclosure form is sent to the student. 9) The lender will disburse funds to our office electronically or by mail. You should receive a disclosure statement from your lender once funds have been sent to the university. Once the Student Financial Aid Office has processed the funds, you will be notified by email that the alternative loan funds have been received and posted to your account in the Bursar's Office. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville