Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Novel Coronavirus (nCoV2019) Navigation Home Communications and Updates 2021 Schedule of Vaccination events 2021 Sept 7-10 vaccination table Communications and UpdatesCommunications and Updates Dropdown Toggle 2021 Schedule of Vaccination events 2021 Sept 7-10 vaccination table Students Health Requirements and Procedures Spring 2022 Student Acknowledgement Statement 1.4.22 Final StudentsStudents Dropdown Toggle Health Requirements and Procedures Spring 2022 Student Acknowledgement Statement 1.4.22 Final Faculty Health Requirements and Procedures FacultyFaculty Dropdown Toggle Health Requirements and Procedures Employees Supervisors Health Requirements and Procedures Reopening Campus Committees EmployeesEmployees Dropdown Toggle Supervisors Health Requirements and Procedures Reopening Campus Committees Visitors Health Protocols UofL COVID Quarantine and Isolation Protocols Spring 2022 Health ProtocolsHealth Protocols Dropdown Toggle UofL COVID Quarantine and Isolation Protocols Spring 2022 Faculty Health Requirements and Procedures Home / Faculty Summer 2022 Information for Faculty This page contains faculty information about the summer 2022 semester. For information on vaccines, testing, quarantine, isolation and other campus protocols and procedures that apply to all university members, please visit the Health Protocols tab. Categories 2022 semesters overview Procedures for classroom instruction Resources for researchers 2022 semesters overview The university has returned to in-person and asynchronous online courses for the 2022 semesters and all university members are expected to continue following the health and safety protocols to ensure we can maintain an on-campus experience. We want to offer students a robust residential experience with in-person courses and fully staffed student services. Online courses are available for students who need flexibility. Faculty teaching in-person courses may incorporate some online expectations to their coursework to utilize the benefits that online tools have proven to provide so long as classes occur in person and meet according to the published schedule of classes. Teaching mode may not be changed after a course has been scheduled and posted; thus, in-person courses must meet in person. Online tools may certainly be used for things such as virtual breakout sessions or group collaboration assignments, but faculty may not schedule remote synchronous classes for an in-person course unless that is part of the faculty member’s continuity of instruction plan for when they themselves are experiencing symptoms or instructed to quarantine or isolate. As stated in Section 4.3.1.B of the university Redbook, “...Temporary absence from residency for faculty members during the period when their contract requires them to be in residence shall be arranged in accordance with regulations of the unit Each faculty member is responsible for the conduct of assigned courses and is required to meet such classes and make such assignments as will fulfill the intent of the courses.” Back to the top Procedures for classroom instruction COVID-19 vaccines are strongly encouraged but not required. At this time, no unit, college or school is permitted to require their students to get vaccinated except for the Schools of Medicine, Nursing, Dentistry, Music, and the Theatre Arts program due to the increased risk these schools’ instructional methods and learning experiences have demonstrated. MORE INFORMATION Recommendations for adopting student-centered course policies Masks are optional in all classrooms and indoor settings except for clinical settings. Physical distancing is encouraged, but not required when a space can accommodate six feet between students. Classrooms have resumed normal capacity and have traditional seating arrangements this semester. Disinfection stations will be available in classrooms. Physical Plant will supply disinfectant spray, towels and hand sanitizer. Attendance expectations for in-person courses and in-person aspects of online courses may be established by faculty but accommodations must be made when students have a university-excused absence or public health exigencies occur, such as the ongoing pandemic. Faculty should provide options for making up work when students abide by the university's health and safety protocols by staying home when they have COVID-19 symptoms, when they’ve been instructed by the health department or contact tracers to quarantine due to exposure, or when they are isolating due to a positive test. Faculty should not require doctors' notes for these types of intermittent absences from classes. The Delphi Center has developed this very helpful guide, Supporting Students in Quarantine, which provides multiple resources and instructions to faculty. Additionally, see the following examples of make-up work options faculty may offer to students who miss a class due to abiding by health and safety protocols: Encourage the student to identify a classmate that would be willing to share notes. Allow students to submit assignments due in class through Blackboard if unable to submit in person. Record your lecture sessions using Panopto, a recording app that has been integrated into Blackboard. These recordings can be made available to selected viewers only or posted for anyone in the course to review. Ask students to view slide decks or other learning resources that have been provided through Blackboard and summarize in writing as evidence of completion. Set up virtual office hours using Microsoft Teams or Blackboard Collaborate. Refer to the Supporting Students in Quarantine guide for more detailed instructions and examples of items mentioned above. Please note: only if a student misses a major assessment or exam due to having symptoms or being instructed to quarantine or isolate may faculty request medical documentation. Continuity of Learning and Continuity of Instruction plans should be determined for each course. Faculty should include a section in their syllabi that describes what each plan is so that students are clear on how to make up work when they are ill or are observing COVID-19 symptoms and cannot attend class. Similarly, it should be clear what actions will be taken if the faculty member becomes ill or needs to observe COVID-19 symptoms. Students who disclose they've tested positive for COVID-19 should be guided to follow the health and safety protocols by staying home and informing Campus Health as soon as possible. Campus Health will provide them with specific isolation guidance. The university's Contact tracing, isolation and quarantine protocols provide more details and cover the differences between isolation and quarantine procedures. Students will be informed by the health department, their medical provider or Campus Health's contact tracing team when they have clearance to return to in-person classes on campus after being in isolation. Proof of a negative test is not required to return to in-person classes, nor should it be requested by faculty and staff. Students who say they're not comfortable attending class in person should be reminded that the vaccines available in the United States are effective and masks provide increased protection. Fully online courses are still available at the university, but hybrid nor remote courses are an option this semester. Back to the top Resources for researchers For research re-opening plans, resources, and FAQs, visit the Research and Innovation webpage. Back to the top Faculty Health Requirements and Procedures University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 (800) 334-UofL (8635) (502) 852-5555 twitterfacebookyoutubeinstagramlinkedin Be Prepared Learning remotely Teaching remotely Working remotely Travel info General Resources CDC: Coronavirus Situation Summary CDC: Prevention & Treatment CDC: FAQs KY Covid-19 Resources UofL Research Information Support UofL Students and Research Questions? UofL Question Center © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville