Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection RedMed Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection RedMed Plone Menu School of Medicine Homepage Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Facebook Academics About Us Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni & Visitors About Us View Our Mission & Goals Strategic Plan Office of the Dean Accreditation Academic Departments Affiliated Institutes Future Students View All Future Students Information Admissions: School of Medicine Financial Aid: School of Medicine Student Affairs Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Programs & Degrees Distinction Track Program Integrated Programs in Biomedical Sciences (IPIBS) eQuality Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Financial Aid Student Affairs Academic Technology Office Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Distinction Track Program Integrated Programs in Biomedical Sciences (IPIBS) Office of Community Engagement and Diversity Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Faculty Affairs SoM Marketing & Communications Academic Technology Office Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Academic Departments UofL Faculty Mentoring Program and Resources UofL Faculty Handbook UofL Emergency Management Residents & Fellows View All Residents & Fellows Information Residency Programs Fellowships Programs & Degrees School of Medicine Admissions Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Academic Technology Office Student Affairs Office of the Dean Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Contact us Alumni & Visitors View All Alumni & Visitors Information Giving to the School of Medicine School of Medicine News Releases Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Office of the Dean Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Fellowships Contact us Research Research Information School of Medicine News Releases Cancer Research Research at the Health Sciences Center Medical Education Research Unit Clinical Trials Open at UofL Clinical Trials Unit Research Laboratories Contact us Patient Care Patient Care Information Pediatric Medicine Cardiovascular Care Ear, Nose, and Throat Eye Care Specialists Family Medicine Geriatric Care Primary Care OBGYN Services Surgery Sports Medicine Find a Physician 502-588-6000 View all services Outreach Community Outreach Information Kentucky Area Health Education Centers (AHEC) SoM Office of Community Engagement and Diversity HSC Office of Diversity and Inclusion Kentucky Cancer Program Clubs and Organizations Free Clinics Depression Center Outreach & Education Giving Home/ School of Medicine Admissions/ Application Process/ Prerequisite Requirements Navigation School of Medicine Admissions Application Process Prerequisite Requirements MCAT Nonacademic Factors Complete AMCAS Application Complete Secondary Application Submit Letters of Recommendation Interviews Admissions Policies Student Resources Programs Why UofL? FAQ Contact Prerequisite Requirements Academic Preparedness Because the prospective medical student with a broad educational background profits most from the medical curriculum, preference is given to applicants with a bachelor's degree. In selecting courses, the premedical student should be aware of the broad scope of the medical profession. The biological basis for the practice of medicine is traditional and appropriate because medicine in its technical aspects is an applied biological science. Modern medical practice also requires a working knowledge of chemistry and physics to appreciate vital processes in both health and disease. To be successful, medical students must be able to read rapidly and with understanding, and express thoughts clearly and concisely. Premedical students should develop a solid background in the humanities, psychology, sociology, philosophy and the arts. Understanding human relationships and human nature is vital to the practice of medicine. Students are encouraged to take courses which would be difficult to acquire after the college experience is completed. The School of Medicine seeks to admit well-rounded students with broad and diverse educational experiences. Minimum Requirements Applicants must complete the following courses prior to matriculation. Since the Admissions Committee reviews the complete academic portfolio of applicants being considered, advanced course work which strengthens the premedical academic foundation will be favorably viewed during the evaluation process. Course Requirements Minimum Semester Hours BIOLOGY: requirement is met by one semester of cellular biology with lab and one semester of organismic biology with lab. Survey courses (an introductory course of study that provides a general view of an academic subject) in anatomy and physiology cannot be substituted for this requirement. AP and IB Biology credit is not accepted toward this requirement. If your undergraduate institution accepted AP or IB Biology credit, two upper level Biology courses with labs are required. 8 GENERAL CHEMISTRY: requirement is met by a one-year sequence in general inorganic chemistry with labs. 8 ORGANIC CHEMISTRY: requirement is met by a one-year sequence in organic chemistry, including all major categories of organic compounds. While organic laboratory courses are valuable for individual student goals and degree requirements, they are not required by our Admissions Committee. 6 PHYSICS: requirement is met by a one-year sequence in general physics with labs, including mechanics, electricity, heat, light and sound. Specialized courses in sub-disciplines cannot be substituted for any part of this requirement. 8 ENGLISH: requirement is met by two semesters of writing, literature, and/or speech communication courses. AP and IB credit is acceptable for one semester only and cannot fulfill the requirement in full. One semester may be substituted with a writing intensive course. 6 BIOCHEMISTRY: requirement is met by a one semester Biochemistry course. Please note, this course is a new admissions requirement beginning in the 2021 admissions cycle. 3 STATISTICS (RECOMMENDED): While not required, a course in statistical methods is recommended. 3 A year is defined as a minimum of 32 weeks, including two (2) semesters or three (3) quarters of coursework. All science courses applied to the premedical requirements must include laboratory work, with the exception of Organic Chemistry. Course Credit Policies Grading and Pass/Fail Coursework Applicants must receive a letter grade of C or higher for all required prerequisite courses. Substitutions for the premedical science requirements can only be allowed if replaced by advanced work in the same area. Applicants will receive credit for any Spring 2020 pre-requisite course for which they receive a “pass” under a pass/fail grading system. Advanced Placement (AP) and International Baccalaureate (IB) Credit AP and IB credit may be used to satisfy prerequisite course requirements, with the exception of Biology, provided that credit is awarded by your undergraduate degree-granting institution and posted on your transcript. If lab credit was awarded through AP/IB credit by your institution, it must be explicitly stated on your transcript. If your undergraduate institution accepted AP or IB Biology credit, two upper level Biology courses with labs are required to fulfill prerequisite requirements. ULSOM will not accept CLEP credit for any prerequisite course work. Online and Community College Credit The University of Louisville School of Medicine does not distinguish between courses completed at online or land-based universities as long as the courses are completed at an accredited (i.e. SACS, North Central, New England, Western, etc.) institution. See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information https://louisville.edu/admissions/apply/transfer/services/course-credit Credit granted by junior/community colleges is also accepted. All coursework must be graded in order to fulfill prerequisite requirements or be supplemented by graded, advanced work in the same subject area. Paramedical and Medical School Credit Courses in paramedical schools (such as pharmacy, nursing, optometry, medical, etc.) do not fulfill the premedical science requirements. Courses taken at non-accredited institutions will not be accepted. Applicants who have been dismissed from other medical schools for scholastic or disciplinary reasons will not be considered. International Credit Credit from institutions outside the United States is accepted, however, applicants must have obtained the equivalent of a U.S. bachelor's degree and have completed a minimum of 24 credit hours from an accredited college/university in the U.S. View more information regarding Admissions Policies on residency requirements and international student policy. The Admissions Committee reviews all course work completed at the undergraduate, post-baccalaureate, and graduate levels. Applicants or advisors may contact the Office of Admissions with specific questions regarding fulfillment of premedical requirements. Tweet Medical Admissions 323 East Chestnut St. University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 Office Hours M-F 8:00 am to 5:00 pm Phone View contact information for the School of Medicine. Email medadm@louisville.edu Social Media Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville