No images? Click here November 8, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews IMPORTANT INFORMATION Academic Dishonesty Policy Student Rights & Responsibilities Section 5: Academic dishonesty is prohibited at the University of Louisville. It is a serious offense because it diminishes the quality of scholarship, makes accurate evaluation of student progress impossible, and defrauds those in society who must ultimately depend upon the knowledge and integrity of the institution and its students and faculty. http://louisville.edu/dos/students/studentrightsandresponsibilities Brand Evolution information sessions UofL’s Brand Evolution Initiative includes building a culture around our brand value, launching an external marketing campaign and rolling out a strategic, university-wide communications framework. Students can join upcoming information sessions where the Office of Communications and Marketing will: Help the Cardinal Family re-connect with our vision and mission and gain a better understanding of creating emotional connections with our audiences to inspire action Develop a shared understanding of overall UofL brand elements, including messaging and visuals Share information about UofL’s external brand campaign, which will launch in early 2022 Sessions are Nov. 10, 12, and 15. Visit the events calendar to find and register for the session of your choice. Proposed policy on military program integrity A new university policy is being proposed on military program integrity rules. We would like to receive your feedback. The proposed policy will be open for your comments through November 18, 2021. Email your comments to policies@louisville.edu Commencement stories The University seeks to highlight individual students as a way to illustrate the experiences many students share working toward graduation. We are looking for students to share their “story,” specifically graduating students who had a great UofL experience, who had a unique UofL experience, who have exciting opportunities after graduation that may or may not relate directly to your chosen major, or students who have overcome challenges on their way to graduation. Additional Information: Website SGA NEWS SGA executive staff opening SGA is hiring for a new Director of Government Relations. We are looking for someone committed to civic engagement who is an effective communicator, accountable, and organized. You'll have the opportunity to work with Kentucky legislators from across the political spectrum and truly make an impact. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/submitter/form/start/512658 ACADEMICS Public Health Minor Do you want to learn more about public health to compliment your current major? If so, consider a public health minor. catalog.louisville.edu/undergraduate/minors/public_health-minor/ Celebrating December LGBTQ+ Graduates Do you know LGBTQ+ students who are graduating in December? Encourage them to register for Rainbow cords! Cords will be presented during Alternative Thanksgiving, November 22, (registration required), OR can be picked up at the Cultural & Equity Center (see link). Deadline: Nov 18. louisville.edu/lgbt/programs-1/lavender-graduation/lavender-graduation-celebration What do you want to do with your life? ECPY 302 is a 3-credit elective allowing for exploration of personal and professional interests while completing projects related to the class topic. Register now for Spring 2022! Learn about the course and see what others have said about its impact: https://louisville.edu/findyourfit EVENTS SOAR Thank-A-Thon Stop by the SAC Marketplace on November 9 from 12pm–2pm to sign thank you cards to thank donors for all that they do. A wonderful opportunity to give back to those that have given us so much. Family Friendly Event Movie, discussion, & free pizza on Tuesday Virginia Walden Ford is a mom whose fight for school choice went all the way to the Supreme Court. Her journey inspired "Miss Virginia," which we will view, followed by comments and Q&A with Virginia. Join us for her inspiring story, popcorn, & pizza, Tuesday, 11/9 at 4 in Floyd Theatre. Cultural Conexiones: Indigenous Student Panel The Cultural Center and Bellarmine’s Office of Identity and Inclusion present a student panel discussion on celebrating and exploring the current Indigenous experience locally, nationally, and globally. This panel will be moderated by Dr. Selene Phillips. See you there. November 16, 6 p.m., College of Business, BS 106. louisville.edu/culturalcenter Family Friendly Event AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Red Barn Scholarships are available Please apply through Engage at: louisville.edu/studentaffairs/scholarships. There are several scholarships. The deadline for applications is 5:00 PM on December 6, 2021. CLUBS, GROUPS, & ORGANIZATIONS Student Parent Association The Student Parent Association will present a Conversation with former student parents as part of its SPA Adulting Series, Tues., November 9 at 6 p.m. Survival tips will be shared. To receive a link to the Microsoft Teams meeting or more info., email womenctr@louisville.edu by 11/8. louisville.edu/womenscenter/student-organizations/student-parent-association/moms-support-group SPA Legal Awareness Workshop Join the Student Parent Association Adulting Workshop on Legal Issues, Tues., November 16 at 6 p.m. Child custody, parenting and other issues will be facilitated by a judge & lawyer. Register by 11/12, womenctr@louisville.edu for this Microsoft Teams meeting. louisville.edu/womenscenter/student-organizations/student-parent-association/moms-support-group WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS MAX Night at the SRC Our fall Max Nights will be on November 9 and 10. Winners of each weight class will receive a prize and bragging rights. Squat: Nov 9, Bench Press: Nov 19, Deadlift: Nov 10, 4pm–8pm each night. 4 weight classes for men, 3 weight classes for women. Spotters will be available. Duo Men's Basketball games this week Louisville Men’s Basketball hosts Southern for the season opener this Tuesday at 9 p.m. and Furman on Friday at 7 p.m. Promotions include free t-shirts for early arriving students at both games and a student tailgate Friday. $15 student tickets are now available while supplies last! Swim Meet and Bowling Singles deadline The deadline to sign up for the IM annual Swim Meet and Bowling Singles is Nov. 10. The Swim Meet will be held at the UofL Natatorium and Bowling Singles will be at Executive Strike and Spare. Register at IMLeagues.com/louisville. Volleyball game at home this week The No. 2-ranked Volleyball team in the nation takes on Georgia Tech Friday at 7 p.m. in L&N Federal Credit Union Arena. Promotions include keychain giveaway to early arriving fans, live DJ, and Happy Hour Friday. Admission is free for all students! Ice Hockey Club hosts Ohio this weekend The Ice Hockey Club will face Ohio University this Friday evening and Saturday afternoon at Iceland Arena. First puck drops at 8:00pm Friday and 2:30pm Saturday. Tickets are $7.00 with student ID at the door. Come early and pack the stands as the IceCards take on the Bobcats. www.cardsicehockey.com Football at Cardinal Stadium this week The Cards face off against Syracuse at Cardinal Stadium this Saturday in another ACC showdown in The Ville. Promotions include a halftime jersey retirement ceremony for Louisville legend Lamar Jackson. Get your discounted $15 student tickets now: gocards.com/students CAREER DEVELOPMENT Department of Criminal Justice Career and Internship Fair Join the Department of Criminal Justice for the Career and Internship Fair. More than 20 employers will be in attendance (virtually). November 12, 1 PM – 4 PM, Virtual. Register on Handshake: louisville.joinhandshake.com ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. Is there a resource on campus to help with writing papers? A. Yes! The UofL Writing Center can help with any point in the writing process, from getting started, to writing the first draft, to revision and copyediting. Visit louisville.edu/writingcenter or call (502) 852-2173 for more information. DID YOU KNOW? If you are looking for off-campus housing that is affiliated with the University of Louisville, visit offcampushousing.louisville.edu CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe