[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Bachelor's Degree Programs / Online Bachelor of Arts in Sociology /-/images/pages/basoc/2010_BASOC_1596x740.png Understand social structures. Influence our society. basoc basoc-program-page organic ../../programs/bachelors/bachelor-of-arts-in-sociology?tab=apply Chester Morton Online Enrollment Counselor Online Bachelor of Arts in Sociology The online Bachelor of Arts in Sociology is designed for working professionals who want to earn their bachelor’s degree, as well as better understand social issues and make a difference in society. Offered by the College of Arts & Sciences at the University of Louisville, the bachelor’s in sociology transforms how you approach your role in society by providing you the information and context to examine how social structures shape one’s attitudes, actions and opportunities. With a focus on diversity and inequality, you will learn to take an analytical, evidence-driven approach to social issues, and to use analytical insight for effective formulation and implementation of social policy. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Highlights Gain valuable critical thinking skills and a greater understanding of how social structures form, evolve and influence individuals. Develop the interpersonal communication skills necessary to craft persuasive narratives. Build a versatile set of skills and knowledge, for which employers across all industries actively recruit. Earn a research-based sociology degree taught by the same published faculty within the Department of Sociology as the on-campus program. Transfer in your associate degree or other earned credit from regionally-accredited institutions. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this degree on your own time through fully online classes. Learn More 121 PROGRAM CREDIT HOURS Transfer in credit, or take general education, core and elective courses at UofL. Learn More $508 PER CREDIT HOUR Take advantage of UofL’s military-friendly rate of $250 per credit hour (for active duty). "The opportunities for sociology students are indefinite. What you’ve learned can be used to improve the way that a system operates, and to certainly improve the lives of those around you." RYAN SCHROEDER, PH.D. SOCIOLOGY DEPARTMENT What career opportunities are there for someone with a bachelor’s in sociology? The field of sociology interacts and permeates with many other fields, occupations, and industries. Sociology is an in-demand degree with employers as the graduates are equipped with the skills to combine effective critical thinking with an understanding of human behavior, efficient communication and conflict-management strategies. Sociology graduates are well-prepared to pursue careers in fields such as: Social services Human resources Marketing Public relations Criminology Policy-making Education Public and private research Law Journalism Advocacy Community development These careers can be found in profit, non-profit and government organizations. Furthermore, a sociology degree can bring a lifelong benefit to your professional life. Since the sociology skillset is so versatile, you could enter a career field and, in the future, change career paths or effectively adapt to the chance of technology innovation changing your position. This also applies if you enter a career field you don’t find fulfilling. You’ll be prepared with the skills to more easily transition to a field that satisfies your personal and professional interests. Will this bachelor’s in sociology prepare me to become a sociologist? This is the first stepping stone to reach that goal. With your undergraduate degree in hand, you can go on to pursue the advanced education you need to become a sociologist. Sociologists design and perform research projects regarding social issues to deliver analyses for policymakers, research facilities, and more. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average salary for a sociologist is $86,110 per year (bls.gov). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May/June Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete undergraduate application Submit $25 non-refundable application fee Submit official transcripts from all institutions previously attended Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Graduation from an accredited high school GED or equivalent by petition (e.g., home school education) Grade Point Average of 2.5 or higher Composite ACT score of 20 or higher Completion of pre-college curriculum Completion of Sociology 301 (or an approved equivalent) with a grade of C or better Transfer Credit Students may transfer up to 60 hours from a community college and up to 90 hours from an accredited 4-year college. Transfer applicants must have a minimum college GPA of 2.5 to be admitted in good standing. Complete the credit transfer pre-evaluation to get an idea of how many credits you'll be able to transfer in toward your UofL bachelor's degree, and visit our General Transfer Student page for more details. Are you a KCTCS student? KCTCS students can transfer completed associate degrees in their entirety and begin immediately with online upper level coursework at UofL. Visit our KCTCS Transfers Page for more information. See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. Start Your Application The online bachelor’s in sociology from UofL is a 121 credit hour program that follows the degree requirements of the College of Arts and Sciences: Cardinal Core requirements – all undergraduate degrees require completion of the university-wide Cardinal Core Program (31 credit hours) Arts & Sciences programmatic requirements (22 credit hours) Sociology core and elective courses (39 credit hours) Electives in social sciences (29 credit hours) Arts & Sciences Programmatic Requirements: 22 hours Courses Hours General 101: A&S Orientation 1 Foreign Language (completion of the second semester of a single foreign language; hours will vary depending on language taken) 12 Electives in Humanities or Natural Sciences with at least 6 hours at the 300+ level (in addition to courses counted toward Cardinal Core requirements) 9 WR—two approved courses at the 300 level or above (may be incorporated into other degree requirements) (6) Core Program Courses: 39 hours Courses Hours SOC 201 Introduction to Sociology 3 SOC 202 Social Problems or SOC 210 Race in the United States 3 SOC 301 Introduction to Social Statistics 3 SOC 303 Introduction to Research Methods 3 SOC 320 Social Theory 3 SOC 323 Diversity and Inequality 3 Environment, Health and Population Studies courses (select one): SOC 305, 306, 307, 315, 329, 340, 342, 343, 350, 392, 394 3 Social Inequalities, Behavioral and Structural Studies courses (select two): SOC 325, 327, 334, 336, 344, 346, 374, 380 6 Sociology electives at the 400 level with at least one CUE-designated course included 12 Supporting Courses: 29 hours Courses Hours Social Sciences supporting courses (choose 2): ANTH 201, LALS 310, PAS 200, WGST 201, WGST 301 6 Electives in Social Sciences other than Sociology of which 6 hours must be at 300+ level 12 Additional electives, student choice 11 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions What are the benefits of online learning? The biggest benefit of online learning is that you can work to earn your degree from your own home while raising a family, working full-time or experiencing particular life circumstances that make commuting to campus difficult or impossible. How is the online program different than the campus program? At UofL you are taught by the same world-class faculty as our on-campus students. You read the same books, do many of the same assignments and earn the same degree. Neither your transcript nor your diploma notes your degree was completed online, only that you completed courses at the University of Louisville. The biggest difference is that you are able to do coursework on your own time and in a way that best fits your learning and lifestyle. Can I receive credit for courses completed at another school? On a case-by-case basis, credit transfer is allowed from an accredited university to fulfill general education requirements. See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. I noticed that the Department of Sociology offers both a Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science in Sociology. Can the Bachelor of Science in Sociology also be completed fully online? No, at this time only the Bachelor of Arts in Sociology will be offered fully online. The Bachelor of Science (BS) in Sociology requires an internship-type course that includes an in-class component, so completing the BS online is not currently an option for fully online students. Is the Sociology Student Association (SSA) available for online students? Unfortunately, the SSA meetings and activities are campus-based. However, you are encouraged to join the international association for sociology - the American Sociological Association. Their Student Forum website links students to career information for sociology majors, networking possibilities, and invitations to upcoming events. I have never attended college (or I have earned less than 24 credits so far). Can I earn this degree online? Yes, you may begin – or continue – your college degree at UofL by choosing a fully online degree. Are courses taught by UofL faculty? Yes, all sociology courses are taught by full- and part- time faculty who work in the Department of Sociology and also teach our on-campus sociology courses. As such, our instructors are already familiar with the UofL system and are committed to the success of UofL and its students. Overview Outcomes Admissions COURSES TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link