No images? Click here February 1, 2022 SGA Elections Packet Open Interested in being a part of the Student Government Association? Join leaders of SGA to learn more about SGA and its upcoming election season. Packets close Friday, February 4, 2022 at 5PM. For any questions, contact sgacourt@louisville.edu or visit www.uoflsga.com/elections Free tutoring Your online course(s) could be eligible for free online tutoring through REACH. Check to see if tutoring is available for your course(s) and for workshops, strategies, as well as guides on learning online, productivity, time management, test taking, and more. reach.louisville.edu/tutoring Grad school: tips for your personal statement Are you thinking about applying for a graduate degree program? The personal statement is your opportunity to sell yourself in the application process. Check out this resource from the UofL Writing Center for tips on how to ace this section of your application. Free access to Adobe Creative Cloud UofL is an Adobe Creative Campus providing students free access to the Adobe Creative Cloud suite of applications, including Photoshop, InDesign, and many more, for producing better digital materials and collaborating on media creation. Learn more. Public Health Preview Day Plan to attend the virtual Public Health Preview Day on February 26, 9 am to learn about the various study options and career opportunities in the field of public health. RSVP required. Virtual Study Abroad Fair Meet virtually with study abroad program providers over four days, January 31–February 3, to learn about opportunities to study abroad. Each session is 30 minutes–1 hour, between 3–6 pm daily. Find session links on the Engage event. Gilman Scholarship info sessions Earn up to $5,000 to offset the cost of a study abroad program. Must be a Federal Pell Grant recipient or Pell Grant eligible to apply. Virtual sessions at 12:30 pm on 2/8, 2/15, 2/22 and 2 pm on 2/11, 2/18, 2/25. Email klguin02@louisville.edu to RSVP to a session. Did you know? The Student Advocate helps students navigate educational, personal, and other obstacles that affect their ability to succeed in college. The Student Advocate also assists with compassionate withdrawals. If you have a question or concern, you can bring it to the Student Advocate by emailing advocate@louisville.edu. Online Student Resources Subscribe University of Louisville 2100 S. Floyd St. Student Activities Center, W301 Louisville, KY 40208 You are receiving this email because you are a University of Louisville online student. If you choose to unsubscribe, you agree to no longer receive important UofL news and updates. Unsubscribe