Skip to content We Are Cardinals At the University of Louisville, we do more than learn. We create. We ignite. We push. We make impacts that make a difference. Here, we unleash students’ potential to fuel their success while elevating society through our research and innovation. We build connections with our city that lead to transformation across the globe. And we do it all together. Because once a Cardinal, forever a Cardinal. Forever connected to a dynamic community driving needed change. Forever committed to helping a better world take flight. Here and beyond. Our people power our progress. Take, for example, Rawan Saleh, a junior who is speaking up to end racism. In the coming months, we will introduce you to more of the passionate individuals who embody the Cardinal spirit. Keeping waterways safe Sam Kessler Senior Environmental Analysis, Public Policy and Environmental Mitigation major Learn More Connor May ’16 Class of 2016 School of Music graduate Composer and musician Learn More Creating the Here & Beyond anthem Rawan Saleh Junior Public Health major Learn More Speaking up to end racism Lexi Raikes Senior Political Science, English and French major Truman Scholar Learn More Setting a higher standard Karen Udoh Third-year medical student Founder, Future Healers Program Learn More Inspiring future healers Onu Udoh Third-year medical student Founder, Grow502 Learn More Reducing health disparities Andrea Behrman Professor, Neurological Surgery Executive Director, UofL Kosair Charities Center for Pediatric Neurorecovery Learn More Putting Innovation in Motion Sundar Atre Professor Endowed Chair, Manufacturing and Materials Manufacturing a brighter future Michael Henderson ’19 College of Education and Human Development graduate Online MBA student Demand Generation Specialist, GE Pursuing a professional path Cedric Merlin Powell Wyatt, Tarrant & Combs Professor of Law Brandeis School of Law Setting students up for success Allison Williams Doctoral student Experimental Psychology Understanding how children learn Austin Brimm Junior Geography major Air Force ROTC Fostering leadership & service Get more from Here & Beyond Be the first to know how Cardinals create thriving futures. We’ll send you a note each month as we highlight members of the Cardinal Community who are making a difference. Name Email Subscribe The Musicians Behind the Music Get an insider’s look at the making of the new Here & Beyond anthem. Share Your Pride Once a Cardinal. Forever a Cardinal. Open and save these graphics and let everyone know you’re leading the charge to help a better world take flight. Social media – Square Social media – Vertical Desktop Wallpaper Mobile Wallpaper Apply Donate Visit University of Louisville 2301 S 3rd St. Louisville, KY 40292 Info News Contact