[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? WE THRIVE TOGETHER Sort by program Filter By Program Type All programs Bachelor’s Degrees Competency-Based Programs Master's Degrees Doctoral Degrees Certificate Programs Pending Approval/Coming SoonFilter By Interest Area Filter By Interest Area All Interests Accounting Administration Arts & Sciences Business Communication Computer Science Criminal Justice Data Data Science Education Engineering Entrepreneurship Equine Studies Family Business Healthcare Human Development Humanities Human Resources Human Services IT/Technology Leadership Nursing Political Science Project Management Public Health Psychology Social Sciences Social Work Special Education Sports Teaching Theatre Find Program Request Info Apply Now New Scholarship: UofL Federal Academic Alliance The University of Louisville is proud to now be a member of the Federal Academic Alliance and offer a 10% tuition scholarship to eligible federal employees nationwide. > Learn More With online bachelor’s, master’s and certificate programs across various industries and disciplines, you can achieve the education you need to stand out and accomplish your goals from wherever is most convenient to you. Our courses are taught by real, world-class university faculty who teach online and on campus, meaning you will get the UofL experience without ever stepping foot on campus. Your browser does not support the video tag. Our university is your university. No matter where you are. EXPERIENCE ONLINE PROGRAMS AT UOFL 100% ONLINE PROGRAMS With fully online courses and learning tools, you have the opportunity to earn the same UofL degrees as on-campus students—from wherever is most convenient to you. Learn More 50+ DEGREES & CERTIFICATES More programs are always coming online to help you meet your education goals and career aspirations. Use our program finder to determine the right program for you! Learn More 1 CARDINAL FAMILY Whether you earn your degree online or on-campus, you experience the same renowned and excellent UofL education, taught by real UofL faculty. Featured News SEE ALL NEWS ON OUR BLOG 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Youtube Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy