Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Student Financial Aid Office Navigation Home Financial Aid: Start to Finish Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Financial Aid: Start to FinishFinancial Aid: Start to Finish Dropdown Toggle Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Loans Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment LoansLoans Dropdown Toggle Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment Grants Work Study Scholarships and Other Resources Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments Scholarships and Other ResourcesScholarships and Other Resources Dropdown Toggle Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments State Aid KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change State AidState Aid Dropdown Toggle KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change Tuition Waivers Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Tuition WaiversTuition Waivers Dropdown Toggle Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Verification Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf VerificationVerification Dropdown Toggle Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Satisfactory Academic ProgressSatisfactory Academic Progress Dropdown Toggle Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Summer Financial Aid Competency Based Education—Healthcare Leadership Flex Option Program Consumer Information Net Price Calculator ED Net Price Calculator Net Price CalculatorNet Price Calculator Dropdown Toggle ED Net Price Calculator Other Information Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Other InformationOther Information Dropdown Toggle Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Financial Wellness Contact Us Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Contact UsContact Us Dropdown Toggle Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Reporting Office Hours and Directions Contact Us Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us The walk-in hours referenced below are not applicable due to the COVID-19 pandemic; however, the Student Financial Aid Office is fully operational and serving students primarily through email at finaid@louisville.edu and phone at 502-852-5511. Refer to the Financial Aid COVID-19 Q&A for additional information. The Student Financial Aid Office is located in the Houchens Building, Room 110, on the Belknap Campus. Visitor parking is accessible via the visitor pay-lot entrance of the Floyd Street Garage located at 2121 S Floyd Street, Louisville, KY 40208. Office Hours The Student Financial Aid Office provides walk-in counseling and call center service to current and prospective students on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday from 9:00 a.m. until 4:30 p.m. On Thursdays, the office and call center are open from 10:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m. The Student Financial Aid Office also provides a dedicated email service account for students. The Student Financial Aid Office must correspond with students via their university email account to provide detailed account information; therefore, it is recommended that students email the 'finaid' student service account from their university email address to allow the Student Financial Aid Office to respond in the most thorough manner possible. General Directions to the Belknap Campus Exits for the University of Louisville are directly off I-65 North and South If coming from I-265 (Gene Snyder) or I-264 (Watterson Expressway), proceed North on I-65 If coming from I-71 South or I-64 East or West, proceed south on I-65 Step-by-Step Directions to the Student Financial Aid Office From North of Louisville 1. Take I-65 South (Toward Nashville) to Exit 134 - Arthur St 2. Merge onto Arthur St 3. Turn right at the stop sign onto Brandeis Ave/Cardinal Blvd 4. At the roundabout, take the third exit onto Floyd St 5. At the first stoplight, turn right into the Student Activities Center (SAC) 6. On your left, you will see the visitor parking entrance to the garage 7. To get to the Student Financial Aid Office, proceed to the third floor of the parking garage 8. Take the pedestrian bridge over the railroad tracks in the center of the garage 9. The Houchens Building (yellow brick) will be on your left at the bottom of the stairs 10. Enter the Houchens Building and proceed across the lobby to the Student Financial Aid Office (Room 110) From South of Louisville 1. Take I-65 North (Toward Indianapolis) to Exit 133 - University Blvd 2. Turn left at the stoplight onto University Blvd 3. Continue through the next stoplight 4. Turn right onto Floyd St 5. Continue through the first light at the east entrance of the parking garage (this entrance is permit only) 6. At the second light, turn left into the Student Activities Center (SAC) 7. On your left, you will see the visitor parking entrance to the garage 8. To get to the Student Financial Aid Office, proceed to the third floor of the parking garage 9. Take the pedestrian bridge over the railroad tracks in the center of the garage 10. The Houchens Building (yellow brick) will be on your left at the bottom of the stairs 11. Enter the Houchens Building and proceed across the lobby to the Student Financial Aid Office (Room 110) © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville