No images? Click here June 7, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews SAC summer 2021 hours of operation through August 15 Monday 7:00 am – 8:00 pm Tuesday 7:00 am – 8:00 pm Wednesday 7:00 am – 8:00 pm Thursday 7:00 am – 8:00 pm Friday 7:00 am – 6:00 pm Saturday 10:00 am – 5:00 pm Sunday 10:00 am – 5:00 pm CLOSED July 5 SRC summer memberships Not going to be a student this summer but were this spring or are registered for the fall but want access to the SRC? Summer memberships are available now in the IM Office or Check In Counter. Cost is $50. Cash or check only at the check in counter. @ulsrc Personal trainers needed If you are certified in Personal Training and would like to work on campus at the SRC please contact Kat Halbleib. Summer Group Fitness classes Come join us for a fun, interactive HITT class at the SRC! These are classes are on Wednesdays at 6:15 in room 200! Any questions please contact Kat Halbleib. Martial Arts resume In the SRC Kempo Karate and Aikido will resume practice this week in the SRC. No experience or aptitude required, with professional instruction from experienced practitioners in a controlled, safe environment. Check our website for schedules and practice times. Q. I am a new parent. What resources for lactation does UofL have? A. The Women’s Center’s website lists several resources related to lactation, including a comprehensive list of lactation rooms available on the Belknap and HSC campuses. Visit https://louisville.edu/womenscenter/resources/lactation-information for more information. There is a University Alert System that will text you or email you when there is an emergency on campus. Go to: http://louisville.edu/alerts ALSO, there is a RAVE Guardian Safety App for your phone. You can instantly dial 911 or UofL Police, send a tip if you see a crime happening, or set a timer to alert your friends and police if you are late in arriving to a pre-determined destination. Go to: http://louisville.edu/cardsafety There is also a University Police Escort service from dusk to dawn and during daylight hours when documented safety concerns exist. https://louisville.edu/police/services CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe