Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ Programs & Degrees/ D.M.D. Program/ Advanced Standing for Internationally Trained Dentists Navigation D.M.D. Program Admissions Advising & Visits Tuition & Aid Early Admission to Dentistry (ULEAD) Program International Students Advanced Standing for Internationally Trained Dentists Transfer Students Computing Requirements FAQs Contact Advanced Standing for Internationally Trained Dentists Overview Admissions Contact FAQs Description of Placement Option The University of Louisville School of Dentistry offers an Advanced Standing admission option into the DMD program for selected individuals who have received a dental degree from an institution outside the United States or Canada. ULSD does not admit advanced standing students every year as the program is depending on space available in the D2 class. We do not reserve spaces for internationally trained dentists. NOTE: The application process for Spring 2023 will open through CAAPID on April 1. We anticipate having at least one space available but that may change at any time. CAAPID will be open regardless of space available. The deadline for all materials to be received through CAAPID is July 1. Details Length of Program: minimum of 28 months Apply through ADEA Centralized Application for Advanced Placement of International Dentists (CAAPID) at http://www.adea.org/CAAPIDapp/ Program Start Date: Spring 2023 (unknown number of spaces) Class Size: Available space determines number of positions (typically 0-3) Degree Awarded: D.M.D. Tuition: Same as ULSD traditional program, (available on Tuition & Aid tab) Requirements to Apply for the Advanced Placement Option through CAAPID Timeline The timeline for Spring 2023 admission is to be determined based on space available. English Language Proficiency Must be proficient in the English language Applicants whose native language is not English are required to take the TOEFL (preferred) or IELTS. This requirement may be waived if an applicant has completed 90 college credit hours or a masters degree in the United States. Applicants should indicate their qualifications for a waiver in the "Custom Questions" portion of the CAAPID application. ULSD Office of Admissions will send e-mail notification of waiver status. Please do not email materials to our office. Internet-based TOEFL (iBT) scores - preference given to scores at or above 100 total and 26 in speaking and listening OR IELTS - preference given to scores at or above 7.5 National Board Dental Examination Requirements Program requires passing of NBDE Part I and NBDE Part II (or INBDE) Submit Part I and Part II (or INBDE) National Board Dental Examination scores to CAAPID Application eligibility requires a minimum score of 75 on Part I or “pass” if no numerical score is issued Personal Statement Short essay describing why you desire to enter the DMD program Letters of Evaluation Two letters of evaluation required (one professional and one from the senior administrator or dean of applicant’s dental school), written within one year of the application- submit to only to CAAPID Transcripts and Evaluations Applicant must submit to CAAPID a detailed evaluation by Educational Credentials Evaluators, Inc. (ECE) Application Fee Pay $65 application fee to program online only AFTER requested to do so by program – do NOT send payments to ULSD. Special notes Applicants- please DO NOT submit original documents to ULSD. Only admitted students are required to submit original documents directly to ULSD. Contact Information Please direct your questions to our Advanced Standing email address. Address University of Louisville School of Dentistry Office of Student Affairs, Room 234 501 S. Preston St. Louisville, KY 40202 Phone: 502-852-5081 Fax: 502-852-1210 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Application Specifics Who is eligible to apply? Dentists who received a dental degree from an institution outside the United States and have passed Part I and Part II of the NBDE or INBDE may apply. How do I apply? The School will consider only applicants who have applied through the ADEA Centralized Application for Advanced Placement of International Dentists (CAAPID) at http://www.adea.org/CAAPIDapp/ Applicants must have submitted all documents required by the University of Louisville School of Dentistry (as listed in the CAAPID requirement section). What if materials are delayed due to COVID-19? Applicants are expected to submit materials by the deadline. We are constantly monitoring conditions and will update the website if changes are implemented. Is there a minimum English language proficiency requirement? TOEFL scores are required of all who speak English as a second language unless they have completed at least 90 college credit hours or a masters degree in the US. The admissions committee reserves the right to request a TOEFL from any candidate. Preference is given to those who score a total at or above 100 and 26 in speaking and listening. The IELTS is also accepted and a score at or above 7.5 is preferred. Where do I send supplemental documents? All application materials are submitted ONLY to CAAPID. ULSD does not accept additional documents from applicants. At the time of enrollment, accepted students may be required to submit official documents to us as requested. DMD Program Specifics How many students are accepted each year? The number of ASP students accepted each year is variable and depends on the number of available positions in the second year class of the traditional DMD program at ULSD. Typically this number ranges from 0-3. When do ASP students join the DMD program? Accepted ASP students begin studies in January of the year following the application cycle (i.e., if you apply in 2022 and are accepted, you begin classes in January, 2023). ASP students join the D2 class in the Spring term. Interview Specifics When are interviews? If we predict we will have space available, we will likely conduct interviews anytime between August-November but could be as late as December. School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville