Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ News News from the School of Dentistry Dr. Suzanne Barnes joins UofL oral and maxillofacial surgery department Childhood experiences led her to dentistry and to an empathic approach to patient care – especially for children with cleft lip and palate. Dr. Suzanne Barnes joins UofL oral and maxillofacial surgery department - Read More… School of Dentistry community honors the memory of beloved alumnus, faculty member and leader Wood E. Currens Dr. Currens received his DMD from ULSD in 1967 and then served the school for 44 years in various roles including faculty member, department chair, associate dean, and interim dean School of Dentistry community honors the memory of beloved alumnus, faculty member and leader Wood E. Currens - Read More… UofL expands its reach to Shelbyville, providing dental care for the underserved The new dental practice offers affordable dental care, and financial assistance may be available to those in need. UofL expands its reach to Shelbyville, providing dental care for the underserved - Read More… UofL chapter awarded GOLD status at American Dental Education Association 2022 Annual Session ULSD is one of only four dental schools in the United States to receive this honor. UofL chapter awarded GOLD status at American Dental Education Association 2022 Annual Session - Read More… University of Louisville School of Dentistry to benefit from Delta Dental of Kentucky’s philanthropic giving Delta Dental of Kentucky will provide oral health care services and education to hundreds across the Commonwealth through its contributions to UofL University of Louisville School of Dentistry to benefit from Delta Dental of Kentucky’s philanthropic giving - Read More… How one UofL dental alumna helped break the school’s gender mold in the 1970s Dr. P. Gay Baughman has made it her mission to help female students connect, support, and gain a sense of belonging - in part by launching a student chapter of the American Association of Women Dentists. How one UofL dental alumna helped break the school’s gender mold in the 1970s - Read More… UofL School of Dentistry continues to move up on NIH research funding rankings Research leader credits investment in faculty and collaboration across the university UofL School of Dentistry continues to move up on NIH research funding rankings - Read More… World-renowned dental materials researcher, instructor joins UofL School of Dentistry faculty Dr. Grace De Souza studies factors that impact the quality and longevity of materials used in dental restorations and prosthodontics World-renowned dental materials researcher, instructor joins UofL School of Dentistry faculty - Read More… UofL researchers reveal how oral bacteria suppress protection against viral growth Bacteria that cause periodontal disease reduce oral defense and increase viral growth. UofL researchers reveal how oral bacteria suppress protection against viral growth - Read More… “Dentistry is My Ministry” – Honoring Dr. Sherry Babbage Melisizwe, 2021 School of Dentistry Alumni Fellow In honor of her selection as the 2021 School of Dentistry Alumni Fellow, we interviewed Sherry Babbage Melisizwe, DMD ’81, about her path to dentistry, her passion for mentorship, and her selection as Alumni Fellow. “Dentistry is My Ministry” – Honoring Dr. Sherry Babbage Melisizwe, 2021 School of Dentistry Alumni Fellow - Read More… Delta Dental of Kentucky announces expanded commitment to ULSD patient care, clinic operations funds The announcement was made as part of University of Louisville's annual day of giving, Raise Some L. Delta Dental of Kentucky announces expanded commitment to ULSD patient care, clinic operations funds - Read More… UofL Dental students begin clinical experiences in Paducah The UofL dental clinic in on the campus of West Kentucky Community and Technical College. UofL Dental students begin clinical experiences in Paducah - Read More… Periodontics instructor HimaBinda Dukka awarded teaching and research fellowship This is the first time a UofL School of Dentistry faculty member has received the Nevins Fellowship. Periodontics instructor HimaBinda Dukka awarded teaching and research fellowship - Read More… Dental students, faculty preparing for two fall research events ULSD is co-sponsoring the first-ever American Association for Dental, Oral and Craniofacial Research Kentucky Section Fall Symposium. Dental students, faculty preparing for two fall research events - Read More… Future dentists and hygienists mark their entry into the profession at White Coat Ceremonies Two separate events were held to honor first-year and second-year students. Future dentists and hygienists mark their entry into the profession at White Coat Ceremonies - Read More… In Memory of Dr. Brian Alpert, World-Renowned Oral & Maxillofacial Surgeon and Much-Loved Mentor Alpert taught at the UofL School of Dentistry for nearly 50 years. In Memory of Dr. Brian Alpert, World-Renowned Oral & Maxillofacial Surgeon and Much-Loved Mentor - Read More… Dental Hygiene Legacy Symposium Returns September 18 Participants can receive up to 5 hours of continuing education. Dental Hygiene Legacy Symposium Returns September 18 - Read More… University of Louisville School of Dentistry to operate dental clinic on Home of the Innocents’ Campus Since 2011, Open Arms Children’s Health has cared for the dental needs of children across the Louisville community, particularly those for whom dental services are often difficult to access. University of Louisville School of Dentistry to operate dental clinic on Home of the Innocents’ Campus - Read More… ULSD researcher wins award to study topical Vitamin D Research being conducted at the School of Dentistry could lead to a treatment or a preventative therapy for periodontal disease. ULSD researcher wins award to study topical Vitamin D - Read More… Renovated space makes it easier for dental students to come together, study Renovated space makes it easier for dental students to come together, study - Read More… Next 20 items » 1234567 ... 10 School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville