[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Bachelor's Degree Programs / Online Bachelor of Business Administration /-/images/pages/bba/2010_BBA_1596x740.jpg Career-focused business education bba bba-program-page organic ../../programs/bachelors/bachelor-of-business-administration?tab=apply Tristan Boisseau Online Enrollment Counselor Online Bachelor of Business Administration UofL’s online Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA) delivers a broad business education that prepares graduates for a successful and rewarding career. The Bachelor of Business Administration online at the University of Louisville provides exposure to comprehensive business topics, helping you develop a strong foundation for a successful career within the business community. While gaining essential knowledge from our business core and business breadth courses, you’ll also have the opportunity to use elective hours to focus on an area that aligns with your career interests and/or goals from within or outside of the business school. The BBA online format allows you to experience the high-quality business education expected from the University of Louisville’s College of Business without ever physically coming to campus. This online program is offered by the AACSB-accredited College of Business at the University of Louisville Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Looking to start or advance your accounting career or become a CPA? Check out our online B.S. in Business Administration in Accountancy, a business degree specialized to prepare you for success in the accounting field and equip you with the educational credits you need to sit for the CPA exam. Highlights Gain expertise and universally-applicable knowledge in essential business administration and management areas including economics, marketing, accounting, finance, statistics, operations, leadership, and computer systems. Study data analytics and other tools currently used by business leaders and accounting professionals. Use elective hours to choose a minor that aligns with your career goals, either from within the business school (in an area like marketing or economics) or across UofL’s offerings (including but not limited to areas like communication, criminal justice, organizational leadership, or sport administration). Complete the program in 4 years, or faster with transferred credits from prior coursework. Learn from anywhere in the world with 100% online courses. Interact with other current and future business professionals in an online environment—growing your network and opportunities. Engage with world-class faculty, many with extensive backgrounds in business and research. Start or finish your bachelor’s degree online with our business administration program and create a clear path for career success. Whether this is your first step toward earning your bachelor’s or you have already completed some college-level coursework, UofL’s online business program is an ideal path. With our generalist business degree, you will have the opportunity to specialize your electives in an area of your choice, and gain the education you need to support and grow your career. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION What will I learn as a Bachelor of Business Administration student? Earning your bachelor’s degree in business administration will equip you with a breadth of knowledge across functional business areas and prepare you to grow or build a successful career in any industry. Specific expertise gained within the program will include: General business practices and research skills in areas such as leadership and management, statistics, marketing, economics, tax, and accounting Current essential business technologies Effective communication skills Critical thinking, decision making, and problem-solving skills Ethical issues related to a business workplace International business environments With the ability to choose your electives from across the university’s online offerings, within and outside the business school, you can also customize your degree to match your professional goals. What can I do with a Bachelor of Business Administration? Graduates with a degree in business administration are ready to launch or advance their career in a variety of business-related areas including general management, training and development, management/business analysis, sales, and more. Specific roles may include but are certainly not limited to: Accountants and auditors Administrative manager Advertising or marketing coordinator Customer relations manager Entrepreneur Financial manager or analyst Human resource specialists or manager Marketing manager Nonprofit manager Project manager Public relations specialist Sales manager Training and development specialist According to bls.gov, business occupations employment is projected to add around 476,200 new jobs between 2019 and 2029. The average annual wage for these occupations was $72,250 in May 2020. REQUEST INFORMATION Preferred Application Deadline Term Start August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May/June Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete online application Submit $25 application fee Send required materials (listed below) Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission in good standing requires: Good standing in the institution of last attendance, including eligibility to return to that institution Full disclosure of previous attendance in another school or college of UofL and/or any other post-secondary institution Transfer Students – less than 24 transferable credits from accredited institutions Must have a minimum 2.75 high school GPA and meet all new freshmen requirements for COB applicants. Required to submit: All previous official college transcripts Final high school transcript ACT composite of 23; ACT math sub-score of 21 Transfer Students – 24+ transferable credits from accredited institutions Must have a minimum 2.5 GPA based on all attempted college credit and completed the following courses with a letter grade of B-minus or better: MATH 111 College Algebra – QR (or equivalent) or completion of MATH 180 ACCT 201 and ACCT 202 (or equivalent) Either ECON 201 or ECON 202 (or equivalent) Required to submit all previous official college transcripts. Transfer Credit Students may transfer up to 60 hours from a community college and up to 90 hours from an accredited 4-year college. Transfer applicants must have a minimum college GPA of 2.5 to be admitted in good standing. Complete the credit transfer pre-evaluation to get an idea of how many credits you'll be able to transfer in toward your UofL bachelor's degree, and visit our General Transfer Student page for more details. Are you a KCTCS student? KCTCS students can transfer completed associate degrees in their entirety and begin immediately with online upper level coursework at UofL. Visit our KCTCS Transfers Page for more information. See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. The online business administration bachelor’s degree at UofL is a 120-credit hour program, comprised of general education credits, core business school courses, generalist business electives and selected electives in any area of your choosing within or outside of the business school – allowing you to shape your business bachelor’s to match your career goals or interests. You may use up to 6 credit hours from your additional electives credits to complete an optional internship or co-op in your local community. Course Title Hours Cardinal Core Courses 25 ACCT 201 Principles of Financial Accounting 3 ACCT 202 Principles of Managerial Accounting 3 BSTA 301 Business Statistics (or other statistics) 3 BUS 201 Career Development 1 BUS 301 Business Communication 3 BUS 310 Data Analytics for Business 3 CAMP 100 Campus Culture 1 CIS 205 Information Systems in Organizations 3 CLAW 301 Legal Environment of Business 3 ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics 3 ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3 FIN 302 Introduction to Finance 3 MATH 111 College Algebra 3 MKT 301 Principles of Marketing 3 MGMT 301 Management and Organizational Behavior 3 MGMT 320 Intro to Operations & Supply Chain Management 3 MGMT 441 Business Strategy & Policy 3 Select 1 of the following Ethics courses: PHIL 222 Contemporary Ethical Problems PHIL 225 Business Ethics PHIL 321 Ethics PHIL 323 Medical Ethics 3 Business Electives 15 Additional Electives (Optional co-op or internship) 30 Total Program Hours 120 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Can I take electives from outside the business school? Absolutely. One of the best parts of enrolling in UofL's BBA program is that you get an essential business-core education but can couple that with a non-business focus that aligns with your interests and goals. How long will it take me to complete my Bachelor of Business Administration degree? The typical completion time for the BBA is 4 years. This would be without taking courses over the summer and completing your degree at a full-time status. However, with transferred credits and summer courses, you could complete your degree in a shorter timeframe. Contact us today to see how quickly you can earn your degree! How will I know if my courses will transfer? Credit transfer checks are a standard part of the admission process, taking place after your application is submitted. However, if you want to get a feel for how many general education credits will transfer before applying, you can use the unofficial credit pre-evaluation tool offered by UofL to get started! Should I do an internship? Internships are optional in the BBA program; however, they provide a great opportunity to gain real workplace experience in a business field while earning your bachelor’s degree. They are also often highly valued by employers. Additionally, completing a year-long internship has been shown to have a high conversion rate into full-time employment. If I do the optional internship, how does that work? If you elect to take on an internship, you’re able to complete it in your local community, at a business that is close to you and makes sense for your career goals. If you’re working while going to school, the opportunity does need to be a new learning experience for you, but could still be within your current place of employment. For example, this could include leading a new project for your team or a team at your organization. You will have to have junior standing or higher in order to take an optional internship for credit toward your BBA degree. Are there specific class times for the online courses? No! All classes will be offered in an asynchronous format, in order to help you balance your education needs with all that life demands. This means you complete coursework and class requirements at the time that fits best with your schedule. What is the next step after completing the BBA? Graduates of the BBA program are equipped with the business expertise and skills to start their first job in a variety of business roles, pursue career advancement in their current workplace or continue on to an MBA program. There are a lot of business roles that don’t necessarily require applicants to have a specialization in a particular area of business (such as what is offered by the online BSBA in Accountancy), but still want someone equipped with the skills and expertise that a business generalist degree will deliver. Continuing on to an MBA program will further the business and management expertise gained during your time as a BBA student—preparing you for even greater career growth. Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link