[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Certificate: Artificial Intelligence in Medicine /-/images/pages/aim/2010_AIM_1596x740.jpg Innovate through AI-powered solutions aim aim-program-page organic ../../programs/certificate-programs/certificate-in-Certificate-artificial-intelligence-in-medicine?tab=apply Miriam Jones Online Enrollment Counselor Online Certificate: Artificial Intelligence in Medicine The online graduate certificate in Artificial Intelligence in Medicine is designed to prepare current and future medical professionals and engineers to master the analysis of biomedical data through advanced technologies. Enhance your ability to effectively analyze medical problems and interpret complex data with UofL’s online Artificial Intelligence in Medicine Certificate. The volume of biomedical and patient data is continuously increasing, the variety of diseases is broader than ever and standard methods of assessment are becoming insufficient. Through completion of this online certificate, you can acquire expertise in key areas of artificial intelligence—including computation, modeling and simulation, machine learning, big data and advanced statistical analysis—and their direct application to medical data management, medical imaging, disease progression modeling, experimental (clinical and laboratory) data and healthcare information. This highly-specialized expertise allows you to effectively analyze biomedical data, improve patient care and advance your career. This program is offered by the J.B. Speed School of Engineering at the University of Louisville, through the Bioengineering (BE) department, in conjunction with the Computer Science Engineering (CSE) department and the School of Public Health & Information Sciences. Overview Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid This certificate does not qualify for financial aid. Students only enrolled in the non-degree certificate programs are not eligible to receive federal aid. Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Other fees apply. Highlights Learn to use artificial intelligence technologies to improve patient care and find innovative solutions to medical challenges Gain the ability to analyze biomedical data through modeling and computational tools, such as machine learning and deep learning. Take 1-3 courses at a time and complete your certificate in just 2 semesters. Connect and network with other professionals across the biomedical industry. Take advantage of 100% online format with access to courses anywhere, anytime and on any device. Courses may also partially satisfy graduate degree requirements. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES No matter where you are in the world, advance your career with AI expertise from UofL. Learn More 5 COURSES The certificate program is made up of only 5 courses (15 credit hours). You can elect to take 1-3 courses at a time. Learn More 2 SEMESTERS Complete the program in as little as 2 semesters. Learn More "Biomedical data are now available in an overwhelming volume, and the potential benefits gained by using advanced technologies to manage and analyze these data are exponential. The primary goal of UofL’s AI in Medicine certificate is to prepare medical professionals and engineers to effectively use these technologies, and to improve patient care as a result." HERMANN FRIEBOES, PH.D. PROGRAM DIRECTOR ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IN MEDICINE Outcomes In the past decade, advancements in computing technology have converged with an exploding volume of biomedical data —calling for specialized experts who can turn this information into actionable plans for patient care. For example, the transition to collecting patient information from electronic medical records and the expansion of personal health data from connected medical devices (e.g., wearable monitors) require highly-specialized integration and analysis. Students and graduates of the AI in Medicine online certificate program are prepared to lead this charge and successfully: Identify, formulate, and solve complex biomedical engineering problems by applying advanced principles of engineering, science and mathematics Apply engineering designs to create advanced solutions that consider public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental and economic factors Develop and conduct appropriate and ethical testing using scientific methods to collect, analyze and interpret biomedical data, and to use engineering judgment to draw conclusions Graduates will have the required skills to seek employment for positions designing and managing the automated analysis of biomedical data with healthcare, insurance, pharmaceutical and laboratory employers. Preferred Application Deadline Term Start August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete online application Submit $40 application fee Submit transcripts from all previously attended accredited institutions* Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. Admission Requirements Bachelor's degree in any field from an accredited college or university* The successful applicant will typically have an undergraduate grade point average of 3.0 or above (on a 4.0 scale)** Completion of BE 340 (Computational Methodologies in Bioengineering) or equivalent programming training/experience, as well as ENG 205 (Differential Equations in Engineering) or PHST 563 (Math Tools III) or equivalent. Students whose native language is non-English or the degree is from a non-US accredited institution are required to prove proficiency in the English language as specified for admission by the Speed School of Engineering. GMAT/GRE scores are not required for admission. Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu Prerequisite courses may be required Due to this certificate consisting of a heavily engineering-focused curriculum, some students may need to take prerequisite courses in order to meet enrollment requirements, depending on previous education and/or work background. You will work closely with an advisor upon acceptance to the program to build out a path that prepares you to be successful in the program. Students lacking prerequisite courses may choose to take them at UofL or another institution before they are officially admitted to the program. * See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. ** You may be admitted provisionally with a 2.75 GPA, but will need to maintain a 3.0 for the courses taken to satisfy the 15-credit certificate requirement. The online Artificial Intelligence in Medicine Certificate consists of 5 courses (totaling 15 graduate credit hours), typically delivered over 15-week terms. You can choose from the following courses, with a minimum of 3 Bioengineering (BE) courses. The certificate can be completed 100% online, with additional course options (listed below) also available on-campus. Most courses are offered each semester. Depending on your education and/or work background, some courses may have prerequisites that must be met prior to enrollment. We recommend working with your enrollment and faculty advisors to map out your degree path and ensure that your chosen courses can be completed in the timeframe that is right for you. Online Certificate Course Options Hours BE 500 Computer Tools for Medical Image Analysis 3 BE 524 LabVIEW for Bioengineers 3 BE 530 Machine Learning in Medicine Using Python 3 BE 540 Machine Learning in Medicine 3 BE 542 Medical Image Computing 3 BE 640 Medical Image Analysis 3 CSE 545 Artificial Intelligence 3 CSE 590 Big Data Analytics Tools & Tec 3 CSE 590 Introduction to Deep Learning 3 CSE 590 Python & Data Analytics 3 PHST 620 Introduction to Statistical Computing 3 PHMS 641 Data Mining I 3 PHMS 642 Data Mining II 3 Total Credit Hours 15 Note: Some courses may include assignments and projects in collaboration with researchers at the School of Medicine. Online students are expected to participate in these collaborations via teleconferencing and sharing of data and results. You are also welcome to come to campus, if it this is a feasible option. Additional Courses Available On-Campus BE 685 Modeling of Biological Phenomena CSE 590 Introduction to Machine Learning CSE 632 Data Mining CSE 641 Medical Image Systems CSE 660 Introduction to Bioinformatics CSE 694 Current Topics in Bioinformatics CSE 694 Topics in Advanced Machine Learning Theory & Methods PHST 655 Statistical Methods for Bioinformatics PHST 681 Biostatistical Methods PHST 710 Advanced Statistical Computing Courses Note: Only one of either CSE 632 or PHMS 641 can count toward the certificate. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Featured Faculty Overview Admissions Courses TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link