Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Admissions Navigation Home #VisitTheVille Campus Visit for High School Students Diverse Student Visit Opportunities Campus Visit for Transfer/Adult Students Self-Guided, On-Campus Tour Meet Your Cardinal Guides Meet your Diversity Student Ambassadors Virtual Campus Tour Group Visits Campus Visit FAQS Directions to Campus AP Summer Institute What to Do Where to Stay Near Campus Pop-In Tours #VisitTheVille#VisitTheVille Dropdown Toggle Campus Visit for High School Students Diverse Student Visit Opportunities Campus Visit for Transfer/Adult Students Self-Guided, On-Campus Tour Meet Your Cardinal Guides Meet your Diversity Student Ambassadors Virtual Campus Tour Group Visits Campus Visit FAQS Directions to Campus AP Summer Institute What to Do Where to Stay Near Campus Pop-In Tours Apply Now University Honors Program I am a first-time freshman I am a transfer student I am an adult student I am a returning student I am a high school visitor I am a college visitor I am an international student I am a post-baccalaureate student I am a graduate student I am an online student I am a continuing studies student I am a certificate student I am a senior citizen Guaranteed Entrance Programs After You Apply/Check Your Status Apply NowApply Now Dropdown Toggle University Honors Program I am a first-time freshman I am a transfer student I am an adult student I am a returning student I am a high school visitor I am a college visitor I am an international student I am a post-baccalaureate student I am a graduate student I am an online student I am a continuing studies student I am a certificate student I am a senior citizen Guaranteed Entrance Programs After You Apply/Check Your Status Academics Cost & Aid Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Cost & AidCost & Aid Dropdown Toggle Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Admitted Students Diversity Woodford R. Porter Scholarship MLK Scholars Program DSAAs UCP Shadow Visit Program Admisiones en Español DiversityDiversity Dropdown Toggle Woodford R. Porter Scholarship MLK Scholars Program DSAAs UCP Shadow Visit Program Admisiones en Español Contact Us Admissions Directory Find Your Counselor Contact UsContact Us Dropdown Toggle Admissions Directory Find Your Counselor Office of Admissions FAQs Home #VisitTheVille Apply Now Academics Cost & Aid Admitted Students Diversity Contact Us Office of Admissions FAQs Home / Office of Admissions FAQs Office of Admissions FAQs Have a question about joining the Cardinal Family? You're not the only one! Here's a list of our most common inquiries from incoming students. Click on a specific topic below to go directly to that FAQs section or scroll all the way through. Applying to UofL Scholarships Admitted Students Residence and Campus Life Visiting Campus Transfer & Adult Students (links to Transfer FAQs) Applying to UofL When is the application deadline? The University of Louisville has a rolling admissions policy, so you will hear back from our office within a few weeks of completing your admissions application and submitting all required material. Apply now via the UofL Take Flight application or the Common App. The application for 2022-2023 will open on August 1, 2021. What do I need to apply? A complete application to UofL includes: Completed application for admission High school transcript ACT or SAT score (optional) $25 application fee (waived if you are on free-reduced lunch) What does it mean that ACT/SAT scores are "optional" for fall 2022? We're glad you asked! Students can choose to apply to UofL without ACT/SAT scores. View our FAQs. Can I send UofL my ACT/SAT scores after I apply? Yes! You can always ask your school counselor or ACT/Collegeboard to send scores to adetran@louisville.edu. If a admission decision has already been made on your application, you must contact your admissions counselor to request that your file be reviewed again. Do you superscore the ACT or SAT? No, we do not, but some programs (such as engineering, business and nursing) look at your highest math score from any test. It is always beneficial to submit all test scores. How do I send my transcript? There are a few ways first-time freshmen can submit a transcript to UofL. Your high school counselor can send via: Exchange websites such as Parchment or National Student Clearinghouse (preferred) Email to: adetran@louisville.edu (preferred) Postal services to: Office of Admissions, Dept. AO, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY 40292 We cannot accept any transcript directly from students. I applied, how long will it take to hear something? If you applied to UofL without test scores you should receive your admissions decision about four weeks after your application was complete. If you applied to UofL with test scores you should receive your admissions decision about two weeks after your application was complete. Not sure if your application is complete? Check your Application Gateway. How do I log into my Application Gateway? Visit thiswebsite and then enter the email address you used to apply for admission and your password. Don’t remember your password? There is also a link on that page if you need to reset your password. Students who apply via the Common App will receive an email to create an Application Gateway account after submitting the Common App. Is UofL part of the Common App? Yes! You can apply via the Common App or UofL’s Take Flight Application What do I need in order to be admitted to UofL? Please view our full admission requirements. If you are applying without test scores, please review our website dedicated to all things test optional. What is the Metropolitan College/UPS program? The University of Louisville has the most unique partnership in the country with UPS, and is the only school in the U.S. to offer the Metro College partnership. If you are interested in Metro College, you should first visit the Metro College website to ensure that you meet the requirements. We also strongly recommend talking with your admissions counselor about the program, as it works better for some individuals and academic majors than others. The Metro College website has more information about their application process, how they use FAFSA funds, and more specifics about the type of work done at their Worldport at their website. Scholarships What scholarship opportunities do you offer? UofL has a variety of scholarship opportunities, including a mix of automatic, admissions-based scholarships, and competitive, application-based scholarships. You can visit our website for the most up-to-date information about our available scholarships! Admissions-based scholarships The University of Louisville is committed to making scholarship opportunities available to all students. We will consider students with or without ACT/SAT scores. More emphasis will be placed on a student’s grades, high school curriculum and a student-involvement resume. We do strongly encourage students with qualifying test scores to submit those to automatically receive admission-based awards. As with any year, there are limited scholarship funds; we will do our best to maximize awarding. Contact your admission counselor for assistance and check your email from our office and our website for the most up-to-date information. All admission-based scholarships are renewable and awarded for 8 semesters. (Speed School of Engineering students in the 5-year program are awarded 9 for semesters.) For a full list of admissions-based scholarships, visit our scholarship website. Competitive and Mentored Scholarships The University of Louisville Offers a wide variety of competitive and mentored scholarships opportunities. These scholarships range in scope and scale, as well as in scholarship award amount. If you qualify to apply for a mentored scholarship, the application will appear in your New Cards Gateway. Most competitive and mentored scholarship applications are due by December 15. More information about all of these scholarships can be found on our scholarship website. Do you offer the opportunity to apply for other scholarships? We do have some departmental and alumni scholarships; you can check out the list and application requirements here. The Community Foundation of Louisville is also a good place to look for scholarships. Admitted Students What are my next steps? Am I forgetting anything? We’re glad you asked! You can ensure that you have all of your business taken care of with our First-time Freshman Guide and in your New Cards Gateway. If you have questions about any of these steps, or further questions about the admissions process, please call 502-852-6531, email admitme@louisville.edu or contact youradmissions counselor directly. How do I “commit” to the University of Louisville? All first-time freshmen are required to accept their offer of admission and pay a $100 enrollment deposit. This deposit is non-refundable and will be applied to your tuition for the semester that you intend to enroll. You will accept your offer and pay your enrollment deposit through your New Cards Gateway. If your application fee was waived, your enrollment deposit will automatically be adjusted to $25. Please visit the First-time Freshman Guide for more details. I deposited to attend UofL. When do I register for classes? You will register for your fall 2022 classes as part of New Cards Orientation. I want to take a summer class. What is my first step? If you were admitted for fall and plan to attend UofL this fall, just let us know via email to admitme@louisville.edu and we will update your start term for summer. Next you will need to contact your academic advising unit so you can be sure you are taking a course that fits your degree program and you are eligible to take. If you plan to attend another college/university and were admitted to UofL for fall, you must reapply as a College Visitor. In addition, we encourage you to reach out to the college/university you plan to attend to make sure the course(s) you are taking will meet their degree requirements. Once you reapply and have been admitted as a College Visitor, you will receive an email in 2-3 business days with information on how to register for your classes. I was admitted as “pre-____” what does that mean? If you have applied to certain competitive programs but do not meet the minimum criteria (GPA, ACT, or SAT) to begin in that program right away, you may start your time at UofL as pre-major. As a pre-program student, you will have the opportunity to take courses that prepare you for your intended major, and then apply to be part of that program later in your time at Louisville. If you are admitted pre-major, you can still submit new test scores and transcripts during the application process to become eligible for admission to the full major. How can I change my major? After February 20 of your senior year, when you register for orientation you will be asked to verify your major. At this point you can let us know if you want to change your major. If you would like to change your major prior to February 20, please call our office at 502.852.6531 or email us at admitme@louisville.edu and we will assist you. Can I double major? Yes, When you meet with your academic advisor at New Cards Orientation to discuss your academic goals and your class schedule, you can let them know you would like to double major, or consider a major and a minor. When will I receive my financial aid package? Our financial aid office sends financial aid offer letters in late November to students who have been admitted to UofL and filed their FAFSA in October. Financial Aid will continue to send out financial aid award letters throughout the fall and spring. Your first offer letter will be sent through the USPS, subsequent offer letters will go to your UofL email. If you opt in for texting when you apply, you will be notified when revisions are sent to your UofL email. I am getting a scholarship from my high school/community organization/church/parent’s employer. How do I let you know? Congratulations on receiving an outside scholarship! Please gohere to let our financial aid office know. I’m taking a gap year. What will my admission status and scholarship eligibility be when I return? Once your plans are finalized, and you know when you'd like to begin at the University of Louisville, email admitme@louisville.edu. Please include the following information: Name, Address, Phone, and Email address Semester you would like to begin. (i.e. Fall, 2023) Major Statement confirming you have not attended school anywhere in the past year *If you do earn college credit during your gap year, you will need to reapply as a Transfer student and if applicable, your scholarship is forfeited. However, you may apply for a Transfer Scholarship. In addition, please note if you have submitted your enrollment deposit for the upcoming school year, you will be required to pay the deposit again. If you have applied for Housing, please notify Housing of your plans by May 1 to avoid additional charges at 502.852.6636 or housing@louisville.edu. Residence and Campus Life How safe is campus? The city of Louisville was named the third safest city in America for families, and the University prides itself on being one of the safest institutions around. With a variety of safety measures including a fully-accredited campus police system, a smartphone app (Rave Guardian) specifically designed for UofL, the fully lit, 24/7 “L-Trail” that runs through campus, and the Cardinal Cab that allows students to be picked up and dropped off free of charge by campus police, UofL is a “safe” bet! Find out more about our campus safety measures. Can I bring my car to campus my first year? Absolutely! All students are able to bring cars if they would like, and parking pass costs are minimal. No car? No problem! The TARC Bus System is free for all students, and takes you everywhere you need to go across campus, downtown, and around Metro Louisville. Do I have to live on-campus? Campus Housing has a 2-year live on requirement for students who are not going to live at home with a parent or guardian. If you are from the Greater Louisville area you have the option to live on-campus or remain at home. You can find out more about on campus housing, or apply to live on campus here. If you do plan to live at home you will need to complete the Housing Exemption request, located in your New Cards Gateway. If I live on campus the summer after my freshmen year can I become a resident and pay in-state tuition going forward? No. Per Kentucky law, students who begin as out-of-state students will almost always stay out-of-state for tuition purposes during the length of their time at UofL. For more information about residency policies you can visit our website. When do I select my residence hall? The housing application will open on November 1 to all admitted new students. The priority deadline for Housing is February 1. After you have submitted your housing application they will reach out to you about the selection of your room. Remember, campus housing is guaranteed for all first-time freshmen. How can I find a roommate? While there is currently no University-sponsored way to find a roommate, many students join unofficial social media groups or use admissions events, like Admitted Student Day and Hometown Admitted Student Nights, to find their future roommates! You are not required to have a roommate preference, and many Cardinals have randomly-assigned roommates that become their best friends for life! Do I have to sign-up for a meal plan or what meal plan options do you offer? UofL will automatically assign your meal plan based on your housing accommodation. You can find out more information about our meal plans online. Do I have to pay to use the recreation center? The Student Recreation Center fee is included as part of your bill, so you will have access to it by showing your Cardinal Card (Student ID) during the school year. You must pay the Student Recreation Center fee, regardless of use. How expensive are tickets to the sporting events? With the Flight 23 plan, you can get access to every home sporting event for all 23 Division 1 athletic teams for just $10 a month ($100 a year over the course of the academic year)! Do you have Greek Life? The University of Louisville has 33 Greek organizations, including all Divine 9. In any given year, about 15-20% of UofL students participate in Greek organizations. Learn more about about Greek Life. Visiting and Exploring Campus For all in-person and virtual visit questions, please check out our visit page. We're here to help! If you have additional questions, please reach out to your personal Admissions Counselor. For COVID-19 related questions, please visit our webpage for admissions-related COVID-19 information or the University's webpage for other COVID-19-related information. Home #VisitTheVille Apply Now Academics Cost & Aid Admitted Students Diversity Contact Us Office of Admissions FAQs Office of ADMISSIONS, DEPT. ao University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Office Hours M-F 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. No holiday hours Phone tel 502.852.6531 fax 502.852.6526 Email admitme@louisville.edu Social Media Twitter Facebook Instagram © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville