Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Programs & Degrees Faculty & Staff Alumni & Visitors Future Students Undergraduate BSN Program - Louisville BSN Program - Owensboro RN-BSN Online Program ADN to RN-BSN Concurrent Enrollment High School Direct Admission Guaranteed Early Admission Accelerated Programs Second-Degree BSN Second-Degree MEPN Graduate PhD in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice Post Graduate APRN Certificate Master of Science in Nursing Financial Tuition and Fees Financial Aid and Scholarships Assistantships Student Advising Office of Student Services Technology Laptop requirement Current Students Current Students Information Student Affairs Advising Cardinal Confidence Program Counseling Services Family Scholar House Tuition and Fees Bursar's Office Financial Aid Financial Aid and Scholarships Assistantships Admissions Undergrad BSN Program Upper Division Technology Laptop requirement CNA CNA for Clinical Compliance Simulation Clinical Simulation Center Commencement and Graduation Registrar’s Office Programs & Degrees Program & Degree Curriculums BSN - Louisville BSN - Owensboro Second-Degree BSN Second-Degree MEPN RN-BSN Online Program PhD in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice Master of Science in Nursing Post Graduate APRN Certificate Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Information Academic Calendar Continuing Education Programs Employment Faculty & Staff Directory Human Resources Nursing IT Learn more about Living in Louisville School of Nursing News Sigma Theta Tau Intl UofL Bookstore Alumni & Visitors Alumni & Visitors Information University of Louisville Alumni Association SON Alumni Email Giving to the SON Research Office of Nursing Research Research Faculty Directory Faculty Research Interests Funded Research Publications Office of Research Services Research Services Staff Research Opportunities Upcoming Events Study Recruitment Patient Care Kentucky Racing Health Services Center UofL Care Partners Professional Resources Outreach Community Outreach Information Office of Community Engagement and Diversity Inclusion International Learning for Nursing Students UofL Office of Diversity and Inclusion Giving Home/ News/ UofL nursing graduate exemplifies award by giving it back UofL nursing graduate exemplifies award by giving it back March 16, 2022 Maggie Wilhoite knew in third grade she wanted to spend her life helping others. Inspired by those who cared for her grandmother with dementia and a cousin with cystic fibrosis, the Owensboro native became a nurse, graduating in December from the University of Louisville School of Nursing Owensboro program. At the senior awards ceremony prior to graduation, Wilhoite was surprised to find out she won the Vicki M. Stogsdill Award, which specifically honors program students for having “the courage to be a servant-leader.” Winners receive $5,000 and commit to working for one year at Owensboro Health. In keeping with the award, Wilhoite recently asked if she could return a portion of it for the benefit of other students. “I want this award to reflect all of us, not just me,” she said. Amy Higdon, assistant dean of Owensboro BSN Programs and assistant professor in the School of Nursing, said the award is named after Vicki M. Stogsdill, the retired chief nursing officer of Owensboro Health. “She always practiced servant-style leadership,” Higdon said. “The Owensboro faculty has the privilege of selecting the recipient of this award each semester and when considering which applicants embodied servant-style leadership, Maggie was a frontrunner.” Important components of the program are service learning projects throughout the Owensboro community and a senior project completed during the Global Public Health course. Wilhoite asked the $2,000 she returned be used to help with these projects. “Students can allocate the funds as they see fit, whether it be to enhance their project or donate to the community organization they collaborate with,” said Wilhoite, who grew up on an Owensboro farm. Wilhoite said she applied for the award “on a whim,” and was shocked when she won. “There are 14 members of my graduating cohort. Each of us brings something special to the table,” she said. “We survived nursing school during a historically adverse time in health care. We are entering the nursing profession during uncertain times. We have all exhibited resilience and compassion, which are necessary traits for nurses. Any one of us would be more than deserving of this award.” Because she graduated debt-free, she said, “I would not feel right accepting a servant-leadership award and keeping it all for myself if I am not struggling financially.” Wilhoite said she told her mother she wanted to become a nurse in the third grade and she hopes to someday be able to use her skills on a medical mission trip. She credits her supportive family with helping her earn her degree. “I want to be a part of something bigger than myself,” she said. UofLNews contributed to this story. View UofL News post. Tweet School of Nursing Health Sciences Campus, K-Wing 555 South Floyd Street Suite 3019 Louisville, KY 40202 Visit If planning a visit, view our visitor information. Contact View contact information. 1-877-81-NURSE 502-852-5825 Email M-F 8:00 am to 5:00 pm No Weekend or Holiday Hours About About the School Office of the Dean Accreditation Directory Employment KBN Program Benchmark Giving Giving to the SON Social Media Facebook Twitter YouTube The bachelor of science in nursing, master of science in nursing, doctor of nursing practice, and APRN certificate programs at University of Louisville are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award associate, bachelor, master, specialist, doctoral, and first-professional degrees (D.M.D., J.D., M.D.). UofL Accreditation © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville