Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Graduate School Navigation Home Future Students Apply for Admission Find Your Degree Program Application Directions International Applicants Funding Opportunities Recruitment Living in Louisville Orientation Future StudentsFuture Students Dropdown Toggle Apply for Admission Find Your Degree Program Application Directions International Applicants Funding Opportunities Recruitment Living in Louisville Orientation Current Students Graduate School Student Emergency Grant Fund Commencement Electronic Thesis/Dissertation Signature Pages Policies, Procedures and Forms Thesis/Dissertation Information Funding Opportunities Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTA) PLAN Professional Development Graduate Student Council Graduate Student Recognition Dissertation Completion Award Nomination Form MentorCenter Current StudentsCurrent Students Dropdown Toggle Graduate School Student Emergency Grant Fund Commencement Electronic Thesis/Dissertation Signature Pages Policies, Procedures and Forms Thesis/Dissertation Information Funding Opportunities Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTA) PLAN Professional Development Graduate Student Council Graduate Student Recognition Dissertation Completion Award Nomination Form MentorCenter Faculty & Staff Calendar for Awards Deadlines Directors of Graduate Studies Graduate Advising Funding Opportunities for Graduate Students Policies, Procedures and Forms PLAN Professional Development Faculty Awards Faculty & StaffFaculty & Staff Dropdown Toggle Calendar for Awards Deadlines Directors of Graduate Studies Graduate Advising Funding Opportunities for Graduate Students Policies, Procedures and Forms PLAN Professional Development Faculty Awards Diversity Graduate Diversity Scholars Diversity Programming MAGS The Advocate Newsletter Emergency Grant Fund for Graduate Students Graduate Dean's Diversity Supplement Form Faculty Women of Color in the Academy Conference DiversityDiversity Dropdown Toggle Graduate Diversity Scholars Diversity Programming MAGS The Advocate Newsletter Emergency Grant Fund for Graduate Students Graduate Dean's Diversity Supplement Form Faculty Women of Color in the Academy Conference Contact Us Home / Future Students / Application Directions Application Directions Application for Admission All candidates for admission to graduate programs must complete the online application form. Consult with your intended program for specific application deadlines. A new application must be received any time a student is beginning a graduate program, transferring graduate programs, changing from non-degree to degree-seeking status, or adding a dual or certificate program to an existing degree program. Note: The University of Louisville reserves the right to change programs of study, academic requirements, fees, schedules of courses, the announced academic calendar and deadlines without prior notice. Application Fee A non-refundable application fee is required with the application form. Your application will not be forwarded to the department until this fee is paid. Please note the following graduate application fee requirements: $65 All graduate applications $40 Graduate certificate programs $30 SOPHAS applicants for the MPH program ONLY (Public Health applicants who apply through this service). Applicants will call the School of Public Health for a code to use on the SOPHAS application. Note: Paying your online application with a check will delay the process by about 8 business days. Once the fee is submitted, it will not be refunded. Transcripts Applicants for admission to a degree program must submit an official transcript from each college attended. All University of Louisville transcripts will automatically be submitted with the completion of an application. Transcripts must be sent directly from the school to Graduate Admissions, in order to be considered official. Applications to non-degree or certificate programs need only submit an official transcript certifying at least a bachelor's degree. Test Scores Applicants for admission to most graduate degree programs must take the general section of the Graduate Record Examination (GRE). Consult with your intended program for specific test requirements. GRE Information can be obtained from www.ets.org/gre or 1-866-473-4373. Applicants applying as non-degree or visiting students are not required to submit test scores. English Proficiency All applicants for whom English is a second language must also submit official TOEFL scores of 79 or higher on the internet-based test, 213 or higher on the computer-based test, or 550 or higher on the paper-based test for verification of English proficiency. English proficiency can also be met by submitting official IELTS scores of at least 6.5 overall band score from the academic module exam or official Duolingo overall score of 105. Information concerning the TOEFL exam can be obtained from www.ets.org/toefl or 1-877-863-3546. Information concerning the IELTS exam can be obtained from www.ielts.org. Information concerning the Duolingo English Test can be obtained from englishtest.duolingo.com/applicants. Students holding a bachelor's or advanced degree from an accredited institution in the United States may be exempt from this requirement. Visiting Student Certification All visiting students must submit a Visiting Student Letter. The letter should verify that the student is in good standing in a graduate program, indicate the specific term for which the student has permission to enroll, list the approved courses to be taken, and be signed by the registrar or dean of the student's home school. It must be sent via regular mail; faxed or emailed copies will not be accepted. Other than the application and the application fee, the Visiting Student letter is the only credential required of visiting students. Recommendations Two letters of recommendation from persons familiar with the applicant's academic work are required. There are programs that require more than two letters of recommendation. Please check with your department for additional requirements. Applicants applying for non-degree or visitor status are not required to submit letters of recommendation. Letter of Recommendation may be completed electronically via the online application. Additional Requirements All credentials and/or communications submitted to the Graduate Admissions Office should contain the student's full name, Social Security Number or UofL-issued Student ID, and date of birth. Lack of this information may cause processing to be delayed. It is the applicant's responsibility to consult the appropriate catalog for additional requirements that may be made at the department level. General Information Please notify the Graduate Admissions Office if the address or name that you provided prior to enrollment changes. If you do not enroll, your academic credentials will be retained in the Graduate Admissions Office for two years, after which time they will be destroyed. Notification of Admission Decision: When you have submitted all credentials, your application will be reviewed by the intended academic department. The respective office and personnel will make a decision and you will be notified via mail and ULink. Note: Admission to the University of Louisville is for a specific level of study in a particular school. Admission for one level of study in a given subject does not mean that admission to a higher level, or to another subject, will follow. Admission as a non-degree, special, or conditional student does not imply that candidacy for a degree will result later. Residency Information The initial determination of residency status is made by the institution during the admission process and is based on information available in the admission records. The residency status of a student is determined according to the Residency Regulation 13 KAR 2:045, Determination of Residency Status for Admission and Tuition Assessment Purposes at state-supported institutions of higher education in the state of Kentucky. The domicile and residency of a dependent person, as defined in Section 6 of the Residency Regulation, is that of the parent(s). The domicile and residency of an independent person or an independent married person are determined by provisions set forth in the Residency Regulation. Detailed information regarding the residency guidelines and the appropriate forms for requesting a change of residence classification may be obtained from the Office of Enrollment Management's Residency website. Indiana Tuition Reciprocity: The University of Louisville participates in an Indiana Tuition Reciprocity Program for residents of Clark, Crawford, Floyd, Harrison, Washington or Scott Counties who have been admitted directly into an approved graduate program. Eligible participants are required to notify the Admissions Office prior to their first enrollment and the Registrar's Office after their first enrollment of any changes in enrollment status if they no longer live in one of the eligible counties, or are no longer in an eligible program. The University reserves the right to further investigate and require documentation of eligibility for tuition reciprocity. For Military Personnel: If you, your spouse or parent (if dependent) are currently stationed in Kentucky on military active duty for one or more years, please submit a copy of the military orders, a lease or deed showing your Kentucky address, and provide a copy of your military dependent identification card if appropriate. If you are a Kentucky resident inducted into the military from the state of Kentucky and have been recently discharged and returned to Kentucky within six months of the date of discharge, please attach a copy of your military discharge papers (DD-214), a copy of Legal Residence Certificate (DD-2058) verifying Kentucky as your home of record, and a copy of your lease or deed showing your Kentucky address. International Students on Immigrant/Permanent Resident Status: If you are currently on an immigrant/ permanent resident status, you will need to submit a copy of your immigration/permanent resident card, both sides, for review of possible residency classification for tuition purposes. ADDITIONAL DIRECTIONS FOR INTERNATIONAL APPLICANTS International applicants must follow these directions in addition to the general directions above. To study in the United States requires substantial preparation and careful advance planning. Students who are interested in attending the University of Louisville should read the requirements for admission and academic programs, in addition to the international requirements. Applications should be received by the Graduate Admissions Office well before the student wishes to begin studies. Please refer to the following application deadlines for processing of international student applications. Please note specific programs may set earlier deadlines than the ones listed. Consult with your program for additional information. Fall Semester Term (begins late August) - Deadline is May 1st Spring Semester Term (begins early January) - Deadline is November 1st Summer Term(s) (three short terms: May, June, July) - Deadline is April 1st Note: International applicants are usually not admitted as non-degree or special students due to visa restrictions Verification of Academic Records A complete academic record includes credentials that indicate all courses of study completed and degrees or certificates earned at the collegiate level. Secondary school records are not required of those applying for graduate study, but records of all credit earned since secondary school are required. Applicants who have attended institutions outside the United States may be required to submit their academic records to one of the organizations given below for a general evaluation. Educational Credentials Evaluators, Inc. (ECE) - www.ece.org or World Education Services, Inc. (WES) - www.wes.org Consult with the department/program where you are applying to determine whether you need to verify your academic records. Note: All academic credentials not in English must be accompanied with a notarized verbatim English translation in addition to official transcripts. Verified academic records must be sent to the following address: Graduate Admissions Office University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292, USA Financial Statement All international students must document proof of adequate financial resources to support their educational and living expenses for the duration of their studies in the U.S. ASSISTANTSHIP: If you receive an assistantship or fellowship from the University of Louisville that covers your cost of study, you do not need to submit any financial documents to the university. Note: Graduate applicants are eligible to apply directly to their major department for consideration for competitive teaching or research assistantships. FUNDING BY SELF: If you are funding your studies yourself, you must submit original bank statement(s) as proof of financial ability to study. This information must be received before you can be admitted to the University and receive an I-20 to apply for a visa. Note: The official bank letter or statement must verify that you or your family has the total necessary funds on deposit. The name of the account holder must appear on the document. Please indicate the relationship if the account holder is someone other than yourself. The total amount should be listed in US dollars or the exchange rate for the day of issuance. Notarized or official copies with a seal may be accepted. A bank statement is valid for one year from the date of issuance. US SPONSOR: If a US citizen or legal permanent resident will be your source of financial support, you must submit an original affidavit of support Form I-134 from the sponsor, specifying the amount and duration of the support and validity for attendance at the University of Louisville (the name and relationship of the sponsor to the student must be clear on the official letter). Note: The Affidavit of Support I-134 must be submitted with other necessary documents as specified in the instructions on the uscis.gov website. SCHOLARSHIP: Students on government scholarship must submit an official letter from their government indicating financial sponsorship. Note: Financial support from an agency or employer should be verified with an original letter from the sponsor stating the amount and duration of the scholarship and validity for attendance at the University of Louisville. Additional Directions Regarding Documentation of Financial Ability to Study in the US Students from countries whose government restricts the amount of money which may be sent abroad for their education must submit a letter of approval from the currency control authorities stating that they will be eligible for currency exchange if accepted. Health insurance will be required of all admitted international students on non-immigrant visas and should be accounted for in the documentation of financial ability to study at the University of Louisville. All students holding F-1 or J-1 non-immigrant visas must present proof of financial ability to the consular officer during the visa interview. They should also be able to present such proof to the university when demanded. The University reserves the right to require an advance deposit equal to two semester's tuition and fees as proof of sufficient financial resources. Notification of Admission Decision When all credentials have been submitted, applications will be reviewed by the departmental admissions committee. The respective office and personnel will make a decision and you will be notified. Please do not make arrangements for travel to the U.S. until you receive a written offer of admission from the University and approval of your I-20 or IAP-66 form. Admission to the University of Louisville is for a specific level of study in a particular school. Admission for one level of study in a given subject does not mean that admission to a higher level, or to another subject, will follow. Admission as a non-degree, special, or conditional student does not imply that candidacy for a degree will result later. Successful completion of the Intensive English as a Second Language (IESL) Program at the University of Louisville does not guarantee admission to an academic program unless such a written commitment has been made to you. When you have met all requirements, the International Student Coordinator will issue the Certificate of Eligibility (Form I-20 for Student or DS-2019 for Exchange Visitor). This certificate is necessary to obtain a U.S. visa. The form will verify your eligibility for admission as determined by your academic qualifications, level of English proficiency, and confirmation of financial support. You will need to pay the SEVIS fee prior to making a visa interview appointment. The estimated cost of one year's study will also be included. The certificate, along with a valid passport and proof of sufficient financial support for your studies, should be taken to the U.S. Consulate or Embassy in your home country at the time of your visa interview. Questions concerning the I-20 or DS2019 may be e-mailed to intcent@louisville.edu. You may address your inquiries regarding admissions to the Graduate Admissions Office, University of Louisville at gradadm@louisville.edu. If you are currently an F1/J1 student in the U.S Please obtain a Transfer in Recommendation Form from the International Center’s website. Send a copy of your current I-20 or DS2019, visa page, and I-94 card to the International Center, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY 40292. The form I-20 or DS2019 from UofL cannot be issued until the financial documents, Transfer in Recommendation Form; I-20, visa page, and I-94 card copies have been received. You will also need to contact your current international advisor and request to be transferred electronically in SEVIS. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACSCOC). For more information – www.louisville.edu/accreditation University of Louisville GRADUate SCHOOL 2211 S Brook St, Houchens Bldg, Rm 105 Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Office Hours M-F 9:00 am to 5:00 pm No holiday hours Phone Main (502)852-6495 Fax (502)852-3111 Email gradadm@louisville.edu Social Media Facebook Instagram YouTube Twitter © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville