Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Louis D. Brandeis School of Law Navigation Home About Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations Admissions How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Diversity & Inclusion Part-Time Schedule Viewbook Admissions FAQ Connect with Us Admitted Students AdmissionsAdmissions Dropdown Toggle How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Diversity & Inclusion Part-Time Schedule Viewbook Admissions FAQ Connect with Us Admitted Students Academics Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars AcademicsAcademics Dropdown Toggle Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars Careers Staff Policies Employment Statistics For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Greenebaum Public Service Program CareersCareers Dropdown Toggle Staff Policies Employment Statistics For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Greenebaum Public Service Program Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Areas of Expertise Staff Directory Faculty Speaker Series Faculty & StaffFaculty & Staff Dropdown Toggle Faculty Directory Areas of Expertise Staff Directory Faculty Speaker Series Alumni & Giving Alumni News Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Give to Brandeis Adjunct/Part-Time Faculty Statement of Interest Request a Transcript Alumni & GivingAlumni & Giving Dropdown Toggle Alumni News Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Give to Brandeis Adjunct/Part-Time Faculty Statement of Interest Request a Transcript Student Experiences Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Student Life Student Organizations and Publications International Opportunities Public Service Student Fellowships Brandeis Mentor Program Externships Student ExperiencesStudent Experiences Dropdown Toggle Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Student Life Student Organizations and Publications International Opportunities Public Service Student Fellowships Brandeis Mentor Program Externships Academics Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars Home / Academics / Experiential Learning Experiential Learning Brandeis School of Law offers a number of experiential learning opportunities to extend students' experience beyond the classroom. These hands-on opportunities include a clinic that allows students to represent clients directly during Domestic Violence and Interpersonal Protective Order hearings, divorce and housing cases. Another clinic offers students an opportunity to work with University of Louisville College of Business Entrepreneurship MBA students as they launch businesses and compete with other schools. Brandeis School of Law has a close relationship with the bench and bar in the City of Louisville, providing students with access to attorneys and judges. Externships provide opportunities to work with judges, represent clients, prepare and try cases and more. Additionally, students must earn credit for public service and skills classes or experiences. They have opportunities to participate on a variety of moot court teams or work with legal publications. They also have an increasing amount of study-abroad opportunities. All of these options provide Brandeis students with invaluable training beyond a textbook, honing their lawyering skills and preparing them for what's to come after graduation. Clinics The Brandeis School of Law offers three clinics for students to gain hands-on legal experiences—The Robert and Sue Ellen Ackerson Law Clinic, the Entrepreneurship Clinic and the Mediation Clinic. Robert and Sue Ellen Ackerson Law Clinic The Robert and Sue Ellen Ackerson Law Clinic represents clients in Emergency Protective Order hearings, divorce actions, and housing cases. While most of our clients are referred from the Legal Aid Society of Louisville, we accept referrals from other agencies. Since its beginning in the spring semester of the 2009-2010 academic year, more than 70 students have participated in the Clinic. The Clinic provides law students the opportunity to represent clients who are victims of domestic violence in Jefferson Family Court or clients who have forcible detainer (eviction) cases before Jefferson District Court. As such, the students are the primary contact with clients for all matters being handled by the Clinic. All student work is supervised by the Director of the Clinic and a staff attorney. To be eligible to participate in the clinic, students must have completed 60 credit hours. This is a requirement under Rules of the Supreme Court (SCR) 2.540 to receive a limited license to practice law. We do not charge for services performed through the Clinic. Our goals are to provide an educational experience for the students and to provide the community with an additional legal resource. Students take this class for one semester. If a matter requires assistance through the next semester, another student will be assigned to the client at the beginning of the semester. Brandeis School of Law's Ackerson Law Clinic is located in downtown Louisville. To make an appointment, call 502-852-6556. Entrepreneurship Law Clinic The Brandeis School of Law created the Entrepreneurship Law Clinic in 2012 to provide law students with an experiential learning opportunity by providing legal support primarily to the Entrepreneurship MBA program at UofL’s College of Business. The Entrepreneurship MBA students develop business ideas, form teams and compete in business plan competitions for seed funding. Client representation is fluid and depends upon the business ideas involved; however, the law clinic helps clients with things like articles of organization, operating agreements, opinions of counsel, independent contractor agreements and option agreements for technology. The clinic can and does provide assistance to other students throughout the university with entrepreneurial legal questions. The clinic is run like the corporate department of a law firm, with weekly firm meetings covering agreements, accounting, intellectual property, ethics, FDA approval and other topics. Students also receive support from law school faculty and a number of local firms and meet with MBA professors to get an understanding of their clients’ ideation process. Mediation Clinic In the fall of 2017, the Brandeis School of Law opened the Mediation Clinic. The clinic is open to 2Ls and 3Ls who have completed 40 hours of rigorous mediation training. Students come to the clinic as certified mediators ready to work with low-income pro se litigants who have been referred by Jefferson County Family Court judges. They mediate cases involving divorce, paternity, child custody and post-decree divorce problems. It is the only free mediation service in Louisville. Trager-Brandeis Elder Law Clinic The Trager-Brandeis Elder Law Clinic is designed to meet two important needs. The first is to provide students with a structured educational experience so that they may develop practical legal skills by taking their classroom training in substantive law, legal analysis, research and writing and putting it to use representing clients. The second is to provide much-needed legal advice to segments of our community that have limited access to legal representation. Externships Through the clinical externship program, upper-level students perform law-related work and gain practical experience under the supervision of faculty and members of the bar. Externships provide opportunities to work with judges, represent clients through Legal Aid, and the Center for Women and Families, prepare and try cases through criminal justice agencies such as the Public Defender’s office, or work on tax law issues with the local office of the Internal Revenue Service. Some specific examples include the Kentucky Innocence Project externship, judicial externships, legal aid externship, the Department of Advocacy externship and the Children's Law Center externship. Academics Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars News Honoring the 2022 Law Alumni Award winners May 02, 2022 2021-2022 SBA leaders offer perspectives on roles, future, goals Dec 13, 2021 Lars Smith named interim dean of Louisville Law Jul 29, 2021 Professor Jamie Abrams, School of Dentistry faculty, honored by Blackboard for innovative teaching Jul 20, 2021 The legal significance of Juneteenth Jun 17, 2021 More news… Louis D. Brandeis School of Law University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 Google Map Office Hours M-F, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. No holiday hours Contact tel +1-502-852-6358 fax +1-502-852-7299 Admissions: lawadmissions@louisville.edu General: brandeislaw@louisville.edu Quick Links Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Apply Now Give to Brandeis Law Clinic Intranet Symplicity Job Bank Social Media © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville