Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection RedMed Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection RedMed Plone Menu School of Medicine Homepage Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Facebook Academics About Us Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni & Visitors About Us View Our Mission & Goals Strategic Plan Office of the Dean Accreditation Academic Departments Affiliated Institutes Future Students View All Future Students Information Admissions: School of Medicine Financial Aid: School of Medicine Student Affairs Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Programs & Degrees Distinction Track Program Integrated Programs in Biomedical Sciences (IPIBS) eQuality Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Financial Aid Student Affairs Academic Technology Office Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Distinction Track Program Integrated Programs in Biomedical Sciences (IPIBS) Office of Community Engagement and Diversity Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Faculty Affairs SoM Marketing & Communications Academic Technology Office Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Academic Departments UofL Faculty Mentoring Program and Resources UofL Faculty Handbook UofL Emergency Management Residents & Fellows View All Residents & Fellows Information Residency Programs Fellowships Programs & Degrees School of Medicine Admissions Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Academic Technology Office Student Affairs Office of the Dean Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Contact us Alumni & Visitors View All Alumni & Visitors Information Giving to the School of Medicine School of Medicine News Releases Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Office of the Dean Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Fellowships Contact us Research Research Information School of Medicine News Releases Cancer Research Research at the Health Sciences Center Medical Education Research Unit Clinical Trials Open at UofL Clinical Trials Unit Research Laboratories Contact us Patient Care Patient Care Information Pediatric Medicine Cardiovascular Care Ear, Nose, and Throat Eye Care Specialists Family Medicine Geriatric Care Primary Care OBGYN Services Surgery Sports Medicine Find a Physician 502-588-6000 View all services Outreach Community Outreach Information Kentucky Area Health Education Centers (AHEC) SoM Office of Community Engagement and Diversity HSC Office of Diversity and Inclusion Kentucky Cancer Program Clubs and Organizations Free Clinics Depression Center Outreach & Education Giving Home/ Contact, Maps & Directions Contact, Maps & Directions Academic Departments See the comprehensive listing for our academic departments within the School of Medicine. UofL Physicians Health Care Outpatient Center 401 E. Chestnut St. Louisville, KY 40202 UofL Physicians - Patient Admissions Phone: 502-588-6000 contactus@ulp.org Medical School Admissions School of Medicine University of Louisville Abell Administration Center, Room 413 323 E. Chestnut St. Louisville, KY 40202 School of Medicine Academic Admissions Phone: 502-852-5193 medadm@louisville.edu Office of the Dean School of Medicine University of Louisville Abell Administration Center 323 E. Chestnut St. Louisville, KY 40202 Office of the Dean Phone: 502 852-1499 meddean@louisville.edu Main Location The School of Medicine is located on the campus of the University of Louisville Health Sciences Center, which is part of the Louisville Medical Center complex. Administrative offices are housed in the Abell Administration Center, 323 E. Chestnut St. Parking Visitor parking is available for a modest fee in the patient parking area of the Chestnut Street Parking Garage. The pay entrance is located on Chestnut Street after the Preston Street intersection and just past the breezeway. Directions From the North Take I-65 South to Exit 136C, Jefferson Street Downtown. Stay in the left lane of the ramp for Brook Street. At the end of the ramp, follow Brook St. one block to East Market and turn right. Go one block on Market to South Floyd Street and turn right again. Continue four blocks south on South Floyd Street to reach the middle of the HSC campus. From the East or West Take I-71 or I-64 to I-65 South. Follow the directions above. From the South Take I-65 North to Exit 136A, Broadway/Chestnut Street. This ramp exits onto South Brook Street. Continue on South Brook Street for two blocks. Turn right on East Chestnut Street and proceed past South Floyd Street. The Abell Administration Center is on the left, midway between South Floyd and South Preston streets. Tweet School of Medicine Abell Administration Building 323 East Chestnut Street Louisville, KY 40202 Office Hours M-F 8:00 am to 5:00 pm No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Medicine. Social Media Facebook Twitter Linkedin © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville