[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Distilled Spirits Business Certificate /-/images/pages/dsb/2010_DSB_1596x740.jpg Top-shelf business expertise. dsb dsb-program-page organic ../../programs/certificate-programs/distilled-spirits-business-certificate?tab=apply Veronica Johnson Online Enrollment Counselor Online Distilled Spirits Business Certificate The online Distilled Spirits Business Certificate is designed for current or future distilled spirits professionals who want to gain broad-based knowledge about business operations within the industry. Offered by the College of Business, the online UofL Distilled Spirits Business Certificate* blends an industry born of tradition with a university that fosters innovation. Louisville and the surrounding region are home to many of the most storied companies and most innovative start-ups in the U.S. distilled spirits industry. There is no better place to learn the business of the distilled spirits industry than from a university located in its epicenter. Developed in partnership with industry experts, we offer a one-of-a-kind curriculum that features the most relevant knowledge, skills, and awareness for accelerating your success in the booming distilled spirits industry. The program is co-taught by College of Business faculty and industry leaders from renowned companies like Brown-Forman, Jack Daniels, and more. *Bachelor’s degree required College of Business Graduate Programs Webinar Date: Most Fridays | Time: 12 PM ET See all upcoming sessions and register now! Overview Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid This certificate does not qualify for financial aid. Special rates are available for active-duty military. Inquire to learn more. Does your employer offer tuition reimbursement? Download a sample email template as a starting point for making a request. Sample Tuition Request Message [PDF] Highlights Learn how different functions such as finance, marketing, and operations work interdependently. Get an insider's view of the industry from guest speakers and corporate fellows embedded in every course. Connect and network with other professionals across the industry. Learn at the speed of your life—100% online format gives you access anywhere, anytime, and on any device. Get a jump start on your MBA—credits earned in the certificate program apply to completion of your UofL MBA, offered online and on-campus (you must apply separately to the MBA). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES No matter where you are in the world, learn from the masters of the U.S. distilled spirits industry. Learn More 6 PROGRAM COURSES The certificate program is made up of only 6 courses (9 credit hours). Learn More 5 WEEK TERMS Each course is completed in just 5 weeks. Take 1 or 2 courses at a time. Outcomes The distilled spirits industry has been rapidly growing for more than a decade. In Kentucky alone, the industry is responsible annually for $8.5 billion of economic output, between 15,000 and 17,500 jobs, and $800 million in payroll (Kelly, Kornstein, & Marshall, 2017). Based on previous education and professional experience, graduates would be well suited for any number of professional positions in business operations, including logistics planner, pricing analyst, data analyst, supply chain manager, marketing specialist, social media manager, promotion specialist, sales manager, distribution coordinator, corporate social responsibility manager, visitor center manager, financial operations accountant, tax accountant, brand ambassador, and more. Application Deadline Term Start Date June 21 Summer II July 5 August 7 Fall I August 22 September 12 Fall II September 26 October 17 Fall III October 31 November 24 Fall IV December 8 Admission Requirements For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. To enroll in the online Distilled Spirits Business Certificate offered by the College of Business at the University of Louisville, you must apply as a graduate non-degree seeking student and meet the following requirements: Completed online application $40 application fee Bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university* Official transcript(s) certifying the undergraduate degree Minimum cumulative undergraduate GPA of 2.0 (on a 4.0 scale) Note: GMAT/GRE scores are not required for admission. Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu * See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION The online Distilled Spirits Business Certificate consists of 6 courses (9 hours), delivered in 5-week terms. Courses are offered each fall and spring semester. Courses do not follow a specific sequence, and can be taken in any order. Course List Hours SPIR 610 Distilled Spirits Industry Overview & Regulatory Issues 1.5 SPIR 620 Distilled Spirits Finance Fundamentals 1.5 SPIR 630 Distilled Spirits Operations & Supply Chain 1.5 SPIR 640 Sustainability in the Distilled Spirits Industry 1.5 SPIR 650 Spirit Brand Marketing 1.5 SPIR 660 Three-Tier System of Alcohol Distribution 1.5 TOTAL CREDIT HOURS 9 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions FEATURED FACULTY FEATURED CORPORATE FELLOWS Overview Admissions Courses TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link