[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Graduate Certificate in Transportation Engineering /-/images/pages/gctrans/2010_GC-TRAN_1596x740-copy.jpg Engineer a roadway to greater success. cce-trans cce-trans-program-page organic ../../programs/certificate-programs/transportation-engineering?tab=apply Miriam Jones Online Enrollment Counselor Online Graduate Certificate in Transportation Engineering The online Graduate Certificate in Transportation Engineering is designed for professionals with a bachelor’s in civil engineering who want to gain superior proficiencies in the field of transportation engineering. Offered by the J.B. Speed School at the University of Louisville, this program delivers advanced technical knowledge in transportation engineering areas such as highway design, traffic engineering and transportation systems. Taught by expert faculty, this is an excellent opportunity to expand your professional credentials and increase the breadth of your expertise with less time commitment than earning a master’s degree. Overview Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid This certificate qualifies for financial aid. Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Other fees apply. Highlights Earn a prestigious professional credential and increase your marketability. Learn from full-time faculty at J.B. Speed School of Engineering, who are experts in the transportation engineering field. Complete your certificate in just under a year of study. Skip the GRE – not required for admission into the certificate program. Apply any credits earned during your certificate program toward UofL’s online Master or Science in Civil Engineering (must apply and be admitted to the master’s program separately). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this certificate on your own time through fully online classes. Learn More 12 CREDIT HOURS Take only 4 courses to earn your TE certificate. Learn More 1 YEAR PROGRAM Earn a valuable industry-specific credential in less than a year! "This certificate makes it possible for you to gain the expertise and credentials needed to be an engineer leader in your organization" J.P. MOHSEN, PH.D. ASSOCIATE DEAN & PROFESSOR CIVIL & ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING Outcomes ASCE’s 2017 Infrastructure Report Card indicates that the U.S. needs to develop a more resilient and sustainable infrastructure, and civil engineers must lead the charge to accomplish this goal. Raising the grades on the U.S. infrastructure will require a skilled workforce able to seek and adopt a wide range of solutions. To that end, civil engineering careers are expected to grow by 11% through 2026 (BLS.gov). With practical training and formal education in the area of transportation engineering, civil engineers can stand out in the marketplace and find employment in fields related to transportation, public works, traffic engineering, traffic design, modeling, arterials, urban transportations, and many other areas. Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete graduate application Submit $40 non-refundable application free Submit official transcripts certifying the undergraduate degree from an accredited institution* Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree in civil engineering Minimum GPA of 2.75 Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. International Students – Additional Notes/Requirements Bachelor's degrees earned internationally must be assessed to ensure that entrance requirements are met. If you live outside of the United States and intend to complete an online academic program from your home country, be sure to view special requirements for international students. A minimum total TOEFL score of 80 or an overall IELTS minimum score of 6.5 or Duolingo English Test minimum score of 105 for all foreign students from counties in which English is not the native language. International students will not be issued a U.S. visa if admitted to the online structural transportation certificate program, since there are no campus attendance requirements. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. Start Your Application The Transportation Engineering Certificate is comprised of 4 courses (3 required core courses and 1 elective) for a total of 12 credit hours. Core Options Course Hours CEE 562 Geometric Highway Design 3 CEE 560 Traffic Engineering 3 CEE 664 Fundamentals of Intelligent Transportation Systems 3 Total Required Hours 9 Elective Courses Course [choose 1] Hours CEE 660 Transportation Planning and Urban Development 3 CEE 661 Environmental Analysis of Transportation Systems 3 CEE 662 Airport Planning and Design 3 CEE 663 Advanced Traffic Operations 3 CEE 665 Pavement Design 3 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Explore course options in the master’s degree in civil engineering. Overview Admissions COURSES TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link