No images? Click here November 1, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews IMPORTANT INFORMATION Emergency procedures The University of Louisvlle strives to keep operations and business running smoothly. Natural and man-made emergencies can happen at any time and the University must be prepared to take action in the event of an emergency. The Department of Environmental Health and Safety, Police, and other supporting departments continually develop processes and procedures to respond to emergencies. louisville.edu/facilities/emergency-preparednes Proposed policy on verifying student identity A new university policy is being proposed on the identity verification of students enrolled in online courses. We would like to receive your feedback. The proposed policy will be open for your comments through November 8, 2021. Email your comments to policies@louisville.edu. louisville.edu/compliance/ico/policies/proposed-policies-open-for-comments ACADEMICS Ask MBA students: virtual info session Join Sirma Subasi (Full-Time MBA Student and Graduate Intern) and Devon Cowherd (Professional MBA Student and Recruiting Manager) for a discussion of the MBA programs offered by University of Louisville College of Business and their experiences as students in the programs. November 2, 6:30pm, Zoom. Register here. Healthcare Management Minor The Healthcare Management undergraduate minor provides student essential knowledge for participation in the healthcare sector of the economy with course content focused in healthcare systems, health policy, public health, finance, and ethics. catalog.louisville.edu/undergraduate/minors/healthcare-management/ EVENTS ASEZ "Cheer Up Campaign" November 1–3, at 11 a.m. – 1 p.m. in SAC W215, Ballroom. ASEZ is hosting a "Letter of Thanks" tabling for students to come out and write thank you letter to UofL professors for all of there hard work and effort during the Covid-19 pandemic. Housing Fair November 3, 11a.m. to 2 p.m., Outside Redbarn. Stop by to explore you housing options for Fall 2022. You can visit information table from Campus Housing and Affiliated Housing. There will be plenty of freebies and you can enjoy some warm chili. School Choice talk & free pizza on Wednesday Join us Wed, Nov 3 at 4:30 p.m. in the College of Business auditorium for educational freedom expert Corey DeAngelis, who will speak on "School Choice: Dispelling the Myths." This talk is presented by the Center for Free Enterprise. Pizza will be served following the event. events.louisville.edu/event/school_choice_dispelling_the_myths#.YXm-3Z7MKUk CARDConvos Join SGA, ELSB, DSAA, and the Diversity and Equity Center, on November 3, 6–8 p.m. in SAC Ballroom, for a TEDTalk inspired event inviting students to speak on how their identity has impacted their experience on campus and how revolutionary optimism can influence positive change within our university. To attend virtually, go to www.youtube.com/watch?v=_JDhImnDBDg The Cardinal Edge (TCE) panel discussion: The Value of Research Attend the first of our panel series on research taking place in Chao Auditorium on Thursday, Nov. 4 from 5:30–6:30 p.m. Hear from Drs. Danovitch (Psychology), Fuselier (Undergraduate Research Coordinator), Kolers (Philosophy), Buckley (PoliSci), and grad student Shamunil Shakib (Public Health). https://ir.library.louisville.edu/tce Game on, friends It's Game Night in the BAB, complete with trivia & memory games, yard games, old school games, and a paper airplane contest. Come as a team or solo - there's fun for everyone! Thurs., Nov. 4 from 7–8:30 p.m., BAB Lobby. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7184005 Family Friendly Event Miss University of Louisville Pageant Miss UofL pageant tickets ARE NOW ON SALE! Join us on November 7 at 4:00 p.m. in the SAC Multipurpose Room to cheer on our 16 amazing contestants vying for three crowns. For more information, visit www.missuoflpageant.com Family Friendly Event Four Roles of Social Change Often times when people talk about social justice, people are intimidated about how to get started and in what capacity they can get involved! Join the Muhammad Ali Institute and the LGBT Center for this event! *Free food provided. November 8 from 6 p.m.–8 p.m. in the SAC MPR. RSVP here or use the QR code. raiseRED KBC Blood Drive Help us support the Kentucky Blood Center by donating blood during our 2-day drive on November 10 & 11 from 10am-5pm in the Red Barn. Either schedule an appointment or walk- in to donate. Each donor will receive a a gift from the Kentucky Blood Center & $5 will be donated to raiseRED. my.kybloodcenter.org/donor/schedules/drive_schedule/78027 my.kybloodcenter.org/donor/schedules/drive_schedule/78026 Alternative Thanksgiving Join the LGBT Center as we dine on a hearty meal along with music and fellowship. RSVP via engage to secure your spot and we hope to see you there. Monday, November 22 at 6:00 p.m. in the SAC MPR. AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS 2022 Cardinal Award This award is based on academic achievement, extra-curricular activities, and contributions to the University of Louisville and the Louisville community. Applicants must be an undergraduate Senior and have completed 90 credit hours. All applicants must have a minimum 3.0 GPA. Application Deadline November 14 at 11:55 p.m. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/submitter/form/start/511991 LEADERSHIP 2022 SOS Deadline Extended There's still time to apply for the 2022 Student Orientation Staff. Apply on Engage by November 2 at 11:59 pm. Visit uofl.me/sosers or contact ariel.moore@louisville.edu for more info. WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS Men's Basketball Exhibition Game Louisville Men’s Basketball team hosts West Georgia for an exhibition game this Wednesday at 7 p.m. $15 student tickets are now available while supplies last. uofl.me/mbbstudenttix Family Friendly Event Mindfulness Meditation Club Meeting Give yourself a moment of self care & mindfulness by joining us on November 4 from 5:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. We will be meeting in SAC W309K, or you can attend virtually by clicking on Microsoft Teams or using the QR code. Women's Basketball Exhibition Game It’s officially basketball season at the KFC Yum! Center, and the Louisville Women’s Basketball team hosts Union for an exhibition game this Thursday at 7 p.m. Admission is free for all students. gocards.com/calendar Family Friendly Event Ice Hockey Club hosts Indiana Saturday The Ice Hockey Club will face Indiana University this Saturday evening at Iceland Arena. First puck drops at 7:00 p.m. Saturday. Tickets are $7.00 with student ID at the door. Come early, dress warm, and pack the stands as the IceCards take on the Hoosiers. Family Friendly Event Football at Cardinal Stadium this weekend The Cards face off against Clemson at Cardinal Stadium this Saturday, November 6 in another ACC showdown in The Ville. Get your discounted $15 student tickets now. uofl.me/fbstudenttix Family Friendly Event Max Night at the SRC Our fall Max Nights will be on November 9 and 10. Come out and test your limit on the squat, bench press, and deadlift. Winners of each weight class will receive a cool prize and bragging rights. louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness Sign up for Swim Meet and Bowling Singles The deadline to sign up for both the Intramural Swim Meet and Bowling Singles is Nov. 10 at 4:30 p.m. Make sure to login to IMLeagues.com/louisville to register. EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES Air Force Research Laboratory summer positions The Air Force Research Laboratory (AFRL) is currently taking applications for full-time (starting in the summer) and summer positions. These positions are centered around human performance, computer science, engineering, and intelligence/data science and will be located in Dayton, OH or San Antonio, TX. Hirees will be government civilians. For more information go to: jobs.lever.co/NSIN/91cdf0a8-9a2b-42cd-9476-05a6db5a2582 Paid internship opportunity NSIN X-Force Fellows program is a project-based paid internship. Students will be partnered with other students across the country to work on national security problems for the Department of Defense’s Under Secretary of Research and Engineering. Students will work from their home base with some potential travel to meet with military leadership. The Fellows program is highly competitive; however, the University of Louisville will be allocated up to six positions based on those who apply. No specific discipline (e.g., engineering) is required, and the program is open to both undergrad and graduate students. Students can apply here: www.nsin.mil/x-force/ ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I am having an issue with a faculty member. What should I do? A. The first step if you have an issue with a faculty member is to speak with the professor. If your concerns are not addressed, the next step is to speak with the appropriate Department Chair. If you do not know who that is, you can contact the Dean of Student’s Office at (502) 852-5787 or dos@louisville.edu for assistance. Ultimately, if speaking with the Department Chair is unsuccessful, you may consider filing an academic grievance. For more info, visit louisville.edu/dos/help/studentgrievance. DID YOU KNOW? Is stress getting to you? There is a Counseling Center on the Belknap campus. Make an appointment: louisville.edu/counseling Also, if you have ADHD, a learning disability, or a physical disability, there is a wealth of information to help you here. Go to: louisville.edu/disability/current-students CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe