louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone CEHD Faculty/Staff DirectoryGive to the CEHDLike us on Facebook!SearchNavigation Future Students Admissions College of Education Admissions Undergraduate Advising and Student Development Graduate Student Success Office Dual Credit University Admissions Registrar's Office Testing Information Academics Programs & Degrees Teacher Certification Academic Advising MAT Information Request Academic Departments Degree Information Sessions Accreditation NSA Cybersecurity Workforce SKILLS Collaborative Financial Aid CEHD Financial Aid Graduate Assistantships University Financial Aid College Life Visit the CEHD Student Organizations Early Learning Campus Visit the University CEHD Diversity, Equity and Inclusion View all Future Students links Current Students Academics Programs & Degrees CEHD Undergraduate Advising Graduate Student Success Office CEHD Academic Forms Academic Departments Fort Knox Programs International Learning NSA Cybersecurity Workforce SKILLS Collaborative Teacher Prep Teacher Certification Programs MAT Information Request Field Placement Multicultural Teacher Recruitment Project Resources Educator Preparation Data Testing Information Undergraduate Advising and Student Development LiveText CEHD Faculty/Staff Directory University Libraries CEHD Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Financial Aid CEHD Financial Aid Graduate Assistantships University Financial Aid View all Current Students links Faculty & Staff CEHD Resources Faculty/Staff Directory CEHD Academic Forms Office and Center Addresses Departments Centers Accreditation GA Resources Graduate Student Success Office CEHD Committees CEHD News Office of Research CEHD Employee Resources CAEP Exhibit Room AAUE CEHD Diversity, Equity and Inclusion CEHD Staff Association Faculty Senate Staff Senate Kbox Dean's Office Educator Preparation Data View all Faculty & Staff links Alumni & Friends Giving University Advancement Why giving matters Ways to give Alumni UofL Alumni Association University Club Career Center CEHD Alumni Council Campus Life Gheens Science Hall and Rauch Planetarium UofL Athletics The College What we do CEHD News Facebook Dean's Office CEHD Faculty/Staff Directory View all Alumni & Friends links Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Early Learning Campus Navigation Early Learning Campus About the Early Learning Campus Virtual Tour Navigation Early Learning Campus About the Early Learning Campus Virtual Tour Tiny Tadpoles Tiny Tadpoles Turtles Turtles Explorers Explorers Travelers Travelers Travelers Dreamers Dreamers Jazzy Jungle Jazzy Jungle Jazzy Jungle Colorful Caterpillars Colorful Caterpillars Colorful Caterpillars Nursing Nook‹› What is the ELC? The Early Learning Campus (ELC) is part of the Gladys and Lewis "Sonny" Bass Louisville Scholar House Campus and is an exemplary early child development center for children of UofL faculty, staff and students, and residents of the Louisville Scholar House. The facility is accredited by the National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC) and offers full day curriculum for children aged six weeks to prekindergarten. The ELC is located at the corner of 5th and Bloom Streets, (behind or just north of Betty Johnson Hall on UofL's Belknap Campus). Hours of operation are 7:30 AM - 5:30 PM, close at 5 PM on 3rd Thursdays. The ELC Family Handbook is a detailed overview about the facility, its programs, application information and much more. ELC 2021-2022 Calendar ELC Virtual Tour Due to COVID-19 precautions, in-person facility tours have been suspended. We understand that you would like to see our classrooms and so have created virtual tours for your convenience. Tour scripts are also included to assist you. ELC Virtual Tour Contact Us Dr. Jill Jacobi-Vessels, Director of the ELC University of Louisville Early Learning Campus 409 Reg Smith Circle Louisville, KY 40208 ELC Main Office: 502-852-3521 FAX: 502-852-4391 Donate to the ELC! Parent Quote about ELC "We consider ELC a life-changer for our family. It is a daily challenge to balance a professional career and a family's well-being. No matter how organized and energetic the parent(s), there are always obstacles for which you find yourself unprepared. Being able to leave your child(ren) in capable, caring hands is a necessity. At the Early Learning Campus, I have no doubt about the care provided for my children, and in fact, I leave them confidently, knowing they have a day of learning, fun, kindness, and healthful meals ahead of them. We know that not every childcare facility offers such a positive environment, and our whole family is grateful for the quality of life offered by the ELC." Sarah Lindgren Application ProcessFacility Tours Currently, in-person facility tours have been suspended. We are only providing the virtual tour.Tuition Information List of all program costs.Waiting List/Enrollment Forms Waiting List Form [PDF] Waiting List Approx [DOC] Contact Paige Shank at paige.shank@louisville.edu or 502-852-3521 with questions about the waitlist. To apply, mail or drop off the application and application fee to: University of Louisville Attn: Dr. Jill Jacobi-Vessels, Director Early Learning Campus 409 Reg Smith Circle Louisville, KY 40208 Checks should be made payable to University of Louisville with ELC and your child's name written on the memo line. Accreditation The Early Learning Campus is accredited by the National Association for the Education of Young Children (NAEYC). For information on program accreditation click here. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville