[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Master's Degree Programs / Online Master of Science in Sport Administration /-/images/pages/msspad/2010_MSpAd_1596x740.jpg Expand your playbook. msspad msspad-program-page organic ../../programs/masters/master-of-science-in-sport-administration?tab=apply Miriam Jones Online Enrollment Counselor Online Master of Science in Sport Administration The online Master of Science in Sport Administration is designed to prepare sport professionals to become a stronger decision-maker and stay competitive within the sport industry. Offered by the College of Education and Human Development at the University of Louisville, the sport management online master’s program is designed to prepare you for leadership roles within a diverse and evolving field. Join a program that leverages the expertise of our faculty across all aspects of the curriculum in order to facilitate the development of your critical thinking and communication skills, making you a more effective sport administration professional. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Tuition and fees are subject to change at any time without prior notice. Highlights Enrich your understanding in areas important to sport business including management, leadership, research, communication, marketing, policy and law. Join a renowned sports management program, ranked #4 in the U.S. and #27 in the world by Eduniversal Masters Rankings, and #5 in the U.S. by Sports Management Degree Guide Top Programs. Learn from guest lecturers from leading sport business organizations. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes. Earn your master’s degree in as little as 2 years. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this degree on your own time through fully online classes. Learn More 36 CREDIT HOURS Take only 12 courses (9 core courses and 3 electives) to complete your degree! Learn More 450+ NETWORK OF EMPLOYERS Connect with experts, get involved and make a difference in sport management. "Sport gives us the opportunity to come together, to share passions, to feel part of something bigger. The master's program is definitely geared toward individuals who already have experience in the workforce, but they're looking to elevate their skill sets. They take a deeper dive into the material that they're learning, and how to apply that in the organizations that they're currently working in." MEG HANCOCK, PH.D. SPORT ADMINISTRATION FACULTY What will I learn as a M.S. in Sport Administration student? The expertise you’ll develop as a student in the Sport Administration master’s program will enable you to become a capable leader and decision maker in sports business. You’ll develop a deeper understanding of management, finance, leadership, ethics, communication and marketing, as well as policy and law practiced within the field. Specific expertise gained from the program will include: A comprehensive understanding of financial and managerial accounting concepts that emphasize understanding annual reports, financial analysis ratios, as well as methods for increasing for revenue and cost control. Close examination of legal issues relevant to the field such as negligence, constitutional law, employment law, as well as intellectual property law and contract law. An overview of the skills needed to plan and conduct health and sport sciences research. What can I do with a M.S. in Sport Administration? Career opportunities are available to M.S. in Sport Administration graduates in fields such as: Athletic director Facility management Event management Sport marketing Athletic administration Corporate sponsorship The 2019-2029 occupational outlook for administrative services and facilities managers is expected to grow 6% nationwide, which is faster than the average national occupation growth rate and have a median annual salary of $98,890 (bls.gov). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Preferred Application Deadline Term Start June 1 Fall For in-state and out-of-state applicants who intend to begin in the Fall November 1 Spring For in-state and out-of-state applicants who intend to begin in the Spring February 1 Priority Deadline for Summer/Fall For in-state and out-of-state applicants who intend to begin in the Summer or Fall For applicants seeking placement in the Louisville Athletics Internship program upon starting their first semester April 1 Summer/Fall For in-state and out-of-state applicants who intend to begin in the Summer or Fall Applications received after these dates will be considered on a case-by-case basis, as spots are available. Admission to the program is competitive and applicants are encouraged to submit their applications as early as possible. Steps to Apply Complete the online graduate application (Choose program name "Sport Administration (MS) - ONLINE") Submit $65 non-refundable application fee Submit all post-secondary transcripts in English – have them sent directly to UofL Submit 2 letters of recommendation, written within the past 12 months, from individuals who can speak to the applicant's academic and/or professional capabilities and potential Submit statement of purpose (500 words or less) that explains why you want to be admitted into the program and what you plan to do with a Sport Administration degree Submit current resume or curriculum vitae Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution* For unconditional admission, students are required to have a cumulative undergraduate GPA of 3.0 or higher. Applicants with a GPA lower than 3.0 may obtain conditional admission. *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselors at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. The online Master of Science in Sport Administration is a 36 credit hour program that requires 27 credit hours in core courses and 9 credit hours in electives (as approved by advisor). Course Title Credit Hours Sport Administration Core Courses SPAD 604 Financial Principles of Sport 3 SPAD 625 Sport Management and Leadership 3 SPAD 635 Research in Sport Administration 3 SPAD 637 Sport Analytics 3 SPAD 645 Sport Communication Theory and Practice 3 SPAD 683 Sport Marketing 3 SPAD 684 Sport Policy 3 SPAD 689 Legal Aspects in the Sport Industry 3 SPAD 692 Internship in Sport Administration 3 Sport Administration Electives – 3 courses approved by advisor 9 Minimum Total Credits Required 36 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Featured Faculty Is the program accredited? The MS program is fully accredited through the Commission on Sport Management Accreditation (COSMA). Our program was the first in the country accredited at all three levels (undergraduate, master’s and doctoral). How many students are admitted to the program each year? Admission is quite competitive. We receive between 80 and 120 applications each year. We enroll 20-35 new students who are the most qualified each year. How are applications evaluated? The minimum guidelines for unconditional admission are an undergraduate GPA of 2.75 and a GRE score of 293. However, we review the entire application holistically and strongly consider the applicant's goals, recommendations, and related work experiences in addition to academic credentials. Do I need any specific undergraduate major to be admitted? Are there any prerequisites? We admit applicants from all undergraduate majors, with a few having undergraduate degrees in sport administration or sport management. You are not required to take any prerequisite courses before beginning the program. How long is the program? Most students can complete the program in 1.5 to 2 years. The length of the program typically depends on three factors: Academic pace – the number of classes taken. For an accelerated pace, you can take up to 12 hours per semester. Work schedule – whether you volunteer or work in the industry during the program. Internship choice – whether you complete the required internship while taking classes, during the summer, or at the end of the program. What classes are required? The completion of the program requires 36 credit hours (including 3 hours of internship) where 27 credit hours represent core courses (these 9 courses are required for all students). The remaining 9 credit hours represent the elective courses. We offer multiple electives each semester across a number of interest areas. In addition, classes in other departments may be taken as electives if approved by your academic advisor. This flexibility allows you to customize the program to meet your needs. When are the classes scheduled? All required courses are delivered online and offered during either fall or spring semesters. Additional courses may be offered during summer sessions. Can I transfer credits? Yes. You can transfer up to 6 graduate credits from an accredited university. See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. Is there an exit requirement for the program? Students must complete one of the following: written examination, research project, or thesis. Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link