No images? Click here July 26, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Get vaccinated now UofL encourages all Cardinals to be fully vaccinated before fall. It has never been easier to get a COVID-19 vaccine in our nation, and it only takes a few minutes. If you have not yet been vaccinated yet, try one of these convenient resources available right now to you: Text your zip code to 4-3-8-8-2-9 to get a text back with vaccine sites near you. Call the CDC’s COVID-19 Vaccination Hotline, 1-800-232-0233, to receive assistance with finding a vaccination location offering your preferred vaccine type. Visit vaccines.gov to find a location convenient to you. (Visit vacunas.gov for information in Spanish.) Take a selfie and join #LsUpSleevesUp Your voice and actions matter to get all Cardinals, Kentuckians and Americans vaccinated. Help our community rally together this summer by participating in our social media campaign, #LsUpSleevesUp. Here’s what you can do: Post a selfie on your social media page with the reason why you chose to get vaccinated. Include the hashtags #LsUpSleevesUp and #CovidCollegeChallenge in your post. Follow the university’s Facebook, Instagram, TikTok and Twitter channels to keep up with the campaign and to see some of our student, faculty and staff posts. Shot At A Million Team Kentucky’s Shot At A Million provides a great incentive to Kentuckians to get their shot of hope: a COVID-19 vaccine! Permanent residents of Kentucky are eligible even if they received the vaccine in a different state. To enter, you must have received at least the first dose of the Pfizer or Moderna COVID-19 vaccines or the one-dose Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine, and provide the location where you received your vaccination. Entry into the drawing must be completed at shotatamillion.ky.gov. More information at govstatus.egov.com/shot-at-a-million-home SRC basketball court schedule The basketball courts in the SRC will be closed Thursday, July 29 through Monday, August 2 while we host a large cheer and dance camp. We hope to have courts re-open the afternoon of August 2. Check @ulsrc on twitter for updates that day. Martial Arts in the SRC Kempo Karate and Aikido have resumed practicing in the SRC. No experience or aptitude required, with professional instruction from certified teachers in a controlled, safe environment. Check our website for schedules and practice times. Did you know we have an Indoor Soccer League? Every fall the Intramural Department host a 4-week indoor soccer league in the MAC Court at the SRC. If interested sign your team up on IMLeagues.com/louisville Q. I am experiencing a financial emergency. Are there any resources available to help me? A. To assist UofL students who encounter an unforeseen financial emergency or catastrophic event, the Student Emergency Fund was created. Our goal is to help students during a time of need stay in school and make progress towards a degree. These funds are not intended to be used for routine expenses or as a consistent supplement to a student’s educational funding sources. An event or unforeseeable circumstance must be the cause of the loss of funds to be eligible for student emergency funds. Students may apply when they have exhausted all other resources. Students, if awarded, are not required to repay the funding amount. To apply, visit https://louisville.edu/dos/help/studentemergencyfund. There is a special food pantry for UofL students, faculty and staff who are in need. The Commonwealth Credit Union Cardinal Cupboard is located in the SAC in room W314 and is open 5 days a week (Monday–Friday) from 9 a.m.–6 p.m. Summer hours are by appointment only. To make an appointment, go to https://louisville.edu/involvement/leadership/engage-lead-serve-board/cardinalcupboard CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe