Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ News/ University of Louisville School of Dentistry to benefit from Delta Dental of Kentucky’s philanthropic giving University of Louisville School of Dentistry to benefit from Delta Dental of Kentucky’s philanthropic giving Delta Dental of Kentucky will provide oral health care services and education to hundreds across the Commonwealth through its contributions to UofL The oral health care crisis in Kentucky continues as fewer and fewer Kentuckians have access to quality, preventive dental care and treatments. The problem is compacted by an increasing number of individuals who need care, coupled with a decreasing number of providers across the state. Delta Dental® recognizes this issue, and through its charitable arm, the Delta Dental of Kentucky Foundation, has committed to providing funding to the University of Louisville School of Dentistry and other educational institutions and nonprofits across the state. These funds will directly benefit programs that serve underserved populations throughout the Commonwealth. “Building a network of strong community partners like UofL is a priority for the Delta Dental of Kentucky Foundation,” Delta Dental of Kentucky CEO Jude Thompson said. “Through this network and others, we are able to provide more services to at-risk, underserved and uninsured individuals within every county of our great state.” The grant to the UofL School of Dentistry will provide an array of services and education opportunities for dental students and their surrounding communities. UofL School of Dentistry The Delta Dental of Kentucky Foundation’s contribution to the UofL School of Dentistry provides funding to support both capital projects and patient care programs. To date, the Foundation has provided more than $400,000 dollars to support initiatives of this kind. Dental faculty and students will take part in Delta Dental’s Mobile Dental Unit which provides services on wheels to underserved communities throughout the state. These faculty and students will staff at least six dental clinics throughout 2022 which are aimed at serving more than 15 patients each day. Additionally, Delta Dental’s multi-year gift will support UofL’s services schedule with the Home of the Innocents practice, Kosair Charities Center clinic, Brown Cancer Center dental oncology practice, Shelbyville UofL Dental practice and Paducah UofL Dental practice to provide much-needed services to patients who are in dire need of treatment and reconstructive oral health care. In Shelbyville and Paducah, the gift helps fund clinics that will provide a full range of general dentistry services to people who have not had access to affordable care and are unable to travel to Louisville for such care. “The multi-year partnership with Delta Dental will touch the lives of so many Kentuckians who otherwise might not have access to affordable, high-quality dental care,” Interim Dean of the UofL School of Dentistry Dr. Margaret Hill said. “From Paducah to Shelbyville to Louisville and in between, we are committed to doing the most we can to train, educate and serve both our students and our communities about the importance of oral health. Delta Dental’s support allows us to do just that.” In addition to support of the UofL School of Dentistry, the Delta Dental of Kentucky Foundation provides grants and funding to hundreds of other Kentucky-based 501c3 non-profit organizations. Since 2015, more than $20 million has been donated, which reaffirms the Foundation’s commitment to support programs and services that improve the oral health and quality of life for citizens across the Commonwealth. To learn more about Delta Dental of Kentucky and the Delta Dental of Kentucky Foundation, please visit KY.deltadental.com or follow us on Instagram, Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter. About Delta Dental® of Kentucky: Delta Dental of Kentucky is committed to bright smiles and healthy lifestyles for its 700,000 enrollees and the communities we serve. Delta Dental of Kentucky is part of a family of companies that collectively are among the largest, most experienced dental plan administrators in the nation. Our network of providers gives our customers access to high-quality, affordable dental care. Additionally, DeltaVision provides the largest network of vision providers with more than 5,000 retail chain locations nationwide, providing vision plans with extensive benefits that combine two best-in-class carriers. Together, Delta Dental of Kentucky and DeltaVision work to streamline benefit administration for current and future clients. Delta Dental of Kentucky’s Foundation promises to serve our communities and residents one smile at a time. Aimed with the task of promoting oral health to the citizens of Kentucky, the philanthropic corporate giving supports many non-profit partners. Giving back is a core component of our culture at Delta Dental, and our Foundation enables this support to be given to organizations that champion a better quality of life for citizens throughout our Commonwealth. Source: Delta Dental of Kentucky March 16, 2022 School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville