No images? Click here January 5, 2022 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Image by Юлия Гапеенко IMPORTANT INFORMATION Dear Students, Please make sure you take the time to read the important information listed below. These university student policies and information outline student expectations, rights and responsibilities, university resources, and reporting options. If you have any questions about the information listed below, please contact the Dean of Students Office at 502-852-5787 or email your questions to dos@louisville.edu. Code of Student Conduct 2021-2022 louisville.edu/dos/students/code-of-student-conduct.html The Dean of Students Office (DOS) meets with students to assess situations of possible non-academic misconduct as described in the Code of Student Conduct. The university's Code of Student Conduct is promulgated to give students general notice of non-academic prohibited conduct. The Code should be read broadly and is not designed to define non-academic misconduct in exhaustive terms. Students are responsible for adhering to the Code of Student Conductand should familiarize themselves with the Code. In order to protect and preserve a quality educational environment for the campus community, the DOS offers education and support for students struggling with a crisis, concern or behavioral issues. Title IX Student Sexual Misconduct Policy 2021-2022 louisville.edu/dos/students/student-sexual-misconduct-policy.html The Student Sexual Misconduct Policy outlines options for a student who believes he/she may have been or currently is a victim of sexual misconduct by a student, university visitor or employee within the university community. Student Handbook louisville.edu/dos/students/policies-procedures/student-handbook.html The University of Louisville’s Student Handbook informs students of academic matters, opportunities for involvement, and describes programs/services to help improve the quality of each student’s educational experience. The Handbook also provides information about the policies governing students during their tenure at the university. These policies express expectations of behavior and protect the rights of the individual. Each student and student group is held responsible for the policies of the university currently in effect or put into effect by the appropriate authorities of the University of Louisville. Rave Alert If you have not already signed up for Rave Alerts, we encourage you to take the time to do so. Rave Alerts will provide you with information on how to safely respond to the emergency. The alerts generally will follow a template that includes what happened, when and where it happened, and what action you should take. Sometimes, full information is not available in the first notification. However, in the case of an unfolding emergency, updated information will be posted at louisville.edu and sent to you via your university e-mail account. You can sign up for Rave Alerts at: louisville.edu/alerts Managing Meal Plans Your must change or add your meal plan every fall and spring semester. All meal plans revert back to the standard plan each semester. The Meal Plan Change Portal is now open for the Spring 2022 semester. The portal will close on 1/20/22 and changes will update within a couple of days to your tuition account. We encourage you to utilize the Find Your Fit tool to find the best meal plan for you. Meal Plans COVID-19 Upcoming vaccine clinics UofL Campus Health Services will be offer COVID-19 boosters, COVID-19 vaccinations and flu vaccinations starting the week of Jan. 3, 2022, at the HSC and Belknap campuses. You can get both your COVID-19 vaccine/booster and your flu vaccine at the same time, if desired. Please self-schedule an appointment and remember your vaccination card. See the vaccine clinics' schedule below: HSC Campus: HCOC, 401 E. Chestnut St., 10 a.m.-3 p.m., Wednesday–Friday, Jan. 5–7, and Wednesday–Friday, Jan. 19–21 Belknap Campus: Student Activities Center, 10 a.m.–3 p.m., Wednesday-Friday, Jan. 12–14. and Wednesday–Friday, Jan 26–28 CONNECT Stay connected this semester There are SO many ways to get involved and stay connected to campus. Things to do at UofL EngageUofL Campus events Student news Facebook Campus Spring 2022 RSO Involvement Fair Come join us for the Spring 2022 RSO and Involvement Fair this upcoming spring semester! Come explore some of our organizations January 18, 11 AM to 1 PM in the Red Barn. Get involved and talk with our faith-based, cultural, greek life, academic/honors, sports clubs, and political student organizations. ACADEMICS Become a teacher. MAT Alt Cert info session Join us for an online info session to learn about our Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) Alternative Certification. You will learn about the alternative route to certification and how our program can help you become a certified teacher. Register at forms.gle/x8iCSGwqvj1Qaqpv6. SPORTS UofL Bowling League—all skill levels welcome Tuesdays 6:20pm Executive Strike/Spare, 911 Phillips Ln $15 per week (3 games and shoes), 12 week league For questions and more information, contact Faith Yount @ fayoun01@louisville.edu STUDY ABROAD Free Passport Luncheon Are you a current UofL freshman? Do you receive the Federal Pell Grant? Are you a U.S. citizen who has never had a U.S. passport before? If yes, attend this event to learn how to receive a FREE U.S. passport, a $165 value. Attendees will receive a meal voucher that can be used at SAC retailers. January 24, 12pm, SAC W116. fb.me/e/2W28reRUb Family Friendly Event Spring 2022 Study Abroad Fair Join the Office of Study Abroad and International Travel on January 26 from 11 a.m.–2 p.m. for the Spring 2022 in-person Study Abroad Fair. Affiliated program providers and UofL departments will be tabling. SAC MPR. fb.me/e/282a6srK8 Family Friendly Event ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I have some concerns, but I don’t know where to go on campus. How can I figure out what to do? A. UofL’s ConcernCenter is a great resource and can be found at https://louisville.concerncenter.com/. The website has a directory of all resources on campus. If you aren’t sure where to start, you can always search by your issue (for example, test anxiety) and all relevant resources will be provided! DID YOU KNOW? There are lockers you can rent at the Student Activities Center. To request one, go to: louisville.edu/sac/resources/locker-rental CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe