[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Master's Degree Programs / Master of Arts in Teaching in Special Education (Alternative Certification) /-/images/pages/mat/OLWEB1905_MAT_1596x740_1.png Guide students to overcome obstacles. mat mat-program-page organic ../../programs/masters/master-of-arts-in-teaching-in-special-education/mat?tab=apply Erin Elord Online Enrollment Counselor Online Master of Arts in Teaching in Special Education The online Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) in Special Education is an alternative certification program designed to prepare career-changing professionals and those with a bachelor’s in a field other than education to teach students with disabilities. Offered by the College of Education and Human Development at the University of Louisville, this Special Education-focused MAT equips graduates with relevant knowledge that they can immediately apply in the classroom. Teachers pursuing an MSD or LBD Alternative Certification are required to be employed on a provisional teaching certification. As a student in the online MAT program at UofL, you can cultivate the skills needed to teach students who have disabilities that affect their academic achievement and behavior. By learning how to implement effective instructional methods, you can make education accessible for all students. Specializations are available in Moderate to Severe Disabilities (MSD) and Learning and Behavior Disorders (LBD). Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Highlights Immerse yourself in the field through comprehensive classroom experiences. Learn from knowledgeable, experienced practitioners, researchers and teachers. Take advantage of flexible learning and personal attention, customized to your goals. Start the Alternative Certification program in the Summer Term (those who wish to start in the Fall will enroll in the Traditional option first until they obtain employment). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete your degree on your own time through fully online coursework and learning tools. Learn More 36 CREDIT HOURS Take 12 specialized courses in Special Education MSD leading to an Alternative Certification. Learn More $564 PER CREDIT HOUR The College of Education and Human Development is giving back to teachers with a 25% tuition reduction. Teachers give their best to their students and UofL is giving their best to teachers! Starting in Summer 2019, the College of Education and Human Development will offer a 25% Tuition Reduction for Teachers enrolling in approved teacher education programs—online and on-campus. Read more in a Q&A with Betty Hampton, Director of Graduate Services for the College of Education and Human Development (CEHD) at UofL. What will I learn as a MAT in Special Education student? The expertise you’ll develop as a student in the Master of Arts in Teaching in Special Education program will prepare you to become a special education educator—regardless of your undergraduate background. You’ll develop a comprehensive understanding of how to work with all types of exceptional children and methods of adapting education to meet their unique needs. Specific expertise gained from the program includes: Focused expertise in your chosen specialization—either Moderate to Severe Disabilities (MSD) or Learning and Behavior Disorders (LBD). Interdisciplinary, service-focused understanding of the basic adult needs of persons with developmental disabilities and how to help these individuals achieve maximum quality of life. Exploration of the principles and procedure in the field of applied behavior analysis. How to design, implement and evaluate behavioral programs in an effective and ethically responsive manner. What is the job outlook for someone with a MAT in Special Education? This program leads to MSD or LBD certification only. Individuals completing this program would not be certified to teach general education (Elementary, Middle or Secondary) unless they completed an additional certification program. Graduates of this program will primarily be certified to teach students with moderate and severe disabilities or learning and behavior disorders in Kentucky. The 2019-2029 occupational outlook for special education teachers is expected to grow 3% nationwide, which is as fast as the average national occupation growth rate and have a median annual salary of $61,420 (bls.gov). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Application Deadline Term Start Date July 1 Fall* August December 1 Spring January May 1 Summer June *Applicants who wish to enroll in the Alternative Certification program can start in the Summer Term. MAT Alternative Certification applicants must obtain full-time employment before the fall semester, teaching students in a special education classroom. Applicants who wish to start in the Fall may enroll in the Traditional option first until they obtain employment. Steps to Apply Complete Graduate Application Submit application fee of $65 (non-refundable) Submit official transcripts of all undergraduate and graduate work completed at region accredited institutions C grade or better in ENGL 102 (or equivalent) C grade or better in oral communication course Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution* Minimum GPA of 2.75 on a 4-point scale Minimum GRE or PRAXIS Test Scores as required by the Kentucky Education Professional Standards Board Note: when submitting test scores through ETS, use the general University of Louisville code, 1838 Current Teacher Education Resume - use of the resume template is required 3 letters of recommendation from individuals who can speak to your academic and/or professional capabilities Signed code of ethics/technology statement uploaded to your online application – use the Professional Code of Ethics and CEHD Technology Agreement form [PDF] Interview with a satisfactory outcome Personal essays uploaded with your application – each essay should be double-spaced (Times New Roman 12 point font) and no more than 3 pages Essay #1 In what ways has your cultural heritage and background influenced the way you learn, and impacted your interactions with others who come from a different cultural background? Describe an example of an injustice or inequity that you witnessed, experienced, or became aware of, and your response at that time. Then, explain how you would respond if it occurred again. Finally, explain how you would support respect for diversity in your future classroom, and how you would demonstrate a commitment to social justice and equity. Essay #2 In thinking about the characteristics of an effective teacher, name one characteristic as your greatest strength and explain why this characteristic is important to effective teaching. Name one or two characteristic(s) you need to develop to become an effective teacher, and your plan for improvement. Please note that we already assume you “love kids” and “have patience.” Your answers should be based on careful reflection and may include such dispositional qualities as: initiative, flexibility, intellectual curiosity, creativity, preparation/organization, responsibility, reflection, collaboration, dedication, and/or dependability. *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. Out-of-State Applicants Out-of-state certified teachers should be advised that we cannot guarantee that our program will meet licensure, salary, advancement or other requirements in their state. As part of the admission process, we will require a written statement confirming their interest in the program for personal development and that they understand the program is designed to meet Kentucky certification requirements only. For more information, please contact our academic advisor at betty.hampton@louisville.edu. Enrollment Requirements Upon admission to the program, students will work directly and collaboratively with their assigned advisor to complete any additional requirements before enrolling. For questions about application and enrollment to the online MAT Special Ed, please email online@louisville.edu or call 800.871.8635. Start Your Application The MAT in Special Education is a 30-36 credit hour program depending on your concentration. Our curriculum is designed to help you develop your knowledge of student characteristics and teaching pedagogy. MSD Concentration Course Title Hours Student Characteristics EDSP 540 Introduction to Exceptional Children 3 EDSP 594 Foundational Concepts in Intellectual and Physical Disability 3 Pedagogy EDSP 518 Structured Literacy for Diverse Learners 3 EDSP 520 Assessment of Students with Moderate/Severe Disabilities 3 EDSP 546 Behavior Analytic Approach to Communication 3 EDSP 570 Autism: Introduction and Understanding 3 EDSP 609 Moderate/Severe Disabilities Curriculum and Methods I 3 EDSP 611 Moderate/Severe Disabilities Curriculum and Methods II 3 EDSP 614 Transition Programs and Services for Children and Youth with Disabilities 3 EDSP 635 Moderate and Severe Disabilities Practicum 3 EDSP 644 Applied Behavior Analysis 3 EDSP 647 Teaching Mathematics to Students with Disabilities 3 Minimum Total Credits Required 36 LBD Concentration Course Title Hours Student Characteristics EDSP 540 Introduction to Exceptional Children 3 EDSP 675 Characteristics, Needs, and Responses to Students with EBD 3 Pedagogy EDSP 512 Methods for Students with Learning and Behavior Disorders 3 EDSP 516 Assessment Procedures for Students with Learning and Behavior Disorders 3 EDSP 644 Applied Behavior Analysis 3 EDSP 518 Structured Literacy for Diverse Learners 3 EDSP 647 Teaching Mathematics to Students with Disabilities 3 EDSP 614 Transition Programs and Services for Children and Youth with Disabilities 3 EDSP 645 Learning and Behavior Disorders Practicum 3 EDSP 510 Legal Issues in Special Education 3 Minimum Total Credits Required 30 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Overview Outcomes Admissions COURSES TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link