No images? Click here June 1, 2022 Time is running out, submit your FAFSA The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) application form for the 2021-2022 aid year must be submitted by 11:59 p.m. (CT) on June 30, 2022. Check out the financial aid website for helpful tips for navigating the form. The 22-23 form is also now available. louisville.edu/financialaid You may be eligible for free tutoring Your online course(s) could be eligible for free online tutoring through REACH. Check to see if tutoring is available for your course(s) and for workshops, strategies, as well as guides on learning online, productivity, time management, test taking, and more. reach.louisville.edu/tutoring New to Blackboard? Blackboard is UofL's platform for online classes. Whether you are a new or experienced user, here are beneficial tips for how to prepare for your course, optimize using the system’s tools and features, and get the most out of this learning system. dcidt.louisville.edu/resources/BBorientation/#/ Summer badging program: learn & win a Kindle! The Digital Transformation Center is offering a unique opportunity to students: learn new skills and win an Amazon Kindle Fire! Complete digital badges for FREE and submit to the Digital Transformation Center to participate in the monthly drawing. express.adobe.com/page/u1wf2ECU9fiOr Did you know? Is stress getting to you? Therapy Assistance Online (TAO) offers FREE mobile-friendly help for stress, anxiety and depression that fits around your busy life… anytime, anywhere. UofL Students CAN SIGN UP TODAY using your louisville.edu address at us.taoconnect.org/register. Also, if you have ADHD, a learning disability, or a physical disability, there is a wealth of information to help you. Go to: louisville.edu/disability/current-students. Online Student Resources Subscribe University of Louisville 2100 S. Floyd St. Student Activities Center, W301 Louisville, KY 40208 You are receiving this email because you are a University of Louisville online student. If you choose to unsubscribe, you agree to no longer receive important UofL news and updates. Unsubscribe