Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Adult & Transfer Services Navigation Home Why UofL? Academics Visit Campus Online Learning Campus Resources First Year Initiatives Student Activities Board Recognized Student Organizations (RSOs) Athletics Why UofL?Why UofL? Dropdown Toggle Academics Visit Campus Online Learning Campus Resources First Year Initiatives Student Activities Board Recognized Student Organizations (RSOs) Athletics Cost & Aid Tuition and Fees Cost Calculator Transfer & Adult Scholarships Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Residency Housing & Residence Life Dining Services Cost & AidCost & Aid Dropdown Toggle Tuition and Fees Cost Calculator Transfer & Adult Scholarships Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Residency Housing & Residence Life Dining Services Apply Now How to Transfer Transfer Checklist Academic Unit Admission Criteria Admission Petition Application Fee Waiver Residency Fresh Start Policy Apply NowApply Now Dropdown Toggle How to Transfer Transfer Checklist Academic Unit Admission Criteria Admission Petition Application Fee Waiver Residency Fresh Start Policy Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Reverse Degree Credit by Exam KCTCS Degree Pathways Transfer CreditTransfer Credit Dropdown Toggle Transfer Credit Reverse Degree Credit by Exam KCTCS Degree Pathways Adult Students Adult First-time Freshman Adult Returning Student Project Graduate Senior Citizen Student Adult StudentsAdult Students Dropdown Toggle Adult First-time Freshman Adult Returning Student Project Graduate Senior Citizen Student ULtra Benefits of ULtra JCTC (Future UofL) Students Programs & Events Contact & Office Hours FAQs KCTCS Transfer Degree Pathways ULtraULtra Dropdown Toggle Benefits of ULtra JCTC (Future UofL) Students Programs & Events Contact & Office Hours FAQs KCTCS Transfer Degree Pathways Veterans Applying for Tuition Assistance Campus Resource Team Cost of Attendance Applying for G I Bill Benefits Course Certification for Veterans Benefits Military Spouse Info Official Military Transcripts Student Services Veterans Contact Us New Student Checklist Request for Military Withdrawl Application Fee Waiver for Veterans VeteransVeterans Dropdown Toggle Applying for Tuition Assistance Campus Resource Team Cost of Attendance Applying for G I Bill Benefits Course Certification for Veterans Benefits Military Spouse Info Official Military Transcripts Student Services Veterans Contact Us New Student Checklist Request for Military Withdrawl Application Fee Waiver for Veterans FAQs Contact Us Find out how your credits will transfer Pre-Evaluation Undergraduate Transfer Credit Appeal Form Diversity (D1/D2) Appeals Home / Transfer Credit / Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Policy Community College and 4yr Transfer Credit UofL generally accepts transfer credits earned at institutions of higher education accredited by the following institutional accreditors, which are recognized by the U.S. Department of Education: Higher Learning Commission (HLC) Middle States Association of College and Schools, Commission on Higher Education (MSCHE) New England Association of Schools and Colleges, Inc., Commission on Institutions of Higher Learning (NEASC-CHE) Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities (NWCCU) Southern Association of College and Schools, Commission on Colleges (SACS-COC) Western Association of Schools and College, Accrediting Commission for Senior Colleges and Universities (WASC-SCUC) Western Association of Schools and College, Accrediting Commission for Community Colleges and Junior Colleges (WASC-ACCJC) To check of the status of an institution's accreditation please visit Department of Education. Remedial, developmental and technical/vocational courses are not accepted as transfer credit. The Office of Transfer and Adult Services generally determines the transferability of completed course work at the 100-200 level and for the purposes of general education. Upper level coursework, 300-400 level, is sent to the appropriate academic unit for review and transfer equivalency. The "Transfer Credit Practices" report published by the American Association of Collegiate Registrars and Admissions Officers (AACRAO) will be the reference used for the evaluation of such credits. International Transfer Credit Applicants who have attended institutions outside the United States may be required to submit their academic records to the World Educational Services or Educational Credential Evaluators for general evaluation. All academic credentials not in English must be accompanied with a notarized verbatim English translation in addition to official transcripts. All academic credentials should be mailed directly to the Office of Admissions. Due to limited information associated with WES and ECE evaluations we strongly suggest that applicants obtain translated syllabi for possible submission of transfer credit. Military Transfer Credit In alignment with American Council on Education (ACE) transfer credit guidelines, we support the application of transfer and military credit for military and veteran students. UoL may grant credit for military course completion after review of each applicant's military service experience. The American Council on Education's (ACE) "Guide to the Evaluation of Educational Experiences in the Armed Services" will be used to evaluate military experience. UofL grants credit for Military educational courses. To transfer your educational courses, we required submission of a Joint Services Transcript (JST) or Community College of the Air Force transcript. Military credits are awarded on a "pass" (no letter grade) basis. We do not limit the total number of credits which can be obtained through military service experience, as long as they are all degree applicable. Notes UofL uses the semester hour unit of credit and a 4.0 grading scale. Plus and minus grades will be recorded as the letter grade only. Transfer applicants should note that regardless of the number of transfer hours the University may accept, all candidates for a bachelor’s degree must complete 30 of the last 36 hours of their program at UofL. A minimum grade of D- is required on all courses transferred to UofL. Some colleges and departments may require a higher grade in order for the course to satisfy degree requirements. Grade point averages (GPA's) from other institutions do not transfer to UofL. When students begin at UofL, a new GPA is established after the first semester of classes. However, all grades, all courses and all previously attended institutions are included and counted in the admission process. Find out how your credits will transfer Pre-Evaluation Undergraduate Transfer Credit Appeal Form Diversity (D1/D2) Appeals © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville