No images? Click here March 7, 2022 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Election ballot closes at 11:59PM on Thursday, March 10. louisville.edu/student/elections. If there are any questions or concerns, contact election@louisville.edu. IMPORTANT INFORMATION Academic dishonesty policy Student Rights & Responsibilities Section 5: Academic dishonesty is prohibited at the University of Louisville. It is a serious offense because it diminishes the quality of scholarship, prohibits independent thought that is essential to intellectual growth and development, makes accurate evaluation of student progress impossible, and defrauds those in society who must ultimately depend upon the knowledge and integrity of the institution and its students and faculty. louisville.edu/dos/students/studentrightsandrespsonsibilities Emergency procedures The university's Police, Fire and Emergency Management officials work with agencies throughout the community to review Louisville's readiness for natural or man-made emergencies. These procedures are designed to assist and guide members of the UofL community when emergencies do occur. louisville.edu/police/emergency-management Military student withdrawal policy To request a withdrawal due to activation or deployment military students need to fill out a form which can be found on the Office of Military and Veteran Student Services (OMVSS) website. For questions, please contact OMVSS at veterans@louisville.edu, 852-0998. louisville.edu/admissions/apply/transfer/veterans ITS asks students to be cyber aware With the rise of global cybersecurity issues and increasing online scams, Information Technology Services (ITS) asks everyone to utilize common-sense ways to protect yourself online. Having up-to-date software, web browsers, apps and operating systems is the best defense against viruses and malware. ?s call ITS HelpDesk 852-7997. louisville.edu/its ACADEMICS BS in Public Health, Track in Pre-Health The Professional Health Studies Track is for students who wish to complete pre-health pre-requisites while completing their major in public health. The curriculum meets most pre-requisite requirements for the majority of pre-health professions. Eligible students must have and maintain a 2.8GPA. catalog.louisville.edu/undergraduate/majors/public-health-bs/#trackrequirementstext WHAT'S HAPPENING Atlanta Spa Shootings Anniversary Vigil Join us in commemorating the victims' lives and stand in solidarity with the AAPI community. Tuesday, March 8, 7–9pm at the Red Barn. Presented by APSU and SGA. RSVP. 2022 Spring Job and Internship Fair Seeking a full-time position, internship, or part-time opportunity? Looking to explore future career opportunities? Want to network with employers hiring UofL students? Join us for the 2022 Spring Job and Internship Fair. Wednesday, March 9, SAC Ballroom, 1 -4 p.m. EST, open to ALL majors. What's your UofL bucket list? Now is the time to maximize your college experience. In this interactive experience, you'll create your own college bucket list, reflect on how you currently spend your time, and make a plan to achieve your goals. FREE grab and go snacks will be available for participants. Wednesday, March 9, 1pm, BAB 218 uofl.me/success-series Family Friendly Event STUDENT AFFAIRS PODCASTS Study Abroad Be sure to check out the latest podcast from UofL Student Affairs about Study Abroad. Check it out here: www.buzzsprout.com/1945241/episodes/10175020 SPORTS HSC Fitness Center extended hours of operation Intramural Sports in collaboration with the School of Medicine is happy to announce extended hours of operation for the HSC Fitness Center. New hours will include being open later on weekdays, now until 10pm and new Saturday hours of 11:30am to 5:30pm. The pilot program will run through April. louisville.edu/intramurals SRC Spring Break hours announced The SRC will be operating on a modified schedule during Spring Break, March 12 through 20. The hours will be; Weekdays 9:00 AM to 9:00 PM, Saturdays 11:00 AM to 5:00 PM and Sundays 1:00 PM to 7:00 PM. We hope you will come see us if you stay in town over break. louisville.edu/intramurals SRC Group Fitness Have you taken a look at our Spring Group Fitness Schedule? We have new class offerings like "Barre Fusion." This unique class is low-impact, but high intensity. A guaranteed fun way to stay in shape! Check out our full schedule on our website. louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness/src-group-fitness T-Shirt Tuesday at Baseball The UofL Baseball team are playing Tuesday, March 8 at 2 pm. It is the first of three T-Shirt Tuesdays. It is also Faculty and Staff Appreciation Night at Jim Patterson Stadium. gocards.com/calendar Bluegrass Challenge at Ulmer Stadium Thursday – Sunday. Bring your furry friend to Friday’s game at 4 pm and 6 pm for Pups at the Diamond. There will be a dog bandana giveaway for early arriving furry Cards fans. Saturday and Sunday are our Community Outreach games. The team is asking fans to bring new or slightly used sporting equipment for donations. gocards.com/calendar Cards v. Michigan Series The UofL Baseball team hosts Michigan on Friday – Sunday, March 11–13. Admission is free for students at Jim Patterson Stadium. It is 70s weekend. Friday is Budweiser Three Buck Night and there will be a Tie Dye T-Shirt giveaway. Saturday is Camper Reunion Day and Sunday is Family Fun Day. JOB OPPORTUNITIES REACH is hiring for Fall 2022 If you are interested please visit reach.louisville.edu/employment for details and the application. SUSTAINABILITY Student Sustainability Coalition Fundraiser Come and visit the Comfy Cow at Cardtowne on March 10 any time and support the SSC for the upcoming Skillshare and Repair Fair. 339 W Cardinal Blvd, Louisville, KY 40208 Family Friendly Event Green Heart Project volunteer tree planting UofL's Green Heart Project & Louisville Grows need YOU to join our tree planting team in south Louisville on Saturday, 3/12, 9am-1pm, meetup at Wyandotte Park (1104 Beecher St.)! Help us restore the urban tree canopy. No experience is necessary, everyone is welcome to come play in the dirt with us! louisville.edu/sustainability/events/green-heart-project-volunteer-tree-planting Bettie Johnson Hall wins in Ecolympics All hail the residents of Bettie Johnson Hall who won the Dorm Drawdown by reducing their energy use 8%! They’ll enjoy a pizza party & you can still win one of the remaining weekly prize baskets or the grand prize! Take action & win thru 3/26! Reduce, reuse, recycle, ditch the car, unplug, etc. RESEARCH STUDY Mind-body connection research study Participate in a two-session study (45mins; 45mins) to uncover how mental health affects physical functioning and health risks of young adults, ages 18-39. Participants will receive a $25 gift card. IRB#21.0432. To find out more, email: mbstudy@louisville.edu ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I recently had a death in my family, and I will need to miss a class for the funeral. How should I go about this? A. The Dean of Students’ Office can send out an absence notification to your professor(s) with appropriate documentation. The notification is just that, a notification, as DOS cannot dictate the content of an instructor or academic department’s attendance policy for their courses. However, we hope that the notification will allow for your faculty to work with you on your absence. For more info, visit https://louisville.edu/dos/facultystaff/absence-notification. DID YOU KNOW? If service is where your heart is, there are opportunities to volunteer year-round with the Engage Lead Serve Board (ELSB). You can find more information about ELSB at: www.uoflelsb.org. Or, if you want to do service abroad, check out the International Service Learning Program (ISLP) at: louisville.edu/islp. CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe