[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Master's Degree Programs / Online Master of Education in Special Education /-/images/pages/sped/2010_SPED_1596x740.jpg Remove barriers. Provide support. sped sped-program-page organic ../../programs/master-of-education-in-special-education?tab=apply Erin Elrod Online Enrollment Counselor Online Master of Education in Special Education The online Master of Education in Special Education is designed for licensed teachers and other professionals interested in developing expertise in areas related specifically to Learning and Behavior Disorders (LBD) or Moderate to Severe Disabilities (MSD) special education. All concentrations are offered by the College of Education and Human Development at the University of Louisville. Offered by the College of Education and Human Development at the University of Louisville, the special education master's program provides a strong foundation in general education content and special education theory and methods. With coursework involving extensive classroom experience, you will develop the skills, competencies and confidence for successful teaching in this important area-including strategies for inclusion, behavior management, social skill instruction and modifying instruction within the general curriculum. Overview Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Highlights Prepare to work with students who have intellectual disabilities that impede academic achievement and adaptive behavior skills (e.g., communication, social behavior and daily living activities). Earn the credentials needed to become certified to teach special education. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes. Complete your degree in as little as 2 years. No GRE required! START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Who Qualifies? The MEd. in Special Education is designed only for licensed teachers looking to become certified to teach Special Education in the state of Kentucky, though potential exceptions are handled on a case-by-case basis. Teachers licensed outside of the state of Kentucky and interested in applying for this degree and concentration, must speak to our academic advisor (betty.hampton@louisville.edu) prior to applying to ensure their qualification and eligibility. Course Delivery Online courses are accessed via webcam in interactive, synchronous sessions (from 4:30 to 7 p.m. ET on specific weekdays). Field Experience & Practicum This program requires field experience and completion of practicum, as well as a Kentucky teaching licensure, which can lead to Rank II certification. Fieldwork requirements must be completed in the state of Kentucky. Students will gain experience in a variety of settings, including teaching in their own classroom (as approved on an individual basis). 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this degree on your time through fully online classes. Learn More 30-36 CREDIT HOURS Earn your master’s degree in Special Education by taking 10-12 courses. Learn More 2 CONCENTRATIONS Specialize your expertise with a concentration in LBD or MSD. CAREER OPPORTUNITIES Employment of special education teachers is projected to grow 8% from 2016 to 2026, as fast as the average for all occupations. Employment growth will be driven by continued demand for special education services. Many job opportunities will stem from the need to replace teachers who leave the occupation due to retirement or career change. — BLS.gov, 2018 Outcomes Students graduating from this program will be qualified to gain licensure to become a special education teacher. You’ll be prepared to better understand the needs of students from elementary to high school. Elementary teachers work primarily with beginning or remedial skills in academic content (English language arts, math, science and social studies), as well as adaptive behaviors. Middle Grade and Secondary teachers address these skills in addition to preparing students to transition to vocations or to post-secondary education. Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 * Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May/June Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete graduate application $65 non-refundable application fee Have official transcripts of all undergraduate and graduate work sent directly to UofL* Submit 2 letters of recommendation (please list email addresses for recommenders in the online application) Sign code of ethics/technology statement [PDF] and upload within online application Check for scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree earned from an accredited institution* Minimum preferred undergraduate GPA of 2.75 and graduate GPA (if applicable) of 3.0 If GPA is lower than 2.75, GRE scores are required; please email gedadm@louisville.edu regarding minimum score requirements Valid Kentucky Teaching Certificate or statement of eligibility for candidates outside Kentucky (see section below). Current resume Two professional writing samples, uploaded within online application Essay 1 – In what ways has your cultural heritage and background influenced the way you teach, and impacted your interactions with others who come from a different cultural background? Describe an example of an injustice or inequity that you witnessed, experienced, or became aware of during teaching - and your response at that time. Then, explain how you would respond if it occurred again. Finally, explain how you support respect for diversity in your classroom, and how you demonstrate a commitment to social justice and equity when teaching. Essay 2 – Please review the Professional Dispositions Rubric [PDF] and consider how you would evaluate your areas of strength as well as those for potential growth in each of the categories. In your essay, please identify three categories that you would rate yourself as "target" or "exemplary" and explain why. Then, identify one area for professional growth, and explain how you envision this program supporting your growth in this area. Double-spaced Times New Roman 12-point font No more than three pages Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. Credit Transfer If you have received graduate credit from another institution, you may transfer up to 6 credits that directly replace approved courses in the program. Approval must be granted by the program director. Out of State Due to the strict requirements of a Kentucky teaching license, field experience and local in-person practicum, it is unlikely that teachers who live outside of Kentucky or outside of the United States will qualify to complete the licensure program. However, potential exceptions are handled on a case-by-case basis, and those who intend to complete this online program at UofL must contact our academic advisor at betty.hampton@louisville.edu prior to applying. If you live outside of the United States, be sure to view special requirements for international students. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. The M.Ed. in Special Education is a 30-36 credit hour program. The curriculum you will follow is determined by your concentration. LBD Concentration Course Title Credit Hours Prerequisite for entry into the program EDSP 540 Introduction to Exceptional Children (or equivalent) Inquiry (9 hours) EDSP 644 Applied Behavior Analysis* 3 EDSP 639 Education Research in P-12 Setting 3 EDSP 669 Single Subject Research Methods and Designs 3 Advocacy (6 hours) EDSP 652 Academic and Behavior Response to Intervention 3 EDSP 627 Applications of Assistive Technology 3 Action (3 hours) EDSP 645 Learning and Behavior Disorders Practicum* 3 LBD (18 hours) EDSP 647 Teaching Mathematics to Students with Disabilities 3 EDSP 512 Methods for Students with Learning and Behavior Disorders* 3 EDSP 516 Assessment Procedures for Students with Learning & Behavior Disorders* 3 EDSP 675 Characteristics, Needs, and Responds to Students with EBD* 3 EDSP 518 Teaching Reading Special Education P-12* 3 EDSP 570 Autism: Introduction and Understanding or EDSP 650 Advanced Applied Behavior Analysis 3 Minimum Total Credits Required 36 MSD Concentration Course Title Credit Hours Prerequisite for entry into the program EDSP 540 Introduction to Exceptional Children (or equivalent) Inquiry (9 hours) EDSP 639 Research Analysis in Special Education 3 EDSP 644 Applied Behavior Analysis* 3 EDSP 669 Single Subject Research Methods and Designs 3 Advocacy (6 hours) EDSP 627 Applications of Assistive Technology 3 EDSP 652 Academic and Behavior Response to Intervention 3 Action (3 hours) EDSP 635 Moderate and Severe Disabilities Practicum 3 MSD (18 hours) EDSP 520 Assessment of Exceptional Learners 3 EDSP 546 Behavior Analytic Approach to Communication* 3 EDSP 570 Autism: Introduction and Understanding 3 EDSP 594 Foundational Concepts in Intellectual and Physical Disabilities* 3 EDSP 609 Moderate/Severe Disabilities Curriculum and Methods I* 3 EDSP 611 Moderate/Severe Disabilities Methods II* 3 Minimum Total Credits Required 30 * Required for certification Entry, midpoint and exit assessments are also required for graduation. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Featured Faculty View the full list of Special Education faculty here. Overview Admissions COURSES TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link