Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Novel Coronavirus (nCoV2019) Navigation Home Communications and Updates 2021 Schedule of Vaccination events 2021 Sept 7-10 vaccination table Communications and UpdatesCommunications and Updates Dropdown Toggle 2021 Schedule of Vaccination events 2021 Sept 7-10 vaccination table Students Health Requirements and Procedures Spring 2022 Student Acknowledgement Statement 1.4.22 Final StudentsStudents Dropdown Toggle Health Requirements and Procedures Spring 2022 Student Acknowledgement Statement 1.4.22 Final Faculty Health Requirements and Procedures FacultyFaculty Dropdown Toggle Health Requirements and Procedures Employees Supervisors Health Requirements and Procedures Reopening Campus Committees EmployeesEmployees Dropdown Toggle Supervisors Health Requirements and Procedures Reopening Campus Committees Visitors Health Protocols UofL COVID Quarantine and Isolation Protocols Spring 2022 Health ProtocolsHealth Protocols Dropdown Toggle UofL COVID Quarantine and Isolation Protocols Spring 2022 Home Communications and Updates Students Faculty Employees Visitors Health Protocols Home Novel Coronavirus (nCoV2019) Stay Safe. Stay Healthy. Stop the Spread of COVID-19. Quick Links If You Test Positive or Are Exposed UofL COVID-19 FAQs Get Tested Get Your Vaccine or Booster Travel Guidelines Business Operations COVID Support Team Can't find an answer you need in the FAQs? Contact the Business Operations COVID Support Team, open Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Call 502-852-7549, email businessops@louisville.edu, or start a live chat. Live Chat Health and Safety Expectations Masks optional Effective, May 4, 2022, masking is only required in clinical areas on campus. In all other areas, masks are optional regardless of vaccination status. Physical distancing is encouraged when possible and when spaces can accommodate six feet of distance between university members. Testing UofL has consolidated its testing locations. Cardinals who experience symptoms or suspect an exposurecan get tested on the Belknap and HSC campuses through Campus Health. Learn more. Feeling symptoms? If you are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 you should: Stay at home or in your residential hall. Notify Campus Health at 502-852-6479 and contact your medical provider. If you are a student, notify your professors. If you are an employee, notify your supervisor. Even if you decide to seek care from your own medical provider, be sure to still inform Campus Health. University Response COVID-19 Vaccines The COVID-19 vaccines available in the U.S. are safe and effective. COVID-19 vaccination is not required, but it is strongly encouraged in order to keep our campus safe, prevent the spread of COVID-19, and reduce the severity of the affects in those who contract COVID-19. It's simple and easy to get vaccinated and there are multiple vaccine locations near you. Learn more. Contact Tracing Process Once the results of a COVID-19 test are confirmed positive, contact investigation will be initiated by Campus Health Services (Campus Health) in partnership with public health officials. Once contacts have been identified, Campus Health will notify anyone who may have been exposed. Read more about the university's COVID-19 Mitigation procedures and take a look at Campus Health's Response Procedures for a step-by-step reference on how Campus Health conducts investigation. Scenario Planning As part of UofL's preparation for the virus's potential effects on students, faculty and staff, university officials are closely monitoring the spread of COVID-19 on campus and in the community. Read the list of key scenarios that could require a quick response and what those potential responses by the university might be. Travel Guidelines Domestic and international travel The university has returned to pre-COVID procedures for domestic travel and has reinstated the Travel Warning Policy for international travel. Under the Travel Warning Policy, UofL permits international travel under our traditional procedures (i.e., without an appeal) to locations identified as Level 2 or below on both CDC and State Department advisory lists and locations that allow U.S. citizens to enter. A list of these locations can be found here. Travel to CDC and State Department Level 3 and 4 destinations requires additional steps and considerations. These details are outlined in the international travel procedures and forms on the provost's website. Travel to locations where U.S. citizens are not permitted will be approved only in cases where the traveler is exempt from these regulations. Travel reminders and resources Get fully vaccinated before traveling. If you're not fully vaccinated, traveling is strongly discouraged. Research the state-wide positivity rate or the international warning level of a destination before choosing to travel. Review the CDC’s current travel recommendations. If you are unvaccinated and returning from another country, you may have to quarantine. Review the CDC’s international travel recommendations for unvaccinated people. Review UofL's international travel procedures and forms as well as the Travel Warning Policy for any additional UofL requirements Direct all international travel questions to the International Center at fasit@louisville.edu. Home Communications and Updates Students Faculty Employees Visitors Health Protocols University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 (800) 334-UofL (8635) (502) 852-5555 twitterfacebookyoutubeinstagramlinkedin Be Prepared Learning remotely Teaching remotely Working remotely Travel info General Resources CDC: Coronavirus Situation Summary CDC: Prevention & Treatment CDC: FAQs KY Covid-19 Resources UofL Research Information Support UofL Students and Research Questions? UofL Question Center © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville