Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Research and Innovation Navigation Home About Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program Researchers Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway ResearchersResearchers Dropdown Toggle Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway Industry Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started IndustryIndustry Dropdown Toggle Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started Students & Post-Docs Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Students & Post-DocsStudents & Post-Docs Dropdown Toggle Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Participants Children in Research Open Trials ParticipantsParticipants Dropdown Toggle Children in Research Open Trials Contact Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup ContactContact Dropdown Toggle Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup Industry Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started Home / Industry / Research Centers and Institutes Research Centers and Institutes The University of Louisville Office of Research and Innovation supports research centers and institutes that can help your company solve problems and innovate. These centers bring together faculty members from different disciplines, giving you one-stop-shop access to top talent in a particular area of research, from micro/nano technology, to additive manufacturing, to environmental health and wellness to cancer and heart treatment and innovation. The University of Louisville Office of Research and Innovation supports research centers and institutes that can help your company solve problems and innovate. These centers bring together faculty members from different disciplines, giving you one-stop-shop access to top talent in a particular area of research. Centers and institutes are established in order to promote the development of new knowledge and enhance the research productivity of individual faculty. AMIST: Additive Manufacturing Institute of Science & Technology With 10+ affiliated faculty from engineering, medicine and dentistry the AMIST supports and promotes the broad range of additive manufacturing (AM) research activities at the University of Louisville. Current faculty research is funded by industry and multiple federal agencies, including DoD (Navy, Air Force and Army), NASA and NSF. Additive Manufacturing Institute of Science & Technology J. B. Speed School of Engineering Eastern Parkway Louisville, KY 40292 Phone: 502.852.xxxx Fax: 502.852.xxxx Website BCC: Brown Cancer Center The mission of the James Graham Brown Cancer Center is to generate new knowledge relating to the nature of cancer, and to create new and more effective approaches to prevention, diagnosis and therapy, while delivering medical advances with compassion and respect to cancer patients throughout our region. Brown Cancer Center 200 Abraham Flexner Way Louisville, KY 40202 866.521.3627 502.587.4011 Website CHHP: Center for Health Hazards Preparedness The Center for Health Hazards Preparedness is a nationally-recognized center of excellence in coordinating research, education and service to improve the local, regional and national response to potential acts of terrorism, natural disasters and infectious diseases. By defining competencies, disseminating best practices and offering virtual drills and exercises, communities will be strengthened as their health care workers and administration are prepared to appropriately assess and respond to a variety of public health hazards. Center for Health Hazards Preparedness School of Public Health and Information Sciences 485 E. Gray St Louisville, KY 40202 502 852-3299 (Office) 502 852-3291 (Fax) Email Website CIEHS: Center for Integrated Environmental Health Sciences The Center for Integrated Environmental Health Sciences (CIEHS) at the University of Louisville is a National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences Core Center that provides infrastructure support for other environmental health science researchers, develops and mentors junior faculty, assists investigators in translating their basic science research into human studies, and supports a Community Engagement Core that provides outreach and environmental health education to youth groups and healthcare providers in the Louisville region and western Kentucky. Center for Integrated Environmental Health Sciences University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40202 Phone: (502) 852-5347 Website CII: Cardiovascular Innovation Institute The Cardiovascular Innovation Institute (CII) is an internationally established research enterprise created to understand the mechanisms of heart, peripheral vascular and microcirculatory disease. It is a collaboration between the University of Louisville and Jewish Hospital & St. Mary’s HealthCare. The mission of the CII is to improve lives through world-class cardiovascular research, scientific discovery, and new enterprise creation. Cardiovascular Innovation Institute (CII) 302 E. Muhammad Ali Blvd. Louisville, KY 40202 502-852-1381 Website CIK: Commonwealth Institute of Kentucky The Commonwealth Institute of Kentucky (CIK) was established in 2015 with funding from KentuckyOne Health. CIK obtained recognition from the Board of Trustees in January 2016. The institute began to build its infrastructure almost immediately and initiated several projects. Through the work of the CIK executive committee, we have established guiding principles, goals and organizational structure that is strongly aligned with CIK’s mission of informing policy and practice that will improve the health of populations in Kentucky and beyond by facilitating and supporting transdisciplinary collaborations for research and data analytics. Commonwealth Institute of Kentucky (CIK) School of Public Health & Information Sciences University of Louisville 485 E. Gray Street Louisville, KY 40202 502-852-xxxxd Email CIK Website Conn: Conn Center for Renewable Energy Research The Conn Center provides leadership, research, support and policy development in renewable energy; advances the goal of renewable energy; and promotes technologies, practices, and programs that increase efficiency for energy utilization in homes, businesses and public buildings. Conn Center for Renewable Energy Research Ernst Hall Room 102A University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 Phone: 502-852-8597 Fax: 502-852-8619 Email the Conn Center. Website CPM: Center for Predictive Medicine for Bio-Defense and Emerging Infectious Diseases The Center for Health Hazards Preparedness is a nationally-recognized center of excellence in coordinating research, education and service to improve the local, regional and national response to potential acts of terrorism, natural disasters and infectious diseases. By defining competencies, disseminating best practices and offering virtual drills and exercises, communities will be strengthened as their health care workers and administration are prepared to appropriately assess and respond to a variety of public health hazards. Health Science Campus Location Clinical Translational Research Building (CTR) 505 South Hancock Street, Sixth Floor Louisville, KY 40202 Main Office Number: 502-852-1339 Fax Number: 502-852-5468 Email CTR Shelby Campus Location Regional Biocontainment Laboratory (RBL) 950 North Hurstbourne Parkway Louisville, KY 40222 Main Office Number: 502-852-1339 Fax Number: 502-852-1393 Email RBL Website CTSI-CTSA: Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute The UofL and its Health Partners serve a highly diverse patient population, including many underrepresented and medical underserved groups. Our overall goals are to develop a collaborative clinical and translational research infrastructure across Kentucky and with partnering IDeA CTRs (Clinical and Translational Resources) and CTSAs (Clinical and Translational Science Awards) that will positively impact the health outcomes; and to develop an interactive professional development program that will create a pipeline for the next generation of clinical and translational investigators. This us achieved these goals through four aims: Expand and fully integrate the “academic home” for clinical and translational research (CTR). Create a multidisciplinary program in research training, education and career development, including utilizing advanced degrees to train the next generation of clinical and translational investigators. Develop Key Component Activities (KCA) that provide the necessary clinical research resources and translational technologies to create novel, clinical and translational research. Support community and academic scientists/educators to fully engage with the unique and highly diverse population of Kentucky in research, health care and medical advances to reduce chronic diseases and improve the overall health/well being of Kentuckians. Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute 505 S. Hancock Street, CTR 503 University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 Phone: 502 852-6128 Fax: 502 852-8927 Website Envirome: Envirome Institute The Envirome Institue. where health research meets the environment. The Christina Lee Brown Envirome Institute’s research unites a multidisciplinary group to turn scientific discovery into actionable knowledge that can help us to build healthier cities. Christina Lee Brown Envirome Institute 302 E. Muhammad Ali Blvd. Louisville, KY 40202 502-852-5724 Email Envirome Institute Website ERINC: Electro-Optics Research Institute and Nanotechnology Center The overriding goal of the center has been to develop a self-sustaining collaborative research enterprise in electrooptics and nanotechnology, which has and is expected to continue to: Enhance the Prestige and Visibility of UofL Research Create New Knowledge Increase the Number, Amount and Scope of Research Contracts and Grants Develop Critical Infrastructure for Advanced Research Expand and Enhance Student Educational Experiences Perform Educational Outreach and Service for the Public, Industry and the State Electro-Optics Research Institute and Nanotechnology Center Shumaker Research Building, Rm. 245, University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 Phone: (502) 852-7077 Fax: (502) 852-8128 Website INMT: Institute of Nutritional and Metabolic Therapeutics INMT's emphasis is on use of adult stem cells from bone marrow and manipulation of immune system cells to treat a variety of human diseases. We are making breakthrough discoveries in basic research and translating those discoveries to the clinic. Website IMC: Institute for Molecular Cardiology The mission of the Institute of Molecular Cardiology is to coordinate the cardiovascular research program at the U of L School of Medicine in order to facilitate collaboration and synergy among investigators, utilize our cardiovascular resources optimally and efficiently, strengthen, expand, and integrate basic and clinical research programs, facilitate rapid translation from bench to bedside, and provide institutional support to investigators engaged in cardiovascular research. Institute for Molecular Cardiology 550 South Jackson Street 3rd Floor Louisville, Kentucky 40202 Phone: 502-852-5241 Fax: 502-852-6233 Website KRSIRC: Kentucky Spinal Cord Injury Research Center The mission of the KRSIRC is to develop successful spinal cord repair strategies in the laboratory that can be taken to the clinic in a timely and responsible fashion. The Center's growth has been made possible by funding and excellent cooperation between the State of Kentucky, University of Louisville, Norton Healthcare, and a recent $5.5 million grant from NIH. KSCIRC is in a unique position to conduct research that, through our close association with our clinical colleagues in the Department of Neurological Surgery, we expect will ultimately lead to effective treatments for spinal cord injury. This goal will be facilitated by our plan to double the size and scientific impact of the Center over the next five years. Kentucky Spinal Cord Injury Research Center 511 South Floyd St., Room 616 Louisville, KY 40202 Phone: 502-852-0327 Fax: 502-852-5148 Website LoDI: Logistics and Distribution Institute LoDI is a multi-disciplinary research center dedicated to improving the practice of logistics. Several forces have converged in recent years to offer new challenges to the logistics research community, including the rise of e-commerce, innovations in robotics, advances in sensors and the Internet of Things, new crowdsourcing business models (Uber, Lyft), and a serious shortage of skilled labor. LoDI is a university-wide, multi-disciplinary research institute dedicated to finding solutions to these and other challenging problems in the field. Logistics and Distribution Institute J.B. Speed School of Engineering 132 Eastern Pkwy Louisville, KY 40292 Email LoDI Website Price: Price Institute of Surgical Research The Price Institute of Surgical Research was founded in 1957 by John W. Price Jr., MD. The Institute strives to enhance patient care through advances in surgical techniques and technology and through basic and clinical research. Price Institute of Surgical Research Department of Surgery University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 Website Trager: Trager Institute The University of Louisville Trager Institute (formerly the Institute for Sustainable Health & Optimal Aging) is driven by our mission of innovating the aging experience for individuals, community, and industry through leading-edge clinical practice, collaborative research, and inter-professional education. We are dedicated to bringing about a new vision of aging where individuals and society are able to approach aging as an opportunity. Trager Institute 300 East Market Street, Suite 200 Louisville, KY 40202 Phone: (502)-852-5629 Email Trager Institute Website Links to other information pertaining to centers and institutes Search research equipment and facilities at UofL - (Link available soon) Other Provost Approved Centers and Institutes Public Health and Information Sciences Departments and Centers Speed School of Engineering Centers and Institutes How To Establish a Center or Institute Research Infrastructure Funds - Centers/Institutes (CRIF) -- UofL Log-In Required Research Cores Laboratory Facilities Industry Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started CONTACT Ready to get started? Contact us below to start innovating: OFFICE OF RESEARCH & INNOVATION University of Louisville 300 E Market Street Louisville, Kentucky 40202 MORE INFORMATION Phone (Main) 502.852.6512, 502.852.8361 (Fax) Looking for a unit within the Office of Research and Innovation? Contact information here. Email Email Research and Innovation Service Account © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville