No images? Click here June 21, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews SRC 4th of July hours The Student Recreation Center will be closed Sunday and Monday, July 4 and 5 in observance of the 4th of July Holiday. The center will be open regular hours Saturday, July 3 and will re-open at 9:00 AM Tuesday, July 6. We hope you have a safe and happy 4th of July! HSC Fitness Center 4th of July hours The HSC Fitness Center will be closed Monday, July 5, in observance of the 4th of July holiday. The center will re-open Tuesday at 6:00 AM. We hope you enjoy a safe and happy 4th of July. Caperton Swamp Hike and Trash Cleanup Saturday, July 3, 10am–1pm Caperton Swamp 3916 River Rd, Louisville, Kentucky Summer Group Fitness classes Just because it is summer does not mean our group fitness classes have stopped. Join our instructors for a great workout! louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness/src-group-fitness Group fitness featured Class of the Week Rachel is excited to be back teaching at the SRC after a long recovery. We have definitely missed her but we know she has missed us and teaching even more! Join her Monday nights for a great Butts & Guts class from 5–5:30pm. Just a quick 30 min workout! louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness/src-group-fitness Badminton Club In the SRC The Badminton Club meets on Friday evenings in the SRC from 6–9pm on the upstairs gym floor courts. Professional instruction and open play is available in a low-key, inclusive environment. See our website for contact information. The SRC is hiring! Are you looking for a fun job this summer? You are in luck. The SRC is hiring students to become apart of the SRC Community. Stop by the SRC for an application or contact Justin Peterson via email for more info today! Q. I had a stressful time with a bad roommate last semester. What can I do to avoid this problem in the future? A. Sharing a living space can be challenging. The most essential step is to maintain communication with roommate(s). This should include communication in person, rather than written notes or group text messages. Attempt to address problems or concerns in a timely way. If you need further assistance, please reach out to your Resident Assistant (RA). RAs are there to help, and can offer further support, such as mediation, roommate agreements, and conflict coaching. There is a Student Handbook full of resources including Academic Grievance Procedure, Bad Weather Schedule, Code of Student Conduct, and so much more. Go to: http://louisville.edu/dos/students/studentpoliciesandprocedures/student-handbook CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe