No images? Click here April 18, 2022 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Student Summer Badging Program Summer 2022 (May – August) to achieve workforce skills through our technology partners’ digital badges/certificates: LinkedIn Learning, Microsoft, IBM, and Adobe, this program is open to Undergraduate and Graduate/Professional students. express.adobe.com/page/u1wf2ECU9fiOr IMPORTANT INFORMATION Help name UofL's 2021-22 Student Champions This is the last week to submit the names of those faculty and staff members who have contributed greatly to your success this year. The university president and provost will thank each person you name and send them a 2021-22 Student Champion certificate of recognition for their contributions. Think of a professor, academic advisor, program director, counselor, mentor or other figure in the Cardinal employee community who has gone above and beyond to support you. For questions, contact the Office of the Provost (provost@louisville.edu). REACH for a better financial future Commonwealth Credit Union, UofL’s official credit union, and REACH are helping students take control of their financial futures. Smart Cards is available exclusively to the UofL community and offers tools, resources and even a money personality quiz to empower you to manage your money confidently. Smart Cards: www.ccuky.org/my-campus/u-of-l/reach, Money Personality quiz: louisville.igrad.com/personality ACADEMICS Finals Countdown Exam reviews, writing assistance, stress-reducing activities, and of course...free food! UofL’s Finals Countdown has everything you need to relax, rejuvenate, and crush those final exams! Find a list of exam review sessions and events at: reach.louisville.edu/finals and get details on all events. Online info session—Master of Public Health and Information Sciences Join Dr. Brian Guinn and Bryan Mathis from the School of Public Health & Information Sciences as they share more information about the Master of Public Health program at UofL. April 20, 12 p.m., Microsoft Teams. Contact Bryan Mathis: bryan.mathis@louisville.edu for Teams link. louisville.edu/sphis/academics/mph-program Accepting applications for MS in Physiology Were you waitlisted for medical or dental school? Undergrad GPA not where it needs to be for admission? Apply for the masters program in physiology on the HSC campus. Over 80% of our graduates who apply to professional school are accepted. Deadline 7/31/22. Visit our website today for more information. Master of Science in Epidemiology Did you know UofL has the only MS in Epidemiology program in Kentucky? Students in the M.S. program will work hands on in research, data collection and management, and analysis of epidemiologic concepts and more. catalog.louisville.edu/graduate/programs-study/master-science-epidemiology WHAT'S HAPPENING Nobel laureate Nakamura to talk on LED tech Shuji Nakamura, Nobel laureate and winner of UofL’s 2019 Leigh Ann Conn Prize for Renewable Energy, is known for his light-emitting diode (LED) technology, helping create sustainable lighting worldwide. Nakamura will give a public lecture Monday, April 18, 4 p.m. at the Rauch Planetarium. events.louisville.edu/event/nobel_laureate_nakamura_talk_on_led_technology Craft & Chill Tuesday, April 19, 10 a.m.–4 p.m., Belknap Academic Building Lobby. Take a break from Finals Week and join the Student Success Center, UofL Dining, UofL Events and Catering, and the Health Promotions office by indulging in an array or relaxation activities. FREE snacks and drinks will be provided plus giveaways, crafts, and more. Divestment Rally Due to weather the Divestment Rally has been changed to April 20, noon, at the SAC Plaza in front of the Red Barn. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/organization/ssc Family Friendly Event The White Squirrel Launch Party Join us for free food and goodies. TWS contributors will read their published pieces. April 20, 5 p.m. Strickler Hall, 126, Honors Center louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/8050578 Family Friendly Event College of Business Mayoral Forum Hosted by the Louisville Independent Business Alliance, WDRB, Louisville Public Media and UofL’s College of Business. We have 8 candidates that will be participating. April 25, 5:30–7 p.m., SAC Ballroom. Admission is free, registration required. www.keeplouisvilleweird.com/MayoralForum STUDENT AFFAIRS PODCAST SERIES Disability Resource Center Be sure to check out the latest podcast from Student Affairs about UofL Disability Resource Center. Check it out here: louisville.edu/student/podcast AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Deadline approaching for Red Barn Scholarships Could you use one of two $1,700 and three $500 scholarships to be awarded for the 2022 Fall Semester through the Red Barn Programs office? You can apply for these scholarships on Engage UofL by going to louisville.edu/studentaffairs/scholarships The deadline for applications is 5:00 PM on April 25, 2022. For more information, contact: Kenny Quisenberry, 502-852-7467, kennyq@louisville.edu Seeking scholarship funds for the fall? Apply TODAY for undergraduate scholarships through the Women's Center. Criteria and applications at this link: louisville.edu/womenscenter/awards-and-scholarships/scholarships. Deadline to apply: 4/22 by 5 p.m. Email womenctr@louisville.edu for more info. SPORTS SRC summer hours of operation Summer hours of operation for the Student Recreation Center will begin Tuesday, April 26. Those hours will be weekdays 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., Saturdays 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and Sundays 1:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. Thank you in advance for your understanding and cooperation. Battle of the Bluegrass The UofL Baseball team goes head-to-head with the Wildcats from the University of Kentucky on Tuesday, April 19 at 5 p.m. at Jim Patterson Stadium. Admission is free for students. gocards.com/calendar Family Friendly Event Baseball Series Weekend The UofL Baseball team is taking on North Carolina State in a series starting Friday, April 22 at 8 pm. Game 2 is set for Saturday at 2 pm with Game 3 to follow on Sunday at 1 pm. Celebrate “Patriotic Weekend” at the ballpark with free trading cards on Friday, and Bark at the Park on Sunday. gocards.com/calendar Family Friendly Event Lacrosse Senior Day The UofL Lacrosse team will host Notre Dame this Saturday, April 23 at noon. Admission is free at UofL Lacrosse Stadium. gocards.com/calendar Family Friendly Event JOB OPPORTUNITIES HSC Fitness Center student position openings The HSC Fitness Center, located on the 1st floor of the Chestnut Street Garage on the Health Science Campus, has several student staff positions available. Priority will be given to students able to work morning to early afternoon hours. Call 852-8337 if interested. Paid Sustainable Dining & Bike Mechanic internships Got a passion for stewardship on campus? UofL’s Sustainability Council is hiring paid interns to take the lead on projects in 2022-23, working on campus 5–10 hours/week for $11/hour. Two positions are still available: Bike Mechanic, or Sustainable Dining. Open to both undergrads & grad students. louisville.edu/sustainability/education-research/internships UOFL DINING Customer Appreciation Week by UofL Dining Join us for Customer Appreciation Week 4/18–4/21. Monday - Carnival Dinner at the Ville Grill from 5pm-8pm (food, games, prizes and music) Tuesday - Walking Oreo Pies at SAC 1st floor Wednesday - Tie Dye's & Pies at Davidson Quad Thursday - Taco Bout Stress at SAC Plaza (free mini tacos) louisville.edu/dining Recipe of the Week Check out this Week's Recipe: Stroganoff Your Way! Click on the link for an amazingly simple Stroganoff recipe. ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. What sort of health-related programs are available? A. There are many health-related programs available through Health Promotion including Mindfulness training, Flash Naps on campus, Drop in meditations (OMM), REFIT fitness classes, Calm Café, HIV testing, chair massages, nutrition coaching, sexual health services, smoking cessation, yoga, and much more. For more information, visit louisville.edu/healthpromotion/, call (502) 852-5429, or email healthpromo@louisville.edu. DID YOU KNOW? If you need assistance and don't know where to go, contact the Dean of Students office at 502-852-5787 or visit the office at W301 in the SAC. ALSO, look for which campus office can help with your question or need at UofL ConcernCenter: louisville.concerncenter.com. CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe