Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Calendars Home Academic Calendars University Holidays Work-Restricted Religious Holy Days HSC Event Calendar Classroom & Event Scheduling Alumni Events UofL Event Calendar UofL Event Calendar FAQ Home / UofL Event Calendar What is the UofL Event Calendar? UofL Event Calendar Our event calendar is the central website for discovering what to do and where to go at UofL. Whether you're out and about or at your desk, you're only a click away from getting involved. Learn more View calendar Let's face it, when it comes to social events we've been a bit scattered for years. There is so much happening at UofL, but there has never been one place to discover it all. We're set to change that. This year we're launching the new UofL Event Calendar in hopes of not only showcasing the great stuff going on, but also making it easy to share. Whether you're a student looking to participate, a sports fan ready to cheer or a faculty/staff member working to get the word out about your events, we've got you covered. Explore the list of features below, visit the calendar to see more, or dive into the FAQs for a little more info. We hope you're as excited about this as we are. Let's get involved. Features ✔ Location-based Each event on the UofL Event Calendar site has an embedded Google Map to give you access to directions. Our iPhone mobile app also allows you to get walking or transit directions to your next event. ✔ Search Events, places, people Users are able to find your event from Google or the UofL search engine. ✔ Responsive design The UofL Event Calendar website adapts to a wide variety of desktop, mobile and tablet sizes to provide the best browsing experience for your devices. ✔ Personal calendars Going to several events? The UofL Event Calendar will display your personal itinerary, as well as notify you by email when you have events coming up that you're interested in. ✔ Trending events Wondering what events everyone is going to? The UofL Event Calendar keeps track of interest and will adjust popular events to show higher in the Trending Events section of the website so you're never left out of the loop. ✔ Event and venue check-in Check-in to an event or UofL venue via Facebook so that your friends and family know where to join you. ✔ Places directory You can easily check to see all of the upcoming events for a particular location, whether it's a stadium or academic building. "Follow" the place and never miss another event. ✔ Calendar widgets Put your department or group calendar on whatever website you want. The UofL Event Calendar uses a simple widget builder to customize the type and style you want, and allows you to copy/paste a script. Put the feed onto your Plone or other CMS-driven website. ✔ Language support The UofL Event Calendar fully supports international characters. Widgets also support international characters so a group or foreign language department can post their events in their preferred language. ✔ iPhone app The UofL Event Calendar, while perfectly usable on your mobile device via a browser, also offers a free iOS app for download that gives a better browsing experience. Download it today. ✔ Engage feed The UofL Event Calendar is set up to automatically gather data from Engage. For student groups already using Engage, there is no need to enter information into the UofL Event Calendar separately. Event details, photos and group information is imported for you. ✔ Easy sign-on There is no need to create a new username and password and worry about remembering it. You can sign into the UofL Event Calendar using your UofL login information. ✔ Bulk event uploading with Excel If you maintain a calendar for a group, office or department and have a large amount of events to import, not to worry. The UofL Event Calendar supports uploading in bulk. If you're interested in receiving an Excel template for the best bulk uploading experience, contact us. ✔ Social media integration After an event has been made live you will see "Publish to External Service" on the right hand side on the event's edit page. When you select Facebook this will then create a Facebook event page according to the details inputted into Localist. Users who are not creating events, but rather want to advertise that they are going, can easily share to Facebook or Twitter with a single click. ✔ Ticket/registration through Eventbrite If your event is free, but you want your users to register and you want to issue tickets, Eventbrite is a free solution with direct integration into the UofL Event Calendar. Create an event in Eventbrite, copy the registration link and place it into your UofL Event Calendar submission (there is a dedicated registration link field). When your users register, it will direct them to the Eventbrite page and will issue tickets. ✔ Digital signage support The UofL Event Calendar exports data in a format that is compatible with many types of digital signage solutions on the market. ✔ Accessible design The UofL Event Calendar is designed and built on technology that makes it accessible for all users, and complies with Section 508 guidelines. ✔ Event Newsletters The UofL Event Calendar offers the ability to send out targeted email newsletters with upcoming events for your office, department or group. Email Caitlin Brooks for more information. University of Louisville 2301 S. 3rd St. University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Contact tel (800) 334-UofL (8635) tel (502) 852-5555 Social Media Twitter Flickr Facebook Pinterest LinkedIn YouTube Quick Links About UofL Trustees UofL Foundation UofL Mission Org. Chart Accreditations © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville