[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Graduate Certificate in Structural Engineering /-/images/pages/gcstruc/2010_GC-STRU_1596x740.jpg Strengthen your professional infrastructure. cce-struc cce-struc-program-page organic http://stage.louisville.edu/online/programs/certificate-programs/structural-engineering?tab=apply Miriam Jones Online Enrollment Counselor Online Graduate Certificate in Structural Engineering The online Structural Engineering Certificate is designed for professionals with a bachelor’s in civil engineering who want to expand their working knowledge with highly-focused expertise. Offered by the J.B. Speed School at the University of Louisville, this program delivers advanced technical knowledge in structural engineering areas such as masonry design, timber design and more to make you as more skilled engineer. Taught by industry-expert faculty, this is an excellent opportunity to expand your professional credentials with less time commitment than earning a master’s degree. Overview Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid This certificate qualifies for financial aid. Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Other fees apply. Highlights Increase your marketability with a worldwide-recognized credential. Engage with the award-winning, full-time faculty from J.B. Speed School of Engineering. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes. Complete your certificate in just under a year of study. Skip the GRE – not required for admission into the certificate program. Apply certificate credits toward UofL’s online Master of Science in Civil Engineering (must apply and be admitted to the master’s program separately). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this certificate on your own time through fully online classes. Learn More 12 CREDIT HOURS Take only 4 courses to earn your SE certificate. Learn More 1 YEAR PROGRAM Earn a valuable industry-specific credential in less than a year! Program Director Dr. Zhihui Sun talks about the value of earning a specialized certificate in civil engineering—and how it can help you excel in your career. Outcomes Due mainly to the aging domestic infrastructure, civil engineering job opportunities are poised to grow 11% through 2026 (BLS.gov). With training in and education in structural engineering, civil engineers can stand out in the marketplace as they seek employment in fields such as structural, forensic structural, project management, commercial/non-residential, structural design, public works and many other areas. Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete graduate application Submit $40 non-refundable application free Submit official transcripts certifying the undergraduate degree from an accredited institution* Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree in civil engineering Minimum GPA of 2.75 Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. International Students – Additional Notes/Requirements Bachelor's degrees earned internationally must be assessed to ensure that entrance requirements are met. If you live outside of the United States and intend to complete an online academic program from your home country, be sure to view special requirements for international students. A minimum total TOEFL score of 80 or an overall IELTS minimum score of 6.5 or Duolingo English Test minimum score of 105 for all foreign students from counties in which English is not the native language. International students will not be issued a U.S. visa if admitted to the online structural transportation certificate program, since there are no campus attendance requirements. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. Start Your Application The Structural Engineering Certificate is comprised of 4 courses (3 required core courses and 1 elective) for a total of 12 credit hours. Core Options Course Hours CEE 522 Fundamentals of Prestressed Concrete 3 CEE 523 Timber Design 3 CEE 590 Current Topics in Civil Engr: Bridge Design 3 CEE 626 Masonry Design or 3 Total Required Hours 9 Elective Courses Course [choose 1] Hours CEE 523 Timber Design 3 CEE 626 Masonry Design 3 CEE 665 Pavement Design 3 CEE 694 Special Topics: Building Information Modeling 3 Explore course options in the master’s degree in civil engineering. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Overview Admissions COURSES TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link