[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Master's Degree Programs / Master of Science in Computer Science /-/images/pages/mscs/2010_MSCS_1596x740.jpg Innovation—right at your fingertips. mscs mscs-program-page organic ../../programs/masters/master-of-science-in-computer-science?tab=apply Miriam Jones Online Enrollment Counselor Online Master of Science in Computer Science The online Master of Science in Computer Science (MSCS) is designed for professionals looking to grow their computer science expertise and excel in this evolving industry. Offered by the J.B. Speed School of Engineering at the University of Louisville, the Master of Science in Computer Science program delivers timely and relevant information on key areas of importance within the industry today including databases, artificial intelligence, analytics, data mining and more. You will graduate with a deepened understanding of computer science fundamentals as well as a more informed perspective on current issues—helping you advance your career in this forward-moving industry. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Other fees apply. Highlights Apply with no GRE or GMAT scores – not required for admission! Join one of the top graduate programs in the state of Kentucky and nationwide. Use your electives to develop expertise and earn a certificate in data science or cybersecurity. Choose between a thesis-based and project-based program completion option. Transfer in 6 credit hours of graduate studies from other accredited universities, pending department review. Earn your degree in just as little as 2 years with year-round courses. Take courses 100% online, or blend your coursework with online and on-campus options. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION The J.B. Speed School of Engineering has been educating technical professionals since 1924 and features classes and research taught by internationally recognized faculty as well as state-of-the-art computer and networking laboratories. Is UofL’s online MSCS program the right one for you? The online master’s in computer science accepts students with undergraduate degrees in fields outside computer science and computer engineering. If you have a technical degree or relevant experience, and a passion for the industry, our program could be a great fit for you. Find out what prerequisites you need in order to earn your computer science degree with us. Online Graduate Computer Science Certificates Specialize your knowledge and add valuable credentials to your career portfolio by earning an online certificate while completing your master’s degree. You can also start with a certificate and move into the master’s program with ease. Graduate Certificate in Data Science (18 credit hours) Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity (12 credit hours) 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this degree on your own time through fully online coursework. Learn More 30 CREDIT HOURS 10 courses are required for completion – 5 core, 3 electives and a thesis or capstone project (6 credits). Learn More 2 GRADUATE CERTIFICATES Specialize your expertise using MSCS electives to earn a certificate in Data Science or Cybersecurity. Learn More "I started the Master of Science in Computer Science and graduate certificate in Data Science programs simultaneously. The most useful thing I learned are techniques in data mining that I never knew existed. Some different algorithms, some different ways of evaluating models and doing feature selection—which have really, really helped in my job." ADAM ROOD ONLINE MSCS STUDENT What can I do with a master’s in computer science? Computers are used in nearly every aspect of our lives today—from our mobile devices to our desktops, to large systems supporting government and for-profit organizations, to supercomputers and grids of networked processors expanding the frontiers of science and technology. As a result, it’s unsurprising that the demand for highly-trained workers in these areas is booming. Jobs for computer scientists and engineers are among the fastest growing occupations. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) reports that employment is projected to grow 11 percent from 2019 to 2029, much faster than the average for all occupations—with a projected 531,200 new jobs created. Our graduates are employed in a wide variety of environments, including computer and electronic product manufacturing, development and support businesses, academia, military, government and more. By earning UofL’s online master’s in computer science, you will gain the expertise and skills you need to take advantage of this industry growth. Gain skills in rapidly advancing technology including cloud computing, big data, and information security. You’ll also have the opportunity to specialize your master’s with an added certificate in Data Science or Cybersecurity—earned at no extra time or cost. What is the expected salary with a master’s in computer science? According to BLS, the average annual wage for computer and information technology occupations was $91,250 in May 2020, which was over double the average of $41,950 for other industry occupations in the nation. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete application for admission Submit $65 non-refundable application fee Submit official transcripts for all undergraduate and graduate work Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree in Computer Engineering/Computer Science preferred (applicants with degrees in other areas may need to complete undergraduate prerequisites before applying to the master's program) Minimum undergraduate GPA of 2.75 to be admitted in good standing (applicants with a lower GPA may obtain conditional admission) Two letters of recommendation Personal statement or resume No GRE required for admission. Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu International Students If you live outside of the United States and intend to complete an online academic program from your home country, be sure to view special requirements for international students. Online students do not qualify for US visa. Don’t have a bachelor’s degree in computer engineering/computer science? You are not alone! More than ever before, professionals with non-computer science educational background are seeking to earn computer science credentials at the graduate level for career change or advancement opportunities. The online Master of Science in Computer Science at UofL is available to applicants with a technical degree or relevant experience. Non-computer science candidates often need to complete undergraduate prerequisites before applying to the master’s program. These requirements can be completed online at UofL. Prerequisite Courses Hours CSE 130 Introduction to Programming Languages 3 CSE 310 Discrete Structures 3 CSE 503 Survey of Computer Engineering and Computer Science 3 Important Note: The actual number and type of prerequisites is determined on a case-by-case basis, based on candidate’s official transcripts and evaluation of transferable credit. Also, the length of the program will depend on the number of prerequisites needed for the completion of graduate coursework. Credit Transfer You may transfer up to six credit hours of graduate coursework from an accredited university, pending department approval. See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. Areas Courses Hours Foundations (1 course required) CSE 504 Automata Theory CSE 619 Algorithms 3 Software (2 courses required) CSE 516 Computer Networks CSE 535 Introduction to Databases CSE 545 Artificial Intelligence CSE 550 Software Engineering CSE 629 Distributed Systems CSE 630 Advanced Databases and Warehousing CSE 640 Internet Applications 6 Analytics (2 courses required) CSE 522 Evaluation of Computer Systems CSE 563 Experimental Design CSE 620 Combinatorial Optimization & Modern Heuristics CSE 622 Simulation and Modeling Discrete Systems CSE 627 Digital Image Processing CSE 632 Data Mining CSE 635 Data Mining with Linear Models 6 Electives 3 CSE Electives 9 Select Thesis Option Or Project Option Thesis Option CSE 690 MS Thesis 6 Project Option CSE 696 and CSE 5/6XX Elective 6 Total Credit Hours 30 The program requires minimum 15 credit hours of 600 level courses. Electives must be chosen so that at least one-half of the credits counted toward the degree are 600-level. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Is the GRE/GMAT required? No, this program does not require the GRE/GMAT tests. Can I do the thesis option as an online student? Yes! Online students are welcome to do the thesis option or the project option for this program. Are there career services for this program? Yes! The J.B. Speed School of Engineering offers career services for alumni and current students, including online students. For more information, please visit this webpage. My degree is not in Computer Science or a related area, can I still apply? Yes, the pre-requisites are designed as if students do not have any knowledge in Computer Science and completing the 3 pre-requisite classes will serve as a foundation for a student to be successful in this program. Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link