[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Bachelor's Degree Programs / Online Bachelor of Arts in Women’s, Gender and Sexuality Studies /-/images/pages/bawgs/2010_BAWAGS_1596x740.jpg Education. Transformation. bawgs bawgs-program-page organic ../../programs/bachelors/bachelor-of-arts-in-sociology?tab=apply Chester Morton Online Enrollment Counselor Online Bachelor of Arts in Women’s, Gender and Sexuality Studies The online degree in Women’s, Gender and Sexuality Studies is designed for professionals who want to earn their bachelor’s in order to make a positive difference in their workplace, their community and the world. Offered by the College of Arts & Sciences at the University of Louisville, this research-based liberal arts program delivers an interdisciplinary curriculum focused on understanding the social issues of diversity and social justice. The program emphasizes how gender disparities connect with poverty, racism, heterosexism and other forms of inequality, and equips graduates to develop viable solutions to those problems in their own communities. Overview Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Highlights Learn to gather and interpret information, analyze where ideas and schools of thought differ and intersect, and use language to communicate persuasively and effectively. Research, evaluate and discuss feminist studies and social justice issues such as gender roles, women/gender/race in media, poverty and more. Hone your written communication, critical thinking and research skills. Build a versatile set of skills and knowledge, for which employers around the country actively recruit. Transfer in credit from other accredited institutions or earn the entire degree at UofL. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this degree on your own time through fully online classes. Learn More 121 PROGRAM CREDIT HOURS Transfer in credit, or take general education, core and elective courses at UofL. Learn More 5/5 LGBT INCLUSIVENESS The University of Louisville received a 5/5 rating for LGBT inclusiveness through Campus Pride Index. "There’s no place, business or institution that gender doesn’t impact. This discipline allows you think in very broad contexts, and our graduates go on to such a wide variety of professions. They become lawyers, they become social workers, they work for non-profits, they go into business… There’s really not a limit to the types of things this degree prepares you for." DAWN HEINECKEN, PH.D. UOFL PROFESSOR WOMEN’S, GENDER AND SEXUALITY STUDIES Outcome An undergraduate degree in the area of women’s, gender and sexuality studies combines robust critical thinking and diversity education to equip graduates with a marketable combination of skills that are well at home in a wide range of industries. Your broadened perspective will prepare you to create a more equal and understanding workplace in a wide variety of fields including: Human resources Workplace leadership Public relations Marketing and communications Health care management Public policy advocacy Governmental agencies Non-profit entities Further, according to a study by the National Association of Colleges and Employers, hiring managers look for employees with leadership, teamwork, communication and problem-solving skills above all others. Women’s, Gender and Sexuality Studies graduates are well-prepared to meet those demands. Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May/June Applicants are encouraged to work on and submit their complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Applications submitted or completed after the preferred deadline will be considered on a case-by-case basis for the next available start/term. Steps to Apply Complete undergraduate application Submit $25 non-refundable application fee Submit official transcripts from all institutions previously attended Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Graduation from an accredited high school GED or equivalent by petition (e.g., home school educations) GPA of 2.5 or higher Completion of pre-college curriculum Composite ACT score of 20 or higher Transfer Credit Students may transfer up to 60 hours from a community college and up to 90 hours from an accredited 4-year college. Transfer applicants must have a minimum college GPA of 2.5 to be admitted in good standing. Complete the credit transfer pre-evaluation to get an idea of how many credits you'll be able to transfer in toward your UofL bachelor's degree, and visit our General Transfer Student page for more details. Are you a KCTCS student? KCTCS students can transfer completed associate degrees in their entirety and begin immediately with online upper level coursework at UofL. Visit our KCTCS Transfers Page for more information. See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. The online bachelor’s in women’s, gender and sexuality studies from UofL is a 121 credit hour program, broken down into the following curriculum components: Cardinal Core requirements – all undergraduate degrees require completion of the university-wide Cardinal Core Program (31 credit hours) Arts & Sciences programmatic requirements (13-15 credit hours) Core women’s, gender and sexuality undergraduate courses (36 credit hours) Supporting courses - minor or concentration (27-30 credit hours) Arts & Sciences Programmatic Requirements: 13-15 hours Courses Hours General 101: A&S Orientation 1 Foreign Language (completion of the second semester of a single foreign language; hours will vary depending on language taken) 9-12 Electives in Humanities, Social Sciences, or Natural Sciences at 300 level or above (in addition to courses counted toward Cardinal Core requirements) - WR - two approved courses at the 300 level or above3 - 3 May be incorporated into other degree requirements Core Program Courses: 36 hours Courses Hours Core courses: 201, 401, and 500 9 Humanities electives in WGST - select up to 3, with minimum of 1 at the 400+ level: 202, 203, 303, 325, 326, 390 (special topics), 593 (special topics) 6-9 Social Science electives - select up to 3, with minimum of 1 at the 400+ level: 313, 323, 324, 332, 343, 347, 349, 355, 364, 391(special topics), 491 (special topics), 592 6-9 Women/Gender and Race Elective – choose 2: 342, 343, 344, 346, 347, 348, 349, 380, 410, 512, 513, 540, 543, 545, 547, 582 3 Women/Gender and History Elective – choose 1: WGST 331, 332, 333, 530, 531, 532, 533, 584 (select one) 6 Additional elective at the 300-level or above 3 Supporting Courses: 27-30 Courses Hours Select either an approved A&S; minor OR a concentration. Students should consult a Women’s, Gender and Sexuality Studies advisor about minor/concentration options and how topics and independent study courses count in the major. Minor in Social Sciences discipline (including electives) 27-30 Minor in Natural Sciences discipline (including electives) 27-30 Minor in Humanities discipline (including electives) 27-30 Concentration in Social Sciences discipline (including 9 hours of Humanities or Natural Sciences electives) 27 Concentration in Natural Sciences discipline (including 9 hours of Humanities or Social Sciences electives) 27 Concentration in Humanities discipline (including 9 hours of Social Sciences or Natural Sciences electives) 27 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions What are the benefits of online learning? The biggest benefit of online learning is that you can work to earn your degree from your own home while raising a family, working full-time or experiencing particular life circumstances that make commuting to campus difficult or impossible. Online learning also gives you an opportunity to interact with a diverse group of students from different regions and backgrounds. How is the online program different than the campus program? At UofL you are taught by the same world-class faculty as our on-campus students. You read the same books, do many of the same assignments and earn the same degree. Neither your transcript nor your diploma notes your degree was completed online, only that you completed courses at the University of Louisville. The biggest difference is that you are able to do coursework on your own time and in a way that best fits your learning and lifestyle. Please note, however, that not all on-campus courses are available online. Can I receive credit for courses completed at another school? On a case-by-case basis, credit transfer is allowed from an accredited university to fulfill general education requirements. See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. I noticed that the Department of Women’s and Gender Studies offers both a Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science in Women’s and Gender Studies. Can the Bachelor of Science in Women’s and Gender Studies also be completed fully online? No, at this time only the Bachelor of Arts in Women’s and Gender Studies will be offered fully online. The research methods course required for the Bachelor of Science is not currently taught online, but we hope to be able to offer it in the future. I have never attended college (or I have earned less than 24 credits so far). Can I earn this degree online? Yes. All the courses you need to complete a full, four-year degree are available online. Are courses taught by UofL faculty? Yes, at UofL you are taught by the same world-class faculty as our on-campus students. You read the same books, do many of the same assignments and earn the same degree. The biggest difference is that you are able to do it in a way that best fits your lifestyle. Overview Admissions COURSES TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link