Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Diversity & Equity Navigation Home About Us Meet the Staff What is Diversity? National Center for Faculty Development & Diversity Annual Report About UsAbout Us Dropdown Toggle Meet the Staff What is Diversity? National Center for Faculty Development & Diversity Annual Report Diversity Education and Inclusive Excellence Diversity Training Request Critical Cardinal Conversations Social Justice Camp Inclusion and Equity Internship Program Diversity Resources Photos Diversity Education and Inclusive ExcellenceDiversity Education and Inclusive Excellence Dropdown Toggle Diversity Training Request Critical Cardinal Conversations Social Justice Camp Inclusion and Equity Internship Program Diversity Resources Photos Campus Climate Survey Diversity Policy & Planning Diversity Plan KY CPE Diversity Policy Evaluation Rubric Diversity Policy & PlanningDiversity Policy & Planning Dropdown Toggle Diversity Plan KY CPE Diversity Policy Evaluation Rubric Diversity Related Academic Programs Diversity Centers Departments & Organizations Resources Anti-Racism Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Student Resources Resources Resources Dropdown Toggle Anti-Racism Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Student Resources University Policies Cultural and Equity Center National Center for Faculty Development & Diversity Home / Resources / Anti-Racism Resources Anti-Racism Resources and Information From Dr. Faye Jones, Chief Diversity Officer: I Can’t Breathe! These three words usually convey a sense of urgency! A cry for help! A matter of life or death! If we all have that basic understanding of these words, why was it not heard? Why was the urgency conveyed in this situation not realized? Why does it feel like this scene has played out over and over in our past and now invading our present? Collectively, we need to truly hear and feel the raw emotions that so many are rightfully feeling. If we don’t heed this call to action now, it will continue to plague our future, and the future of our youth. To begin the process of transforming our community to an antiracist campus, the Office of Diversity and Equity is collecting materials to provide a central hub of resources. It is not an exhaustive list, but one that will be updated constantly as we learn of more resources. Let us consider this time to be the starting point in our push for action. We need everyone’s involvement to make long-term change. FROM OUR COMMISSIONERS: STATEMENTS FROM CAMPUS LEADERSHIP Message from President Neeli Bendapudi: JUNE 1 MESSAGE REGARDING OUR CARDINAL PRINCIPLES Messages from the Provost and Deans Provost Beth Boehm, Dean of Students Michael Mardis, and Dean of the Graduate School Paul DeMarco Dr. David Owen, College of Arts and Sciences Dr. Todd Mooradian, College of Business Dr. Toni Ganzel, School of Medicine Dr. Craig Blakely, School of Public Health and Information Sciences Dr. Amy Lingo, College of Education and Human Development Dr. Emmanuel Collins, School of Engineering Dr. Teresa Reed, School of Music Dr. Sonya Hardin, School of Nursing Dr. David Jenkins, School of Social Work Dr. Gerard Bradley, School of Dentistry The Commission on Diversity and Racial Equality The Commission on the Status of Women List of resources for members of the campus community that provide support, and to help engage and learn more about the historical legacy of slavery and racism in America. UofL Help and Support Counseling Center (including support for race-based trauma) Office of Diversity and Equity HSC Office of Diversity and Inclusion Anne Braden Institute Building the Premier Anti-Racist University Articles and other Resources *Note: These links are provided for your information only from sources external to UofL. Anti-Racism Resources Diversity,Inclusion, and Belonging 75 Things White People Can Do to for Racial Justice Showing Up for Racial Justice Louisville Showing Up for Racial Justice The Link between Racism and PTSD Buzzfeed - An Essential Reading Guide for Fighting Racism Trevor Noah’s executive summary on how it all connects (18 minute video) Maintaining professionalism in the age of Black death is a lot for students struggling to cope(read and substitute ‘employees’ with ‘students’) Black Colleagues May Look Like They’re Okay — We are not. We are mourning before, during and after our Zoom meetings. 10 Books About Race You Should Be Reading Confronting White Supremacy — Educational resource sheet compiled by instructors to discuss and dismantle white supremacy in the classroom Anti-racism Resources for White People — Resource guide compiled by Sarah Sophie Flicker and Alyssa Klein, for white people to deepen their anti-racist work Calling 911 Means Different Things To White And Black People Your Kids Aren't Too Young to Talk About Race — Comprehensive resource Rachel Cargle’s Racial Justice Research Document is a heartbreaking survey of select cases of police brutality and murder in the United States A toolkit to help foster productive conversations about race and civil disobedience Daily anti-racism work for June (broken down by time commitment) A Black Lives Matter Co-Founder Explains Why This Time Is Different Anti-Racism Resources for White People (articles, books, videos) Talking to Kids About Race Black Trauma and Showing Up at Work Recursos Antirracistas en Español 75 Things White People can do for Racial Justice Talking About Race A History of Anti-Black Racism in Medicine African American Mental Health Resources Black Emotional and Mental Health Collective (BEAM) - Group aimed at removing the barriers that Black people experience getting access to or staying connected with emotional health care and healing. They do this through education, training, advocacy and the creative arts. Black Men Heal - Limited and selective free mental health service opportunities for Black men. Black Mental Health Alliance - (410) 338-2642 - Provides information and resources and a “Find a Therapist” locator to connect with a culturally competent mental health professional. Black Mental Wellness - Provides access to evidence-based information and resources about mental health and behavioral health topics from a Black perspective, as well as training opportunities for students and professionals. Boris Lawrence Henson Foundation - BLHF has launched the COVID-19 Free Virtual Therapy Support Campaign to raise money for mental health services provided by licensed clinicians in our network. Individuals with life-changing stressors and anxiety related to the coronavirus will have the cost for up to five (5) individual sessions defrayed on a first come, first serve basis until all funds are committed or exhausted. Brother You’re on My Mind - An initiative launched by Omega Psi Phi Fraternity, Inc. and NIMHD to raise awareness of the mental health challenges associated with depression and stress that affect African American men and families. Website offers an online toolkit that provides Omega Psi Phi Fraternity chapters with the materials needed to educate fellow fraternity brothers and community members on depression and stress in African American men.< Ebony's Mental Health Resources by State - List of Black-owned and focused mental health resources by state as compiled by Ebony magazine. Henry Health - Provides culturally sensitive self-care support and teletherapy for African American men and their families. Currently in pilot program available only to residents of MD, VA and DC. Residents of other states can join their waiting list and will be notified when Henry Health is available in their state. Melanin and Mental Health - Connects individuals with culturally competent clinicians committed to serving the mental health needs of Black & Latinx/Hispanic communities. Promotes the growth and healing of diverse communities through its website, online directory and events. Ourselves Black - Provides information on promoting mental health and developing positive coping mechanisms through a podcast, online magazine and online discussion groups. POC Online Classroom - Contains readings on the importance of self care, mental health care, and healing for people of color and within activist movements. Resources related to Health Implications Health experts warn racism causes emotional and mental harm and urge medical institutions to address it Free Course Examines How Racism Affects Health Stanford Biosciences’ Centering Black Community Needs Resources for KIDS Accessible Resources for the Youth: Antiracist Baby Kwame Alexander’s the Crossover series This Book is Antiracist Books to Teach White Children and Teens How to Undo Racism and White Supremacy Coretta Scott King Book Award Winners: books for children and young adults 31 Children's books to support conversations on race, racism and resistance Young Adult Literature: Dear Martin by Nic Stone All American Boys by Jason Reynolds and Brendan Kiely I am Alfonso Jones by Tony Medina Middle Grades: A Good Kind of Trouble by Lisa Moore Ramée Ghost Boys by Jewell Parker Rhodes New Kid by Jerry Craft Resources for Parents: Raising White Kids by Jen Harvey—article here: 'Raising White Kids' Author On How White Parents Can Talk About Race Parenting Forward podcast episode ‘Five Pandemic Parenting Lessons with Cindy Wang Brandt’ Fare of the Free Child podcast Integrated Schools podcast episode “Raising White Kids with Jennifer Harvey” PBS’s Teaching Your Child About Black History Month Your Kids Aren't Too Young to Talk About Race: Resource Roundup from Pretty Good © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville