Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ News/ School of Dentistry community honors the memory of beloved alumnus, faculty member and leader Wood E. Currens School of Dentistry community honors the memory of beloved alumnus, faculty member and leader Wood E. Currens Dr. Currens received his DMD from ULSD in 1967 and then served the school for 44 years in various roles including faculty member, department chair, associate dean, and interim dean Dr. Wood E. Currens When Dr. Wood E. Currens retired from the UofL School of Dentistry in 2014, he summed up his 40-plus years at the school with this farewell message: “Over the years, one of my favorite questions to ask applicants, whether for a faculty position or a spot in the entering DMD class was, ‘What do you love?’ After God and family, the responses vary widely. My answer? The University of Louisville School of Dentistry! In saying that, I’m not referring to 129 East Broadway or 501 South Preston. Instead, I’m thinking of the people in those buildings and those who have gone through them.” Any of the people who met Currens during those years would likely say that feeling of love is mutual – which is why Woody’s death on April 3, 2022, has left a large hole in many hearts. Dr. Margaret Hill, interim dean of the School of Dentistry and one of Dr. Currens’ former students, says the depth and breadth of his impact on the school is immeasurable. “He had a magical gift in that he connected with people so genuinely,” she says. “He made deep personal connections with virtually every student who came through these doors. What a gift for an educator to be able to give – to connect with multiple generations of students.” Admissions counselor Robin Benningfield, who worked with Dr. Currens for decades, describes him as “one of the all-time greatest human beings I’ve ever known.” She says he was a joy to be around, and that “the love of teaching and dentistry just filled his heart.” Although Dr. Currens never sought the spotlight, he couldn’t escape from admiration entirely. He was named the School of Dentistry’s Alumni Fellow in 2005. In 2014, more than 250 people attended his retirement celebration. During that event, the university announced the establishment of an endowed scholarship in his honor. This fund, which is now called the Currens & Mattingly Endowed Scholarship, supports one DMD student and one Dental Hygiene student annually. More recently, Dr. Currens was recognized in July 2021 at the grand opening of the school’s new Wood E. Currens Student Success and Wellness Center. The project was made possible by a gift from 1974 School of Dentistry graduate Bob McGuinn and his family, who chose to name the center in honor of Dr. Currens. From 129 East Broadway to 501 South Preston and beyond, Dr. Currens made a lasting impact on the UofL School of Dentistry, but the real impact is on the people he met along the way. In them, Woody’s love of teaching and dentistry is a legacy that will carry on for generations. The funeral is this Thursday April 7, 2022, at 10 a.m. at Saint Luke’s Episcopal Church. The address is 1206 Maple Lane, Anchorage, KY 40223. A reception will follow immediately after the funeral from 11 a.m.-1 p.m. Burial will be at Cave Hill Cemetery at 2 p.m. More information is available in his obituary. Dr. Currens with his sisters Anne Clark and Betty Morgan. This photo was taken at his retirement celebration in 2014. View more photos from this event Dr. Currens and his wife Jennifer celebrate the opening of the Currens Student Success Center in 2021 with Dr. Margaret Hill, Dr. Bob McGuinn, and Dr. Alma Ljaljevic Tucakovic. View more photos from this event April 5, 2022 School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville