Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ Research Navigation Research Departmental Research Research Programs Research Faculty Current Studies Research Events Resources Office of Dental Research Overview News Contact Welcome to the Office of Research & Enterprise at the University of Louisville School of Dentistry (ULSD). This office coordinates all research that is being carried out at ULSD and sponsors several programs that facilitate student participation in research. Currently, the Department of Oral Immunology & Infectious Diseases is the main basic science research group in the School of Dentistry. In addition, several other departments in the school are involved in clinical research. I invite you to learn more about research at ULSD, research faculty, and the academic programs that are offered at ULSD by exploring the links on this page. Dr. David Scott Associate Dean for Research & Enterprise email me Potempa Honored as one of the Top Scientists Worldwide on 2022 Research.com Rankings April 5, 2022 Dr. Jan Potempa has been honored as one of the top scientists in the world in the 2022 Research.com rankings. The rankings are constructed using the H-index data gathered by Microsoft Academic and includes only prominent scientists with an H-index of at least 40 for scientific papers published in the field of Microbiology. In the field of Microbiology, Dr. Potempa was ranked as #103 in the United States and #206 worldwide. You can see the full world ranking at https://research.com/scientists-rankings/microbiology Diamond and Moradali Honored at UofL Research and Scholarship Awards March 30, 2022 Two researchers from the UofL School of Dentistry - Dr. Gill Diamond and Dr. Fata Moradali - were honored at the University of Louisville Research and Scholarship Awards on March 29, 2022. This was the first year for this event celebrating the impact of UofL researchers and scholars over the past year. Sandell Awarded R01 Grant for Research on Damaged Salivary Glands March 24, 2022 An R01 grant application submitted by Lisa L. Sandell, PhD, Associate Professor in the Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases, has been approved for funding by NIH. Dr. Sandell will research "Therapeutic vascularization to support repair of damaged salivary glands” (1 R01 DE030103-01A1). Moradali Awarded R03 Grant to Study Porphyromonas Gingivalis January 29, 2022 An R03 grant application submitted by Fata Moradali, PhD, Assistant Professor in the Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases, has been approved for funding by NIH/NIDCR. Dr. Moradali will research "The Control of Lipopolysaccharide Heterogeneity and Virulence by Cyclic di-AMP Signaling in Porphyromonas gingivalis” (1 R03 DE031854-01). ULSD Faculty, Students, Residents Receive Awards at Research!Louisville November 4, 2021 Award winners for the 2021 Research!Louisville event were announced during a virtual award ceremony on October 29, 2021. Award recipients from the School of Dentistry include: Madison Chumbler (mentors: Nichole Herring and Jennifer Brueckner-Collins) – Dentistry, Clinical Research Award, 1st place Pooyan Sadr Eshkevari, DDS – Senior Resident, Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery - School of Medicine Medical Resident Award Isaac Fienn (mentor: Lisa Sandell) – Dentistry, Basic Research Award, 1st place Erika Figgins (mentor: Gill Diamond) – Master’s Basic Science Graduate Award, 2nd place HeeJue Hong (mentor: David Scott) – Dentistry, Basic Research Award, 3rd place Alec McDonald (mentor: Sudha Gudhimella) – Dentistry, Basic Research Award, 2nd place Mike Metz, DMD, MSD, MS, PhD – Chair, Department of Comprehensive Dentistry – Ruth Greenberg Award for Medical Education Research, 1st place Meghan Nay (mentor: Michael Metz) – Dentistry, Clinical Research Award, 2nd place Arthur Begotti Silva (mentor: Liliana Rozo) – Dentistry, Clinical Research Award, 3rd place For more information about Research!Louisville, including a link to the award presentation slideshow, go to https://researchlouisville.org. ULSD Students, Residents Receive Awards at 2021 AADOCR Kentucky Section Meeting October 28, 2021 Students and residents representing ULSD took home several awards during last week’s meeting of the Kentucky section of the American Association for Dental, Oral, and Craniofacial Research (AADOCR). Award winners include: DMD Student Category Mina Iskander – Tobacco Enhances Bacterial-Induced Periodontal Disease in Mice (mentor: David Scott) Alec McDonald – A Novel, Nitric Oxide-Releasing Elastomeric Chain for Antimicrobial Action: Proof of Concept (mentor: Sudha Gudhimella) PhD, Resident, Grad Students, Research Staff Category Esha Mukherjee – Quality Control of In-Office 3D Printers (mentor: Gerald Grant) Erika Figgins – Therapeutic Effectiveness of Antimicrobial Peptoids against Herpes Simplex Virus-1 (mentor: Gill Diamond) Contact the Office of Dental Research Dental School, Research & Enterprise University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 501 S. Preston Street Room 260B Louisville, KY 40202 502 852-8905 david.scott@louisville.edu School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville