Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online New Cards Navigation Home I am a first-time freshman Cards Camp I am a first-time freshmanI am a first-time freshman Dropdown Toggle Cards Camp I am a transfer student Transfer/Adult Orientation - Spring 2022 Transfer/Adult Orientation - Summer/Fall 2022 Technology Requirements I am a transfer studentI am a transfer student Dropdown Toggle Transfer/Adult Orientation - Spring 2022 Transfer/Adult Orientation - Summer/Fall 2022 Technology Requirements I am a returning student Transfer & Adult Orientation Returning Student Guide Technology Requirements I am a returning studentI am a returning student Dropdown Toggle Transfer & Adult Orientation Returning Student Guide Technology Requirements I am a non-degree student Non-degree Student Guide Tuition costs/payment information I am a non-degree studentI am a non-degree student Dropdown Toggle Non-degree Student Guide Tuition costs/payment information Our Staff Become an SOSer Meet the 2022 SOSers Our StaffOur Staff Dropdown Toggle Become an SOSer Meet the 2022 SOSers Cards Camp Registration Camp Schedule What to Bring Cards Camp Staff FAQs Join the Cards Camp Team Cards Camp 2019 Photos Home / I am a first-time freshman / Cards Camp Cards Camp August 14 - 17, 2022 It's Time to Explore! What is Cards Camp? Cards Camp is a 4-day, 3-night immersive experience designed to give students a jump start on their college journey. On- and off-campus programming will include small group activities, team building exercises, and other engaging opportunities to discuss meaningful topics surrounding transitions to college life. Camp participants will connect with peers, student mentors, faculty and staff to begin building their Cardinal community. Cards Camp will begin on the University of Louisville campus, where resident students will have the opportunity to move into their residence hall early . After activities around campus on day 1 and a night in their residence hall room, campers and staff will travel to Camp Piomingo on the morning of day 2 of camp. This is a rustic camp experience and most programming will be held outdoors, with traditional summer-camp style housing in non-air conditioned cabins with twin bunks. Students will return to campus and their residence hall on Wednesday night, ready to start Welcome Week activities with the rest of the new students arriving on campus on Thursday. Cards Camp Guiding Pillars Leadership: Personal reflection Increased self-awareness Exposure to university programs, resources, and traditions Community: Connect with students and faculty in a diverse environment Build lasting relationships with peers and student mentors Engage with university faculty and staff Service: Participate in a community service project Learn about service opportunities and ways to contribute to your campus Begin learning about social issues in our community and leave with a personal plan of action Adventure: Step outside of your comfort zone Challenge yourself and support your peers Short-term immersion in a rustic camp experience with outdoor team building activities HAVE FUN! Registration Register for Cards Camp now! Log in using the email/password you used when you applied to UofL. Registrations will be accepted on a first-come, first-served basis. The registration limit is 120 total students (60 female and 60 male). Registration for Cards Camp closes on July 15, 2022! The registration fee for Cards Camp is $200, due within one week of registration submission in your New Cards Gateway. Students will be notified via email to their campus email when the fee is applied to their account. Students must already be registered for and/or attend New Cards Orientation before registering for Cards Camp. The Cards Camp registration fee includes all meals, lodging, transportation, two camp t-shirts, water bottle, and all programming materials. No refunds will be issued for cancellation of Cards Camp registrations after payment is submitted. Schedule of Events Students will move into their Residence Hall for the Fall 2022 semester and check-in to Cards Camp on the afternoon of Sunday, August 14, 2022. After hall move-in, there will be various activities on the UofL campus for the remainder of the day. On Monday morning, campers will depart campus for Camp Piomingo to begin the adventure portion of their camp experience. Cards Camp students will return to the UofL campus on Wednesday evening. View full schedule of events. What to Bring You'll be with us for 4 days. You'll need to bring some basic items for your overnight stays, as well as some optional comfort items. View packing list. Cards Camp Need-Based Scholarships Any Cards Camp registrant who applies and demonstrates a financial need by the Cards Camp Scholarship priority deadline of May 20 will be guaranteed a scholarship in the range of $25-$125. Award notifications will be made via email on May 25. Final payments for Cards Camp will be due by June 8. Any applications received after the priority deadline will be evaluated first come, first served, based on the availability of funds. Apply for a Cards Camp Need-Based Scholarship here. Meet the Cards Camp Staff We're assembling a group of Cardinal Allstars to help you have a great Cards Camp experience. Meet our team. Cards Camp Registration Camp Schedule What to Bring Cards Camp Staff FAQs Join the Cards Camp Team Cards Camp 2019 Photos © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville