[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Bachelor's Degree Programs / Online Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice /-/images/pages/bscj/2010_BSCJ_1596x740.jpg Advocate. Change. Improve. bscj bscj-program-page organic ../../programs/bachelors/bachelor-of-science-in-criminal-justice?tab=apply Chester Morton Online Enrollment Counselor Online Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice The online Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice is designed for anyone seeking a career in the legal system or looking to pursue an advanced degree in criminal justice or justice administration. Offered by the College of Arts & Sciences at the University of Louisville, the criminal justice online bachelor’s degree prepares you with working knowledge of the entire criminal justice process (adult and juvenile) and the issues surrounding each portion of the process. You will learn to be an agile professional in this ever-evolving field by developing your knowledge of current criminology theories, ethical and moral considerations, emerging policies as well as effective communications strategies. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Networks & Partnerships Your Success Team Credit How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Highlights Engage in a learning process to gain theoretical knowledge and applied skills related to the criminal justice system. Learn to apply ethical standards to decision-making practices through courses that bring contemporary topics, policies, and practices to life. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online criminal justice courses. Transfer credits from your previous education or associate degree and complete your bachelor’s degree at UofL. Build a strong foundation for further study through an online Master of Science in Criminal Justice. Learn more about how you could get college credit for experience and military training. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this degree on your own time with fully online classes and 24/7 access to learning tools. Learn More 60 CREDIT HOURS @ UofL Transfer in your associate degree and complete only 20 courses at UofL to earn your bachelor’s. Learn More $3.6mil IN RESEARCH GRANTS UofL's CJ faculty received research grants from agencies including the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. State Department. "Our goal is to provide students with a safe and quality learning experience. In the process, we hope to prepare them with the means to open the doors of opportunity-- enhancing their personal and professional lives—and empower them to be a catalyst in creating a more just society." Joseph S. Grant, Ph.D. Director of Undergraduate Studies Criminal Justice What will I learn as a B.S. in Criminal Justice student? The expertise you’ll develop as a student in the criminal justice bachelor’s program will develop your understanding of law and evidence, criminal procedure, criminal behavior, history, ethics and more. Specific expertise gained from the program will include: Broad understanding of the role and function of the police in America including the history, policing paradigms, police organizations and emerging issues in policing. Introduction to the theory, research and findings of biological, psychological and sociological studies of criminality. Awareness of the procedural aspects involved in developing and prosecuting or defending criminal cases—from investigation to arrest as well as through trial and appeal. Understanding of the principles of criminal liability as well as the legislative and judicial processes by which acts and omissions are criminalized, investigated and prosecuted. What can I do with an B.S. in Criminal Justice? Careers available to B.S. in Criminal Justice graduates can be found in the following categories: Law Enforcement ATF Conservation Officer Crime Scene Investigator Cybersecurity DEA FBI Forensics Homeland Security/Border Patrol IRS Investigator Police Officer/ Detective Private Security Sheriff State Police TSA Screener U.S. Marshal U.S. Secret Service Corrections Corrections Officer Correctional Treatment Specialist Juvenile Probation Counselor Probation & Parole Officer Substance Abuse Counselor Courts/Social Justice Court Clerk Court Referral Officers Lawyers Paralegal Policy Analyst Victim Advocate The 2019-2029 occupational outlook for police officers and detectives is expected to grow 5% nationwide, which is faster than the average national occupation growth rate and have a median annual salary of $67,290 (bls.gov). The occupational outlook for probation officers and correctional treatment specialists within the same timeframe is expected to grow 4% nationwide, which is as fast as the national average and has a median annual salary of $55,690 (bls.gov). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Priority Deadline* Term Start Date July 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May/June Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete undergraduate application Submit $25 non-refundable application fee Submit official college transcripts from an accredited institutions attended Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements High school diploma (for enrollment in lower-level coursework) Associate degree or equivalent credit from an accredited institution (for enrollment in upper-level coursework) Transfer Credit Students may transfer up to 60 hours from a community college and up to 90 hours from an accredited 4-year college. Transfer applicants must have a minimum college GPA of 2.5 to be admitted in good standing. Complete the credit transfer pre-evaluation to get an idea of how many credits you'll be able to transfer in toward your UofL bachelor's degree, and visit our General Transfer Student page for more details. Are you a KCTCS student? KCTCS students can transfer completed associate degrees in their entirety and begin immediately with online upper level coursework at UofL. Visit our KCTCS Transfers Page for more information. See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. The online Bachelor of Science in Criminal Justice requires completion of 121 credit hours. All undergraduate degrees require completion of the university-wide General Education (Cardinal Core) Program. The typical degree path for earning a bachelor’s in criminal justice at UofL includes: General Education (Cardinal Core) – 31 credit hours (minimum requirement) Arts & Sciences – 13-15 credit hours (programmatic requirement) Criminal Justice Core Courses – 54 credit hours , Criminal Justice Electives – 24 credit hours Free Electives – 21-23 credit hours Arts & Sciences Programmatic Requirements Courses Hours General 101: A&S Orientation 1 Foreign Language (completion of the second semester of a single foreign language; hours will vary depending on language taken) 6-8 Electives in Humanities or Natural Sciences at 300 level or above (in addition to courses counted toward General Education) 6 Total 13-15 CJ Courses Core Courses Hours CJ 2001 Crime and Justice in the United States 3 CJ 2011 Law Enforcement in the United States 3 CJ 2021 Corrections in the United States 3 CJ 305 Criminal Behavior 3 CJ 306 Criminal Procedure 3 CJ 325 Research Design 3 CJ 326 Quantitative Analysis (fulfills QR general education requirement) 3 CJ 360 Juvenile Justice 3 CJ 395 Criminal Law and Evidence 3 CJ 4852 Seminar in Criminal Justice 3 Criminal Justice electives3 24 Criminal Justice Total 54 Total Hours for Degree 121 1 Fulfills General Education SB requirement 2 Fulfills WR requirement 3 Criminal Justice electives must be selected from approved departmental list at the 300 level or above. A minimum of 15 hours must be in Criminal Justice, but may not exceed 30 hours START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Sample Course Descriptions College Credit for Experience Learn more about how you could get college credit for experience and military training. Student Organizations and Opportunities for Involvement Lambda Alpha Epsilon and Alpha Phi Sigma stream all of their meetings as well as their lunch and learns. Visit our website to learn of any additional new ways that you, as an online student, can be connected with our on-campus students and faculty. Partnerships/Internships The Department of Criminal Justice faculty actively engage in community service. These partnerships provide opportunities for internships and networking that enhance the student experience. Metro Louisville Government Alcohol Beverage Control Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms & Explosives Anne Braden Institute of Social Justice Center for Women and Families Administrative Office of the Courts Crime Analysis/Real Time Center Drug Enforcement Agency Department of Corrections Federal Bureau of Investigation International Service Learning Program Jefferson County Public Schools (JCPS) Advisory Board for Public Safety Kentucky Department of Criminal Justice Training Kentucky Department of Insurance Fraud Investigation Office of Homeland Security Kentucky Court of Justice Kentucky Derby Festival Kentucky State Police Louisville Metro Police Department Medical Examiners Office Public/Private Security/Loss Prevention Restorative Justice Think IR UL Police Department U.S. Marshal Service U.S. Postal Inspectors U.S. Secret Service Department Grants Our faculty has been awarded research grants totaling more than 4.5 million dollars. Granting agencies include: Vanderbilt University John Jay College Office of the Attorney General-Kentucky Kentucky Administrative Offices of the Courts DHHS Department of Homeland Security Kentucky Department of Juvenile Justice University of Maryland U.S. Department of Justice Kentucky Department of Corrections National Institute of Justice Louisville Metro Police Department Professional Organizations The faculty are active members in the following professional organizations: National Sheriff's Association Midwest Criminal Justice Association NSA-Education NSA-Cyber Security European Society of Criminology Southern Criminal Justice Association American Society of Criminology Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences American Correctional Association (ACA) International Association of Chiefs of Police (IACP) Kentucky Bar Association Louisville Bar Association Alpha Phi Sigma Society for Study of Social Problems Kentucky Council on Crime and Delinquency American Bar Association Kentucky Association of Chiefs of Police American Criminal Justice Association Featured Faculty College Credit for Basic Military Training The Department of Criminal Justice may award transfer credit for military training based on an assessment of official military transcripts. Official transcripts must be sent to the Office of Transfer Services for evaluation and then the earned hours will be applied to appropriate requirements for the BSCJ degree. College Credit for Employees at Local Law Enforcement Institutions The Department of Criminal Justice may award up to 15 hours of transfer credit for completed law enforcement/correction academy training for graduates of Louisville Metro Police Academy, Metro Louisville Corrections Academy and Kentucky State Police Academy.* Completion of other agency sponsored training may be considered on a case-by-case basis. Internship Option for Online Bachelor’s Students Newly approved for online criminal justice students, the department’s internship coordinator will work with you to identify internship opportunities in your home community. For further information, please contact us at mailcj@louisville.edu. Accelerated MSCJ Program As a criminal justice undergraduate student, you may now be eligible to pursue our accelerated Master of Science in Criminal Justice degree online. You may be able to earn up to 9 hours of graduate credit applicable toward the master’s in criminal justice degree while you’re completing your bachelor’s. For additional information please contact mailcj@louisville.edu. Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses Networks & Partnerships TEAM Credit 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link