No images? Click here August 23, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews IMPORTANT INFORMATION Mask requirement and Mask FAQs All university members are required to mask in public, indoor spaces, regardless of vaccination status. Public, indoor spaces are defined as any space inside a campus building that is not considered a private room or private office. Indoor classrooms, teaching labs, common areas, libraries, hallways, elevators and restrooms are all considered public spaces that are subject to the mask requirement. Masks should be worn over the nose and mouth. For questions, review the updated Mask FAQs or contact the Business Operations COVID Support Team. If you develop symptoms of COVID-19, you should: stay home, notify your professors, notify Campus Health (502-852-6446 or hlthoff@louisville.edu) and contact your medical provider. Read more about the quarantine and isolation protocols. If you have a question or concern about COVID-19 protocols, review the COVID-19 website, read the FAQs or call, live chat or email a helpful member of the Business Operations COVID-19 Support Team. Get vaccinated, help us reach 80% Vaccination is our best defense against the virus and its variants. All three of the vaccines available in the U.S. are safe and effective and are approved for use by the Food and Drug Association. You can text your zip code right now to 4-3-8-8-2-9 to get a quick text back with vaccine locations near you. When we reach a campus-wide vaccination rate of 80%, we plan to suspend the mask requirement. Additionally, if the CDC were to change its recommendations or the number of cases in our area were to drop significantly, that would also cause us to suspend the mask requirement. ACADEMICS With a desire and goal to provide accessibility to all students, the Disability Resource Center (119 Stevenson Hall) has implemented various helpful resources for students with documented disabilities. This includes, but is not limited to, students with ADHD/ADD, Autism Spectrum Disorder, blind/visual Impairment, learning disabilities, mental health conditions, and much more… For information regarding our services, reach out via askdrc@louisville.edu. EVENTS RSO Involvement Fairs This year's RSO Involvement Fairs will take place on August 24–26 from 11:00 am–1:00 pm, right outside of the Red Barn. This is a great opportunity to connect with student leaders and learn more about the student groups offered here at UofL! President's Ice Cream Social Come meet our President and enjoy some free ice cream with our President, Dr. Neeli Bendapudi on Wednesday, Aug 25. Ice cream will start at the Red Barn Plaza at 5:30 then move to the SRC at 6:30. Fall 2021 Student Employment Fair (In-Person) Thursday, Aug 26, 1:00 pm–4:00 pm, Student Activities Center Ballroom. The Fall 2021 Student Employment Fair is drawing dozens of local employers and on-campus recruiters and they want to hire YOU. This event is IN-PERSON. Counseling Center Ribbon Cutting and Open House Women's Equality Day and the Voting Rights Act Celebrate women's right to vote & the passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, prohibiting racial discrimination in voting. There will be vendors and a special guest speaker. Aug 31, 11am, Red Barn. louisville.edu/womenscenter/our-programs/womens-equality-day Family Friendly Event AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Reading Group Scholarships: apply now The Center for Free Enterprise will host 2 reading groups this fall & participating students are eligible for scholarships. Free books, meals, and great discussion! All majors & grade levels encouraged to apply by 8/27 at forms.gle/WWmuqBtDbx1mgJxR8. STUDY ABROAD Earn a FREE U.S. Passport Are you an in-coming freshman? Are you Pell-eligible? Need a U.S. passport? Apply to become part of a cohort that will work together with the Office of Study Abroad to apply for a US passport for FREE! Application deadline is September 3. CLUBS, GROUPS, & ORGANIZATIONS The Botanical Society first meeting September 10, 6-7PM, Belknap Academic Building, room 325. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/organization/uoflbotanicalsociety Ballroom Dance Club In the SRC The Ballroom Dance Club meets Tuesdays in the SRC, learning dances such as the foxtrot, swing, salsa, cha cha, waltz, and hustle. No experience and no partner required. A new dance is featured each month. Its a great way to meet people...come dance with us! louisville.edu/intramurals/sports-clubs SERVICE & LEADERSHIP Leadership programs The Office of Student Involvement and the Engage Lead Serve Board offer four distinct leadership development programs to fit the various needs of our students. Whether you are an incoming first-year student looking to start your college experience on a high note, or an upperclassmen looking to improve your resume and get more involved on campus. Use the QR Code for a Leadership Programs Comparison Chart. Apply on the Student Leadership Portal on Engage. WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS New SRC hours go into effect Monday Beginning Monday, August 23, the SRC will expand hours of operation. Hours will be Monday thru Thursday 6:30 AM to 11:00 PM, Fridays 6:30 AM to 10:00 PM, Saturdays 11:00 AM to 7:00 PM and Sundays 1:00 PM to 9:00 PM. We look forward to seeing you soon. @ULSRC Fall Group Fitness schedule We're ready to kick off the new school year at the SRC. Check out our Fall Group Fitness Schedule on our website. Spikeball signups Sign up for Spikeball on IMLeagues.com/louisville before August 25 at 4:30 P.M. The tournament will be held at the SRC on August 27. If you have any questions please let Kat Halbleib know. SUSTAINABILITY Garden Commons Fall Workdays Workdays are Fridays 12-1pm at the organic Garden Commons! Grow & enjoy veggies, herbs, fruit & flowers! Help harvest, weed, water & plant. Workshops: 9/3 Cool Weather Gardening; 9/17 Gardening as Resistance; 10/15 Medicinals; 10/29 Trees; 11/19 Wreathmaking. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/garden-commons-fall-workdays-fri-noon-2 Family Friendly Event EcoReps Lunch & Learn: Student Leadership Our first monthly fall workshop features student leaders from around campus facilitating conversations about student priorities for improving campus sustainability and how students can collaborate to advocate & organize. Free lunch! Fri. 8/27 noon, Ekstrom 254. louisville.edu/sustainability/operations/eco-reps/eco-reps ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. What are my rights and responsibilities as a student? A. You can view the Code of Student’s Rights and Responsibilities online athttp://louisville.edu/dos/students/studentrightsandresponsibilities. Additional responsibilities for students are outlined in the code of conduct (http://louisville.edu/dos/students/codeofconduct). The UofL Redbook details the student grievance policy and other University policies (http://louisville.edu/provost/redbook/contents.html). DID YOU KNOW? See what's happening at UofL on Social Media. Student Events can be found on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter at #ULStudentEvents and download the app CORQ to find events with free food, etc. CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe