No images? Click here March 28, 2022 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Fall & summer registration Registration for 2022 fall and summer semesters begins Monday, March 28. Check for any holds on your account so that there are no barriers. More information about your registration window can be found at: louisville.edu/registrar/registration/registration-specific/specific-registration-information/#sum-fall IMPORTANT INFORMATION Considerations for smart social media use Online habits are changing rapidly from that of a closed, private behavior to an open and sharing culture. While this may bring about positive results, it is important to be aware of the possible dangers. The University of Louisville community is committed to encouraging all persons, whether student, staff, or faculty, to accept responsibility for their personal behavior and future success. louisville.edu/dos/students/studentpoliciesandprocedures/social-media-guidelines ACADEMICS Undergraduate degree in Public Health UofL offers a BS, BA in Public Health, Pre-Health track, Social Justice & Health Equity track and an accelerated masters’ program. These degrees are perfect for students interested in pursuing careers in health promotion, health care administration, health research, and much more. catalog.louisville.edu/undergraduate/majors/public-health-ba catalog.louisville.edu/undergraduate/majors/public-health-bs WHAT'S HAPPENING MAPS charity donut sale Hello, the Multicultural Association of Prehealth Students (MAPS) is holding a donut sale to raise money for the Americana Center in Louisville. All proceeds go to Americana. The event will be held at the SAC from 11:00AM to 1:00PM on March 28 & 29. docs.google.com/document/d/1z3fsPooa5_HeQHuqKVy2BkPlAJcPcIKB26uQppoZtvo/edit?usp=sharing UofL Free Store: Free Sale Tuesday, Red Barn The student-run UofL Free Store in SAC W303C hosts pop-up Free Sales for your convenience on last Tuesdays of each month (3/29 & 4/24). Stop by the Red Barn 11:30am–1:30pm to browse the great FREE STUFF we have available for you (or drop off donations!) of clothing, shoes, accessories, etc. Snacks provided by Green Initiatives from ELSB. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/uofl-free-store-free-sale-5 Blanket Making in Kurz Hall Come volunteer making no-sew tie blankets in Kurz Hall’s first floor study hall on Wednesday, March 30, 6–8pm. Free Cupcakes. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/8010089 Family friendly event Black Student Union hip-hop dance class A hip-hop dance class will be hosted by the Black Student Union on March 31, from 6pm–8pm at the Student Recreation Center (SRC) on the 3rd floor basketball courts. RSVP on Engage. Family Friendly Event CODRE campus-wide listening session “Student voices is anyone listening?” and “Paying for School—Obstacles, Barriers and Resources” The session will be facilitated by two UofL student leaders. Wednesday, April 6, 4–6 p.m., Teams. Everyone is welcome, and we look forward to hearing your voices. Register to attend click here. STUDENT AFFAIRS PODCASTS University Housing and the Resident Experience Be sure to check out the latest podcast from Student Affairs about University Housing and the Resident Experience. Check it out here: louisville.edu/student/podcast AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Deadline approaching for Red Barn Scholarships Know of any deserving students of either a Red Barn Scholarship? The scholarships are for the 2022 Fall Semester. The deadline for applications is 5:00 PM on April 25, 2022. Available scholarships are: Florence M. Strickler Endowment Scholarships of $1,700 (2 Awarded), Dennis C. Golden Torchbearer Endowment of $500, Essie Jenkins Torchbearer Endowment of $500, Bridgette Pregliasco Torchbearer Endowment of $500. For more information and to apply go to: louisville.edu/studentaffairs/scholarships SPORTS Donuts with the Director Effective Monday, March 28, for only the 3rd time in 83 years, the Department of Intramural Sports will have a new director. Come meet our new director, Justin Peterson and enjoy a nice donut while you do. Justin will be in the SRC lobby wanting to meet you and get to know you. March 28, 8:30–9:30am. louisville.edu/intramurals SRC Yoga Pop-Up Class Join us at the SRC this Tuesday at 5pm in room 200 for a Headstand Workshop. This is guaranteed to be a fun workshop led by our amazing yoga instructor Cary. louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness/src-group-fitness Sign up for Disc Golf, Golf, and Pickleball The deadline to sign up for Disc Golf, Golf, and Pickleball is this Wednesday, March 30. Check out IMLeagues.com/louisville to sign up. If you have any questions please let Kat Halbleib know. Greek Night at Ulmer Stadium The UofL Softball team hosts Greek Night this Wednesday, March 30 at 6pm. With an attendance contest for Greek organizations, the chapter with the most in attendance wins a prize pack full of Cards goodies, and the 2022 Softball Greek Night trophy paddle. Giveaways include tank tops & free pizza. gocards.com/calendar Family friendly event Lacrosse at Cardinal Stadium The UofL Lacrosse team hosts Ohio State this Thursday, March 31 at 7pm in Cardinal Stadium. Admission is free, and free commemorative stadium cups will be provided while supplies last. gocards.com/calendar Family friendly event Men’s Tennis at home The UofL Men’s Tennis team hosts a duo of matches at Bass-Rudd Tennis Center this week. The Cards take on NC State this Friday, April 1 at 2pm before returning home Sunday, April 3 at 1pm to take on Wake Forest. Admission is free. gocards.com/calendar Family friendly event SPADdyShack Join the SPAD Association on Monday, April 11 for a Golf Scramble at ULGC. Tee off is at noon. Lunch and Dinner included. Learn more and register: cardioid-gopher-lams.squarespace.com Family friendly event JOB OPPORTUNITIES Now hiring lifeguards The University of Louisville's swimming facility is looking for hardworking individuals who are currently certified to lifeguard or desire to become lifeguards. Summer and school year hours available. Interested students should apply to Seth@gocards.com or on handshake. CAREER OPPORTUNITIES Creating a career in startups and technology Want to learn how you can translate your degree into the world of technology? Feel free to sign up for this virtual panel event on Wednesday, March 30 from 4:00–5:00pm. louisville.joinhandshake.com/events/948062/share_preview INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES Louisville Athletics Game Day internship Interested in assisting with game day promotional activities, special events, and campus engagement activities throughout the year? Apply to Louisville Athletics' 2022-2023 Marketing Game Day internship at gocards.com/joinus. Accepting applications through June 1, 2022. SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Roundtable: Habitat for Humanity Join the UofL Sustainability Council on 3/29 for our spring Sustainability Roundtable series on alternate Tuesdays 4:00–4:50pm on Teams. Our speakers on March 29 will be Leslie Woods & Bolaji Ogbulu from Louisville Habitat for Humanity. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/sustainability-roundtable-habitat-for-humanity Friday is Arbor Day Come help us celebrate Arbor Day in Kentucky on Friday, 4/1 and UofL’s status as a Tree Campus Higher Education (for 12 years running!). Join us at 10:30am at Schneider Hall (northwest side); and 1:30pm at HSC Abell Administration (Chestnut Street side) to help plant trees and take one home. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/uofl-arbor-day-celebration-2022 Family friendly event ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I need to withdraw from classes, but the withdrawal deadline has passed. What should I do? A. Each college at UofL has a process in which you may petition for a late withdrawal. Speak with your Academic Advisor or contact the Student Advocate at advocate@louisville.edu or (502) 852-5787 to discuss your options and learn about your college’s process. DID YOU KNOW? Find out about hot topics in health, emergency procedures, health promotion, and more. There is an informative website for Campus Health Services at louisville.edu/campushealth. CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe