No images? Click here July 19, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Updated international travel guidance The University of Louisville International Travel guidelines have been updated as of July 8, 2021 and go into effect for the fall 2021 semester. Read the full guidelines on the Study Abroad and International Travel website. Higher education virtual info session Did you know there are 66,000+ jobs available in higher education? If you want to work in the higher education field, attend the August 03, 2021 virtual info session on the UofL Master of Art in Higher Ed Admin webpage. Kickoff is 11:30am. And no GRE required. Exciting news from UPS UPS has just increased their starting wage to $18.50/hour for night shift package handlers and administrative assistants! Metro College students are eligible for this benefit as well! So you could get 100% tuition paid and make a great amount of $$$ while working a PartTime job at UPS Worldport! They've also just upped the pay for the day shift to $16.50/hour! You are eligible for a $50 attendance bonus on both sorts if you work the Sunday shift as well. Applicants can apply now at UPSJobsKY.com and also reach out to Nico Casper at dcasper@ups.com or txt/call 502-398-1649 for any questions or details. Who wants to play in a kickball league? This year instead of a one day kickball tournament, the IM Department will be hosting a kickball league. All league play will take place at the IM Field/SGA Field. If you are interested in playing sign up on IMLeagues.com/louisville Fencing Club In the SRC The Fencing Club offers high-level instruction in all disciplines of the sport. Educational sessions are conducted in supervised, structured, and safe conditions. Practices are held on Monday and Wednesday evenings, and Saturday mornings in the SRC. louisville.edu/intramurals/sports-clubs SRC Group Fitness summer schedule There is only a few weeks left in the summer to join our Group Fitness at the SRC for a variety of different classes. Our schedule has been adjusted one last time, so make sure to visit the website so you won't miss those classes. Pollinator Garden Workday July 17, 8–10 a.m., Harriet A. Korfhage Native Plant Garden next to Life Sciences building. Sign-up here. Q. I would like to file for a meal plan waiver. How do I do this? A. For more information on the meal plan and the waiver process, visit https://louisville.edu/dos/students/studentpoliciesandprocedures/meal-plan-waiver. UofL offers a wide range of scholarships, grants, loans and work-study opportunities to help you pay for your education. Go to: louisville.edu/admissions/aid CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe