[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Graduate Certificate in Data Science /-/images/pages/gcds/2010_GC-DS_1596x740.jpg Big data. Big future. gcdm gcdm-program-page organic ../../programs/certificate-programs/graduate-certificate-in-data-science?tab=apply Miriam Jones Online Enrollment Counselor Online Data Science Certificate The online graduate certificate in Data Science is designed for professionals with a background in computer science, who want to enrich their expertise in this important field. Offered by the J.B. Speed School of Engineering at the University of Louisville, the Data Science Certificate delivers comprehensive knowledge and skills through just 6 intensive courses. Developed collaboratively by UofL’s Department of Computer Science in Engineering (CSE) and Department of Mathematics, this program prepares you to meet the growing demand for trained data scientists in today’s technology-driven world. Overview Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid This certificate qualifies for financial aid. Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Other fees apply Highlights Expand your knowledge in important data science areas like data mining, artificial intelligence, big data and more. Gain the right credentials to help advance your career as a data scientist. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes. Skip the GRE – not required for admission into the certificate program. Roll your certificate credits (18 hours) into UofL’s online Master of Science in Computer Science (must apply to the master’s program separately). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this certificate on your own time through fully online classes. Learn More 18 CREDIT HOURS Expand your Data Science expertise in only 6 courses. Learn More 1 YEAR PROGRAM Earn a valuable credential in as little as 12 months! "While I had a lot of experience in data analysis and reporting, I lacked the formal training of a Data Scientist. I decided to [earn] the Data Science certificate because I wanted to learn the most cutting edge skills. I've always liked working with numbers, and I've always been fascinated by data science—and the more and more I get into it, the more interesting things I want to do." ADAM ROOD ONLINE CSE STUDENT Outcomes Data scientists are specialists in finding hidden connections in large masses of stored data, and are critical to industries including insurance, health care, retail, education, banking, manufacturing, pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, travel, government and intelligence. In today's economy, organizations across all industries, can reap the enormous payoffs of data science. Graduates of this program are well suited to apply their credentials to various fields and may obtain positions as: Business Analysts Data Analysts Database and Direct Marketers Financial Managers IT Professionals Marketing and Sales Managers Project Managers Statisticians Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. Steps to Apply Complete graduate application Submit $40 non-refundable application free Submit official transcripts certifying an undergraduate degree earned from an accredited institution* Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree in a technically related field Minimum GPA of 2.75 or above Successful completion of college algebra and introductory statistics courses Experience and knowledge in computing, database and statistical software such as MatLab, SQL or other advanced packages Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. International Students – Additional Notes/Requirements Bachelor's degrees earned internationally must be assessed to ensure that entrance requirements are met. If you live outside of the United States and intend to complete an online academic program from your home country, be sure to view special requirements for international students. A minimum total TOEFL score of 80 or an overall IELTS minimum score of 6.5 or Duolingo English Test minimum score of 105 for all foreign students from counties in which English is not the native language. International students will not be issued a U.S. visa if admitted to the online structural transportation certificate program, since there are no campus attendance requirements. The online graduate Data Science Certificate is an 18 credit hour program that requires 9 credit hours in core courses and 9 credit hours in electives. You will have the option of choosing any three of the electives listed below, specializing your certificate to match your interests or career goals. Core Courses Course [required] Hours CSE 535 Database Systems or CSE 536 Data Management and Analysis 3 CSE 632 Data Mining 3 CSE 635 Data Mining with Linear Models 3 Total Required Hours 9 Electives Courses Course [choose 3] Hours CSE 522 Performance Evaluation of Computer Systems 3 CSE 545 Artificial Intelligence 3 CSE/IE 563 Experimental Design in Engineering 3 CSE 590 Python & Data Analytics 3 CSE 590 Introduction to Machine Learning 3 CSE 590 Deep Learning Algorithms & Methods 3 CSE 619 Design and Analysis of Computer Algorithms 3 CSE 621 Web Mining for E-Commerce 3 CSE 622 Simulation and Modeling of Discrete Systems 3 CSE 627 Digital Image Processing 3 CSE 630 Advanced Databases and Data Warehousing 3 CSE 660 Introduction to Bioinformatics 3 CSE 694 Special Topics in Data Mining: Legal Issues in Data Mining 3 CSE 694 Special Topics in Data Mining: BIG DATA: Document-oriented DB 3 MATH 560 Statistical Data Analysis 3 MATH 561 Probability 3 MATH 562 Mathematical Statistics 3 MATH 667 Statistical Inference 3 Total Required Hours 9 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Learn from the best! The faculty at the University of Louisville are leaders in the field of Data Science, Data Warehousing, and Data Analysis. Their expertise spans the use of text, web, numerical, and image databases. They have worked in application areas such as medical, e-commerce, security, military, institutional, and financial research. Our faculty have authored or contributed to textbooks and professional publications and have received research awards from the National Science Foundation (NSF), National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), National Institutes of Health (NIH), and Department of Defense (DoD). Overview Admissions COURSES TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link