Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ Giving Navigation Giving Give Now Impact Report Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Why Giving Matters Each year, many alumni and friends of the University of Louisville School of Dentistry choose to support the ongoing growth and success of the institution through philanthropic support. As the oldest dental school west of the Alleghany Mountains, the University of Louisville School of Dentistry benefits from a 128-year legacy of training experts in oral care. Since our inception, our students have continued a tradition of providing a helping hand to those who follow after, as each year our new class of incoming students receives scholarship support. Private donations have renovated our facility, kept our equipment up-to-date, and provided funds to enhance the student and resident experience. Today, there are over 6,000 living alumni of the School of Dentistry. Many give back to support today’s students, assisting tomorrow’s oral care leaders as they once benefited. Others give to support the future of their profession, or honor a beloved mentor who played a significant role in their lives. Corporations and foundations give to stimulate research or enhance the delivery of care. Regardless of motivation, we need your support. To make your gift now you can visit the University of Louisville online giving page. State budget cuts have had a major impact on the School of Dentistry over the last twelve years. Our ability to maintain the highest standards in academic and clinical training and to stay competitive with the best institutions in the world depends on the support of our family and friends. As you browse through these pages, we hope you will learn more about the impact you may have on the School of Dentistry through your generosity. You will find stories of those who are making a difference, and you will learn about the many ways and methods you can enhance our efforts. Now, more than ever, your gift matters. School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville