Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of the Provost Navigation Home Who We Are What We Do Faculty Affairs Searches FacultyFMLRequestFormSelf14Oct2019.docx FacultyFMLFamilyMember.docx Faculty AffairsFaculty Affairs Dropdown Toggle Searches FacultyFMLRequestFormSelf14Oct2019.docx FacultyFMLFamilyMember.docx International Travel Policies Redbook Redbook Table of Contents Redbook Addenda RedbookRedbook Dropdown Toggle Redbook Table of Contents Redbook Addenda Strategic Planning Undergraduate Research Posters-at-the-Capitol Summer Research Opportunity Program (SROP) Undergraduate Arts & Research Showcase Undergraduate ResearchUndergraduate Research Dropdown Toggle Posters-at-the-Capitol Summer Research Opportunity Program (SROP) Undergraduate Arts & Research Showcase Who We Are The University of Louisville is a metropolitan research university with nearly 22,000 students. The Office of the Executive Vice President and University Provost is dedicated to providing a quality undergraduate, graduate and professional experience in the classroom and in all aspects of student life. Gerry Bradley Interim Executive Vice President and University Provost The executive vice president and university provost (PDF) manages both the day-to-day and long-term academic operation of the university. This office provides leadership for the academic affairs of the university. The executive vice president and university provost not only is responsible for setting the university’s course, through collaboration with faculty, staff and students, but also is charged with assuring that it stays on course. The executive vice president and university provost is an advisor to the university president and acts as president during presidential absences. Related links Academic Units Gail DePuy Vice Provost, Assessment and University Decision Support/Analytics Gail DePuy, Ph.D.,P.E., is the interim senior vice provost of the University of Louisville. In her role, Dr. DePuy works in partnership with the provost to oversee all academic programs and services across the university. Dr. DePuy also serves as interim vice provost for engaged learning and as special assistant to the president for strategic plan implementation. Dr. DePuy is a professional engineer and professor of Industrial Engineering. She was previously the associate dean of academic and student affairs for the J.B. Speed School of Engineering from 2015-2021 and she served as interim dean of the Speed School from 2017-2018. Dr. Depuy received her Ph.D. in industrial and systems engineering from The Georgia Institute of Technology, her M.S.I.E. from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, and her B.S. in industrial engineering from North Carolina State University. Dr. DePuy has authored over 80 technical papers and has served as Principal Investigator or Co-Principal Investigator on over 2 million dollars of funded research. Gail DePuy CV (PDF) Robert (Bob) S. Goldstein Vice Provost, Assessment and University Decision Support/Analytics Robert (Bob) S. Goldstein, the Vice Provost for Assessment and University Decision Support/Analytics leads the Office of Academic Planning and Accountability (OAPA), which consists of three reporting units: Institutional Research and Planning (IRP), Institutional Effectiveness (IE), and Accreditation and Academic Planning (AAP). Direct responsibilities support several key university-wide functions, including institutional research, data analytics and visualization, strategic planning, and institutional effectiveness. The Vice Provost is also responsible for all matters concerning institutional accreditation (Southern Association of Colleges and Schools, Commission of Colleges [SACSCOC]), program-level accreditation, academic program approval and review, educational affiliations, centers and institutes, tuition reciprocity, and the academic common market. The position also serves as the university liaison to the Kentucky Council on Postsecondary Education (CPE) on academic-specific data matters. Goldstein oversees Academic Planning and Accountability Academic Programs Approval and Review Accreditation Centers and Institutes Institutional Effectiveness Institutional Research and Planning James Begany Vice Provost or Enrollment Management Vice Provost James Begany has the overall strategic and tactical responsibility for undergraduate recruitment, retention, advising practice, and collaboration with academic unit-based advisors and academic support programs. This individual directs a staff of about 130 in Admissions, Enrollment Management, REACH (Resources for Academic Achievement - the university-wide academic success resource center), Registrar, Student Financial Aid, and Student Success Center, and works regularly with about 65 professional advisors who report to the deans of the schools and colleges. Cherie Dawson-Edwards Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs Cherie Dawson-Edwards, the Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs, works with the provost and academic deans to oversee all faculty personnel actions and to provide faculty and administrator professional development programs. Personnel transition services include coordinating and advising related to the university's promotion and tenure process; and assisting deans, department chairs and faculty with issues associated with hiring, retention, reviews, and sabbatical and medical leaves. The office offers an annual academic leadership program for department chairs and other administrative leaders. The office offers an orientation program for new faculty and deans, and a year-long new faculty professional development program. In addition, the office facilitates the nomination process for national and internal awards and recognition. The Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs serves as the provost's liaison to the Faculty Senate, and serves in an ex officio capacity on administrative searches and reviews. The Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs partners with the Vice Provost for Diversity and International Affairs to develop strategies for enhancing faculty diversity and inclusiveness. This post oversees Faculty Affairs Faculty Appointment Faculty Grievances and Disputes Faculty Mediation Policy and Procedure (pdf) Faculty Personnel Review Minimum Guidelines Faculty Credentials (SACS) Faculty Handbook REDBOOK Beth Boehm Vice Provost for Graduate Affairs Beth Boehm, the vice provost for graduate affairs, serves as the provost’s liaison to the Office of the Dean of the Graduate School, which provides university-wide service and support for graduate degrees, academic success and programs that complement the curriculum. The vice provost for graduate affairs serves as the provost’s liaison to the Graduate Council (faculty), the Graduate Student Council, the deans and the academic unit faculties, academic advisers and academic support programs to promote graduate student success, engagement and satisfaction at the University of Louisville. Boehm oversees Graduate School Rehan Khan Vice President and CIO Rehan Khan, provides vison and leadership for the effective use of current and emerging technologies in support of academic, research, patient care and public service missions. By aligning technology resources and service delivery, he enables enhanced customer experiences, personalization and digital transformation. His expertise in managing innovativee orgranizations, partnering with businesses, and developing technology strategic plans allows him to promote collaboration and cooperation among all constituents within a complex university environment. Mr. Khan has worked at coroprate and non-profit organizations with domain expertise in higher education technology planning and administration. Related links Information Technology James Michael Mardis Vice Provost and Dean of Students James Michael Mardis, the Vice Provost and Dean of Students, is the chief student affairs officer for the University of Louisville, overseeing the areas of Campus Housing, Career Services, Counseling, Disabilities, Student Support Services (Grant), Student Involvement, Recreational Sports, Student Activities Center, Student Government, Fraternity and Sorority Life, Student Rights and Responsibilities, Dean of Students Office, Off-Campus Student Programs, Service and International Service Learning, Assessment & Planning, Student Grievance, and Student Advocacy. Marie Kendall Brown & Kristen Brown Vice Provost of Teaching and Learning Marie Kendall Brown & Kristen Brown, the vice provosts for Teaching and Learning, have the following responsibilities: Provide oversight for the SACS QEP. Assist units with putting entire academic programs online. Provide training and faculty development for faculty members putting courses online. Provide support for the learning management system, Blackboard, so that it is an effective system in which faculty teach their online classes. Provide faculty development opportunities for faculty teaching face to face classes. Schedule meetings and conferences on Shelby Campus using both the Founders Union building and Burhans Hall. Provide professional development opportunities to both Greater Louisville businesses as well as the university community. Facilitate marketing plans for all of the units in the Delphi Center to adequately inform others of the opportunities available through the Delphi Center. Provide fiscal oversight of the entire budget for this organization. Beth Willey Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education Undergraduate affairs provides university-wide service and support for undergraduate programs and policies, general education (assessment and curriculum), academic policies and program review. The office works with the deans on undergraduate issues of all types, including retention, LLCs, and the summer bridge program. The vice provost also serves as liaison to the Kentucky Council on Postsecondary Education for undergraduate issues. Beth Willey CV (PDF) International Affairs International center © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville