[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Master's Degree Programs / Online Master of Science in Health Data Analytics /-/images/pages/mshda/2010_MSHDA_1596x740.jpg Turn data into action. mshda mshda-program-page organic ../../programs/masters/master-of-science-in-health-data-analytics?tab=apply Erin Elrod Online Enrollment Counselor Online Master of Science in Health Data Analytics The online Master of Science in Health Data Analytics is designed for professionals who want to start or build a career that advances the healthcare industry through data-driven actions and decisions. Offered by the School of Public Health and Information Sciences at the University of Louisville (UofL), the online master’s in Health Data Analytics is designed to teach students how to leverage data, models, analytics methods and tools to solve challenges within the healthcare industry. Our graduates learn to combine healthcare tools and data analysis with patient care and service to form a unique perspective and develop actionable procedures for implementation and evaluation. Overview Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Highlights Join a reputable graduate program from a top Public Health school (Ranked by U.S. News & World Report, 2020) Gain expertise and highly marketable skills in a rapidly growing field Prepare for the Certified Health Data Analyst (CHDA) Examination Learn from world-class faculty with extensive applied experience Complete your degree in as little as 3 semesters; extended part-time option also available Take advantage of the convenience of 100% online classes Access courses and resources anytime, anywhere START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this degree on your own time through fully online classes. Learn More 33 CREDIT HOURS Complete just 9 core courses, 1 CHDA prep course and a practicum in your local community to earn your health data analytics master's degree. Learn More 1 PRACTICUM Complete at any healthcare-focused data analytics organization in your local area. Learn More "Graduates of the online health data analytics program will be prepared for careers as health care analytics consultants, big data scientists, clinical analysts, analytics managers, professional services, along with positions in IT, finance and insurance." DR. BERT LITTLE PROGRAM DIRECTOR M.S. IN HEALTH DATA ANALYTICS LEARN MORE Outcomes A Master of Science in Health Data Analytics from UofL prepares students for a wide variety of career paths within the healthcare industry and beyond. They may choose to pursue jobs such as: Chief Information Officer Chief Population Health Officer Clinical Data Manager Corporate Strategy Manager Health Analytics Specialist Health Informatics/Data Consultant Healthcare Data Analyst Implementation Specialist Preferred Application Deadline Term Start May 15 Priority Deadline for scholarships/internships* for Fall & Spring August July 1 Fall August November 1 Spring January *Contact Dr. Giang Truong Vu for more Information about department scholarships and internships. Application deadlines have been extended to June 15. Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Completed Graduate Application Submit $65 non-refundable application fee Submit GRE Quantitative and Verbal section scores* Submit current curriculum vitae (CV) Submit statement of goals (i.e., general research interests) Submit official transcripts of all undergraduate and graduate work from accredited institutions – have transcripts sent directly to UofL. Check for Scholarships *GRE scores may be waived only in cases where other academic credentials establish the ability to succeed in the curriculum, as determined by the program director. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements The M.S. in Health Data Analytics is available to students who have completed an undergraduate degree in biostatistics, statistics, mathematics, computer science or a related discipline. Applicants must also have competency in statistics and regression analysis, as evidenced by transcripts from postsecondary institutions. College-level calculus is strongly encouraged. Bachelor’s degree Must be in biostatistics, statistics, mathematics, computer science or a related quantitative discipline Competency in statistics and regression analysis; recommend also college-level calculus 2 letters of recommendation written within past 12 months Recommended minimum GPA of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale Successful admission interviews with the HMSS Health Leadership Committee International Students – Additional Notes/Requirements The Health Data Analytics master’s program is open to international students. Additional requirements apply. All transcripts not in English must be certified as authentic and translated verbatim in English. Students whose primary language is not English must show English language proficiency by attaining one of the following: Total score of 90 or higher on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) Internet-based test or 6.5 or higher on the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) or 105 or higher on the Duolingo English score, OR Successful completion of the exit examination for the advanced level of the Intensive English as a Second Language Program (IESL) at the University of Louisville, OR Demonstration of a degree award from an acceptable English language institution International students will not be issued a U.S. visa if admitted to an online program, since there are no campus attendance requirements. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselors at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. Start Your Application The online Master of Science in Health Data Analytics is a 33-credit hour program that requires: 27 credit hours in core courses 3 credit hours of practicum in a real-world data analytics program at an organization of choice 3 credit hours of capstone course preparation for the Certified Health Data Analyst (CHDA) examination To graduate, students must have an overall 3.0 GPA in coursework. A part-time degree path is also available. Full-Time Degree Path Course Title Credit Hours Semester I PHPH 523 Public Health in the U.S. [3] PHST 620 Introduction to Statistical Computing 3 PHST 680 Biostatistical Methods I 3 PHMS 644 Biomedical Foundation for Health Data Analytics 3 Semester Total 9 [12] Semester II PHMS 670 Statistical Data Management 3 PHMS 641 Data Mining I 3 PHMS 638 Data Security & Electronic Health Records 3 PHMS 639 Health Data Analytics Practicum 3 Semester Total 12 Semester III PHMS 671 Statistical Analysis for Population Health 3 PHMS 643 Data Management In Health Service Research 3 PHMS 642 Data Mining II 3 PHMS 637 MSHDA Capstone Course 3 Semester Total 12 DEGREE TOTAL 33 Part-Time Degree Path Part-time students must be cognizant that courses are offered on an alternating basis, usually every two years. Thus, part-time students must pursue the recommended course sequence for analytics courses because courses build upon skills acquired in prior courses. Students enrolled in the part-time option are able to complete their degree in 48 months or less if they take 6 credits per semester and plan their degree path to meet the following course sequence. Note: courses other than the quantitative ones may be taken in any order, throughout the duration of the program. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions What GPA do I need to enter the program? There is no required GPA for admission into the Master of Science in Health Data Analytics program. However, students in the program will need to maintain a 3.0 to graduate. Grades in previously taken courses relevant to the degree (math, statistics, etc.) will be a strong indication of student success in this program. What GRE score do I need to be accepted into the program? While there’s no minimum GRE to apply to the program, a strong quantitative background is recommended. Therefore, successful students will typically score above the 40th percentile in the quantitative reasoning section of the test. What is the Certified Health Data Analyst (CHDA) Examination? In addition to receiving your master’s degree, the CHDA certification from the American Health Information Management Association boosts your professional credentials and reputation as a health data expert. Completing your master’s program with UofL will effectively prepare you to sit for this exam, but it is by no means a requirement for graduating from the program. Where and when will I complete the Practicum component of the program? The practicum is an exciting component of the program that allows you to get hands-on learning experience in the health data analytics field. The practicum will be completed at a location of your choice, within your local community (note: you can complete your practicum with your current employer, but the work completed cannot be part of your day-to-day job tasks). Full-time students will complete the practicum during the summer between their first and second year in the program (part-time students should speak with an enrollment counselor for more information). How does this program differ from the online Master of Science in Biostatistics program also offered from the College of Public Health? Health Data Analytics and Biostatistics are both viable degree options for a career in healthcare data information analysis. At their core, both programs deal with analysis and interpretation of healthcare data with innovative tools like machine learning, artificial intelligence and analytics. The differences are in how the data is manipulated, structured, and analyzed. Biostatisticians will typically work with clean data sets, looking for answers to specific, targeted questions related directly to the research project. Data Analysts take a broader look and are typically responsible for data cleansing and preparation. Data analysts analyze information to explore connections and insights that might not yet be identified. In other words, Biostatistics is a more theory-based, whereas Health Data Analytics includes ‘data wrangling’ and looks at population level health and outcomes. Can I transfer graduate-level credits from another university? You can transfer up to six credit hours from another regionally accredited university. However, to be accepted, the content in the courses you have completed must closely match the required courses for the master’s in Health Data Analytics at UofL. The program will consider your transfer coursework when you submit your application. Overview Admissions Courses TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link