No images? Click here August 16, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Welcome back CARDS! And welcome new CARDS! IMPORTANT INFORMATION COVID-19 protocols and expectations All university members are required to mask in public, indoor spaces, regardless of vaccination status. Unvaccinated university members are required to get tested regularly starting Aug. 17. For the full schedule of required testing periods, visit the Testing Program section of the COVID-19 website. Get vaccinated now to avoid the hassle of required testing. Submit your out-of-state COVID-19 vaccination record if you were vaccinated outside the state of Kentucky. Campus Health Services only has access to the Kentucky immunization registry. Please follow these instructions to upload your out-of-state COVID-19 vaccination documentation to the university's secure health portal. Read the Fall 2021 Student Acknowledgement at the top of the Student Affairs website. By coming to campus this fall, you acknowledge that you are aware of UofL's health and safety protocols and your individual responsibilities. Welcome Week We are thrilled to soon start the fall 2021 semester with in-person classes and activities. The on-campus experience is a vibrant and exciting part of being a Cardinal. If you’re a first-year or second-year student, we hope you attend Welcome Week events to kick-start your year with vital connections and fun activities. Welcome Week 2021 Get ready to make some of the best friends and memories of your UofL experience! Welcome Week is an exciting series of events and activities that help first year, commuter, transfer and returning students get the fall semester started off right. This time will help you meet tons of new and upperclass students and make UofL your new home, all while enjoying an almost endless supply of free food and prizes. We'll see you Aug. 18–22. Download the UofL New Cards App Be sure to download the UofL New Cards app (available in the App Store or Google Play) to get your personalized schedule, real-time event updates, campus maps and more! To access the Welcome Week 2021 schedule, open the app and log in with your UofL credentials. Click the menu bar on the left-hand side, and click “Guides.” View “All Guides” and select the “Welcome Week” guide. Click “Add Guide” then add events that interest you to your schedule! Questions? Email our Welcome Week Team. EVENTS Student Involvement There is an expectation that students become meaningfully involved here at UofL. Involved students are more likely to get better grades, make friends, organize their time better, manage their stress more effectively and most importantly—graduate! Getting involved also helps prepare you for your career and enables you to enjoy the Cardinal experience to the absolute fullest! Learn more about student involvement through the Office of Student Involvement website or stop by SAC W310 to begin exploring. RSO Involvement Fairs This year's RSO Involvement Fairs will take place on August 24–26 from 11:00 am–1:00 pm, right outside of the Red Barn. This is a great opportunity to connect with student leaders and learn more about the student groups offered here at UofL! ACADEMICS What do you want to do with your life? ECPY 302 is a 3-credit elective allowing for exploration of personal and professional interests while completing projects related to the class topic. Learn about the course and see what others have said about its impact: louisville.edu/findyourfit Awards & Scholarships Nichols Award for Graduate Students Graduate and professional school students are encouraged to apply for the 2021 Dr. M. Celeste Nichols Award to support academic and professional enrichment beyond normal program expenses. louisville.edu/womenscenter/awards-and-scholarships/awards CLUBS, GROUPS, & ORGANIZATIONS Greek Life Recruitment Join some of the most involved students on campus during the Fraternity and Sorority Life Welcome Week events on Sunday August 22 including Popsicles with Panhellenic ar 11:30 AM, IFC Informational at 12:45 PM and NPHC 411 ar 2PM all located in the Student Activites Center W116/W117. Get to know about our 33 Greek organizaitons on campus as recruitment is starting! Panhellenic Recruitment is 8/25–8/29 and IFC is 8/30–9/2! For more information visit https://louisville.edu/involvement/fsl WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS SRC fall hours of operation Beginning Monday, August 23, the SRC will expand hours of operation. Hours will be Monday thru Thursday 6:30 AM to 11:00 PM, Fridays 6:30 AM to 10:00 PM, Saturdays 11:00 AM to 7:00 PM and Sundays 1:00 PM to 9:00 PM. We look forward to seeing you soon. @ULSRC HSC Fitness Center closed Tuesday The HSC Fitness Center will be closed Tuesday, August 17 so staff may attend an all day training. The center will be open Monday and will re-open Wednesday morning at 6:00 AM. Thank you in advance for your understanding. Intramural Sports Programs Intramural Sports is a great place to get connected to the UofL. Leagues, tournaments, fitness opportunities, clubs and informal recreation are all there for you. A sport for everyone and everyone in a sport. Stop by our office in the SRC for more information. louisville.edu/intramurals Sign-up for the annual swim meet event The Intramural Department hosts its annual Swim Meet event at the Natatorium each year in November. It is free to sign up! If you love swimming and aren't participating in college sign up on IMLeagues.com.louisville Martial Arts in the SRC Kempo Karate and Aikido have resumed practicing in the SRC. No experience or aptitude required, with professional instruction from certified teachers in a controlled, safe environment. Check our website for schedules and practice times. SUSTAINABILITY Save on parking & fuel costs this year Use meters/pay lots on days you must drive & try explore options to $ave, stay fit & protect the planet at directions.louisville.edu: 1) TARC is free with UofL ID. 2) Find/offer rides with Cardinal Directions. 3) UofL Bikeshare is free & LouVelo is half-price. Garden Commons Salsa Party, Thursday 3pm Stop by UofL's organic, student-run Garden Commons (southwest corner of Strickler Hall) to sample some of the delicious fresh produce we've grown together over the summer! Discover how you can get involved and learn how to grow your own food on campus! louisville.edu/sustainability Free Sale Friday! Aug. 20, 5-7pm, Clocktower A pop-up shop where everything is FREE! The Cardinal Cupboard is our campus food pantry and the Free Store is a free campus thrift store. These student-run services are available in the SAC to help keep stuff out of the landfill while lowering your bills. louisville.edu/sustainability Louisville Sustainability Bike Tour 8/21, 2pm Meet at the SRC and take a fun Saturday afternoon bike ride with the Student Cycling Coalition and UofL Sustainability Council! Explore the city through the lens of eco-stewardship & social justice. Don’t have a bike? Free UofL Bikeshare or LouVelo available. louisville.edu/sustainability ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I have a disability. How do I get accommodations for my classes? A. The Disability Resource Center works with students with a wide range of disabilities, including, but not limited to ADHD, autism, visual impairment, deaf or hard of hearing, learning disabilities, mobility impairment, psychology disabilities, and temporary disabilities. Contact the DRC for more information. Email askdrc@louisville.edu, call (502) 852-6938, or visit the DRC’s website at http://louisville.edu/disability. DID YOU KNOW? Campus maps are available online at http://louisville.edu/about/campuses.html and there is a parking map at https://louisville.edu/parking/campus-maps/campus-parking-map-2021-22. CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe