Skip to main content louisville.edu My Accounts email ulink peoplesoft hr peoplesoft campus solutions peoplesoft financials blackboard business ops cardsmart cardbox cards career connection Plone University of Louisville home page APPLY Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning DONATE CAMPUSES Belknap HSC Online Search search all sites All Sites search this site only This Site Search Parameters Search UofL Go UofL Email FAQs UofL Email FAQs Home Email FAQs UofL Email FAQs Home Email FAQs Frequently Asked Questions What is my UofL email address? Your UofL email address can be found by going to ULink and on the front page of the portal, under Resources (below buttons), clicking on Email Addresses. Log-in with your userID and password. This page displays your system provided nickname (usually userID@louisville.edu) and your preferred email with an option to change your chosen nickname. The Primary Nickname (checked box) is your registered email account for sending/receiving at UofL (usually firstname.lastname@louisville.edu). You will use your system provided nickname (userID@louisville.edu) to log-into your UofL email. What are the different ways I can access my UofL email? You can access your UofL email in multiple ways: Online at outlook.office365.com. Using your smart phone. See the Outlook Live Mobile Phone Features Page for more information on configuring your mobile phone to receive Outlook Live email. Use the Outlook web client or installed desktop client. For more information visit Outlook Help. How do I start using my UofL email? Log in to your account at outlook.office365.com. Your log in ID for your UofL email is your ULink userID@louisville.edu (for example: fmlast01@louisville.edu). Your password is the same as your ULink password. Will the address book include faculty and staff email addresses? Yes, faculty and staff email addresses will appear in your UofL email address book. What is the difference between a personal contact group and a public contact group? Personal Contact Groups When you create a personal contact group in your UofL email, you may include anyone in the group (even external email addresses). However, you are the only person who may use your personal contact groups (they cannot be shared). Public Contact Groups When you create a public contact group in your UofL email, you may only include other UofL email users in your group. The advantage is that other UofL email users can see and use your public contact groups. Public groups may be controlled by the following settings: Open - Any UofL email user can join or leave the group at anytime. Restricted Access - UofL email users can only join or leave the group with approval from the creator of the group. Membership Closed - All requests to join or leave the group are automatically rejected. Note: Faculty and staff members cannot reply to UofL email groups. For this reason, communication with faculty and staff is best conducted via direct messaging or use of a ListServ. Are there sending or receiving limits on my UofL email? Yes. To combat spam and mass emailing dangers such as worms and viruses, the following limits are applied to your UofL email account: Recipient Limit - The maximum number of recipients you may include on one email message is 500. However, a public group is counted as a single recipient. Message Rate Limit - The maximum number of email messages you may send from your account per minute is 30. Recipient Rate Limit - The maximum number of recipients who may receive an email message from your account per day is 10,000. How do I use the visually impaired setting in my UofL email? Sign in to your UofL Email. Click on the Options link at the top right of the screen. Choose See all options. Choose Settings on the left side of the screen. Choose General. Select the Use the blind and low vision experience checkbox. Click the Save button. Sign out of your UofL email. When you sign in again, the account will be ADA compliant. How do I get help with my UofL email? Visit Outlook Live's online help site or contact the ITS HelpDesk at (502) 852-7997 or their website (helpdesk.louisville.edu). I am having trouble logging in to my UofL email. What should I do? Make sure you are logging in with your correct UofL email address (userID@louisville.edu). Reset your password at password.louisville.edu. Wait a few minutes then attempt to log in to your UofL email again. If you are still having problems, please contact the ITS HelpDesk at (502) 852-7997 or their website. How do I change/reset my password? Your UofL email password matches your ULink password. Changing your ULink password will also change your UofL email password. To change your password, go to identity.louisville.edu. What if I delete an item from my UofL email inbox by mistake? When you delete a message, it is moved to the Deleted Items folder where it remains for 30 days or until the folder is manually emptied. Those deleted items then remain in the "Recover Deleted Items" area for an additional 30 days, or until they are purged. I forward my UofL email to another account, but the forwarded messages all look like they come from me, is this correct? Yes. When forwarding your UofL email to another account, all forwarded messages will appear to come from you. When replying to one of these messages, make sure you type in the sender's email address in the "To" field. What happens if I leave the university? Employees leaving (not retiring) the university must cease use of UofL licensed software (O365, Microsoft Campus Agreement products, Adobe, DocuSign and others) both online and installed on all devices. CardBox accounts are transferrable to a personal Box account. If you are also a student: Once graduated, as a UofL alum, you are eligible to set up permanent email forwarding. Emails sent to your university account will be forwarded to the personal account of your choosing. To set up email forwarding, go to our Identity Management system under My Profile > My Availability > Email for Life > switch option to Yes > Enter forwarding email address > re-enter forwarding email address > Save. If you retire: An employee who retires retains their original email as long as they log into to their UofL email at least once every 180 days. If a retiree does not log-in or update their password every 180 days, the account will close. Retirees can request email forwarding at any time after they retire. This means that emails sent to your university account will be forwarded to the personal account of your choosing. To set up email forwarding, go to our Identity Management system under My Profile > My Availability > Email for Life > switch option to Yes > Enter forwarding email address > re-enter forwarding email address > Save. If you are a part-time lecturer (PTL): These include employees whose pay groups are L12, L11, F11, F51, or G12. Their accounts are closed twice a year – in late February or early March if the PTL employee is no longer employed, in September or early October if the PTL employee is no longer employed. An email notification is sent to the part-time lecturer before the account is closed. If you (otherwise) leave permanently: Employees are allowed to keep their computer accounts at the University of Louisville as long as they are actively employed. Accounts are closed the day the user is officially terminated from the University of Louisville. No notifications are sent. Email Listserv Information Looking to join, manage or create an email listserv for UofL? Most groups and units at UofL have transitioned over to our MS Teams options for messaging, posting or sending files and creating meetings but some departments or interest groups use a Listserv as a special use of email for widespread distribution of information. Index of all Listserv at UofL Listserv Permissions Manage Listserv Email Addresses Service Accounts Unit or department service email accounts are provided upon approval. Please use our password and account management portal to request, change ownership of, or close a service account. Additional information about management is located in our Knowledge Base. PLEASE NOTE: If a retiree does not access their email within six (6) months the email will be closed due to lack of use. ABOUT US TECH SUPPORT CONTACT US TWITTER INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES (ITS) Miller Information Technology Center, Room 109 University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 OFFICE HOURS M-F: 8:00 am to 5:00 pm No holiday hours. PHONE 502.852.6621 © university of louisville contact privacy statement apply undergraduate transfer graduate dentistry law medicine mba international online learning apply undergraduate transfer graduate dentistry law medicine mba international online learning jobs Donate Emergency login email ulink peoplesoft hr peoplesoft campus solutions peoplesoft financials blackboard business ops cardsmart cardbox cards career connection plone Login email ulink peoplesoft hr peoplesoft campus solutions peoplesoft financials blackboard business ops cardsmart cardbox cards career connection plone