Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Research and Innovation Navigation Home About Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program Researchers Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway ResearchersResearchers Dropdown Toggle Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway Industry Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started IndustryIndustry Dropdown Toggle Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started Students & Post-Docs Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Students & Post-DocsStudents & Post-Docs Dropdown Toggle Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Participants Children in Research Open Trials ParticipantsParticipants Dropdown Toggle Children in Research Open Trials Contact Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup ContactContact Dropdown Toggle Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup Industry Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started Home / Industry / Co-location and Land Co-location and Land The University of Louisville works with industry to locate on or near campus. This may mean everything from assisting startups with finding co-working space, right up to working with companies to open brand new innovation centers. We have a variety of facilities and land available. The University of Louisville works with industry to locate on or near campus. This may mean everything from assisting startups with finding co-working space, right up to working with companies to open brand new innovation centers, such as FirstBuild (Haier’s GE Appliances) and HIVE (Kindred Healthcare). We have a variety of facilities and land available. For more information on our campuses, including maps, please see here. BELKNAP CAMPUS UofL’s main Belknap Campus sits just south of downtown in the area of historic Old Louisville. This park-like campus is 287 acres, and is home to seven of our 12 academic colleges, including the J.B. Speed School of Engineering, Louis D. Brandeis School of Law and College of Arts and Sciences. Belknap is also home to our world-class sports facilities, including Cardinal Stadium for football, Owsley B. Frazier Cardinal Park for softball, Cardinal Track and Soccer Stadium, Bass-Rudd Tennis Center and the Jim Patterson baseball stadium. This campus is also where you will find our well-stocked Ekstrom Library, newly-renovated Speed Art Museum and our famous cast of Auguste Rodin's The Thinker statue. HEALTH SCIENCES CAMPUS In addition to Belknap, our health-related programs are at the Health Sciences Center, located downtown in the beating heart of the Louisville medical district, which includes UofL Hospital. SHELBYHURST CAMPUS Our 243-acre Shelbyhurst Campus is located in Eastern Jefferson County, and offers many professional development programs and available conference and events space. The ShelbyHurst Campus is also the location of the Center for Predictive Medicine (a Level 3 biosafety facility) and also the Information Technology Resource Center for the US Department of Homeland Security. INNOVATION AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP CAMPUS In downtown Louisville, we have the J.D. Nichols Campus for Innovation and Entrepreneurship, which is anchored by One Innovation Center. This campus includes co-working space, research facilities and training programs that help expedite collaboration and shared expertise among researchers and companies. Industry Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started CONTACT Ready to get started? Contact us below to start innovating: OFFICE OF RESEARCH & INNOVATION University of Louisville 300 E Market Street Louisville, Kentucky 40202 MORE INFORMATION Phone (Main) 502.852.6512, 502.852.8361 (Fax) Looking for a unit within the Office of Research and Innovation? Contact information here. Email Email Research and Innovation Service Account © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville