Future Students Current Students Alumni & Donors Make a Gift Search All UofLSPHIS Go Institutes & Centers Center for Health Hazards Preparedness Statistical Consulting Center Commonwealth Institute of Kentucky Youth Violence Prevention Research Center Center for Health Organization Transformation Frazier Polypharmacy Program Departments Department of Bioinformatics & Biostatistics Department of Epidemiology & Population Health Department of Health Management & Systems Sciences Department of Health Promotion & Behavioral Sciences About Academics Research Partnerships News Directory Contact × View COVID-19 Projections for Jefferson County, KY → Learn more about UofL SPHIS COVID-19 Involvement → EARN A DEGREE THAT MAKES A DIFFERENCE Graduate with the knowledge and skills needed to find your place in the dynamic field of public health. Apply Now How UofL Defines Public Health The University of Louisville School of Public Health & Information Sciences (SPHIS) offers a variety of programs to launch your journey in the dynamic field of public health. Watch our video to learn more about public health and why you should consider getting a degree from UofL SPHIS. Schedule a virtual appointment to learn more Racism, a Public Health Emergency Dr. Monica Wendel explains how the disproportionate impact of COVID-19, along with widespread protests for racial justice, is forcing a long overdue reckoning with the history of our country in general and Louisville specifically. Read more News UofL scholar’s essay featured in new report calling on bioethicists to take a stand against anti-Black racism May 17, 2022 Trinidad Jackson receives 2022 Guy Stevenson Award May 13, 2022 Congratulations May 2022 Graduates May 11, 2022 Jenna El-Masri receives 2022 Provost’s Award for Exemplary Advising Apr 27, 2022 2022 SPHIS Graduation Awards & Honors Apr 15, 2022More News Upcoming Events Date Event 14 Jun Virtual MSHA Information Session 06:00 PM - 07:00 PMMicrosoft Teams Full Event Schedule Popular Links BA/BS in Public Health MPH Program Accreditation Admissions School Directory Available Positions ULink About Us What is public health? Public health is about changing conditions under which people can be healthy. It involves identifying health risks, monitoring health factors and preparing responses. A degree in public health prepares you for a rewarding career in this growing field. Find a degree that matches your area of interest. Learn More About SPHIS Stay Connected twitter Facebook LinkedIn YouTube Instagram University of Louisville Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Diversity Email Blackboard ULink