Skip to main content louisville.edu My Accounts email ulink peoplesoft hr peoplesoft campus solutions peoplesoft financials blackboard business ops cardsmart cardbox cards career connection Plone toggle search APPLY Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning DONATE CAMPUSES Belknap HSC Online Search search all sites All Sites search this site only This Site Search Parameters Search UofL Go Workday @UofL toggle navigation Home about About Workday About People resources Change Ambassadors faq Home To ensure the quality of our Workday project, WorkdayHR now has an extended timeline Through extensive collaboration across every aspect of UofL, the replacement of our biggest enterprise management systems will have a tremendous positive impact on the future success of our institution. To deliver the best product and make the transition to Workday successful, the project team along with Huron, our implementation partner, have decided to extend the WorkdayHR launch date to January 2023. As with most significant projects, timelines must be flexible and are dependent upon the progress of the project. Extending our timeline to January 2023 presents an opportunity to: Expand and enhance the engagement with the university’s Change Ambassador Network Provide time to conduct additional Workday tenant builds in order to increase testing, further validate data and implement with best possible functionality Provide additional time for all internal user training and widen the scope of materials that will be available for everyone in the UofL community Align the calendar year’s end/begin with payroll, tax and employee benefits data Integration of HR and Payroll processes Workday has remarkable existing functionality and workflows that will improve the UofL’s HR and Payroll processes through integration. Using Higher Education best practices The enhanced technology Workday provides encourages the use of best practices for Higher Ed in all of our HR and Payroll offerings. Creating consistent processes throughout Workday will help us establish cohesiveness across the university by the incorporation of the ‘majority’ of transactions in one system. Providing the best solutions for processing Our established Workday implementation teams will closely examine processes to determine the best solutions university-wide. CURRENT NEWS New Key Milestones Set Our WorkdayHR team is updating the overall project plan with additional project milestones in alignment with day-to-day operational priorities and tasks. Continue visiting this website and viewing UofL Today for more updates. Questions? Change Ambassadors Lead the Way More than 70 university employees are helping transform processes for units and departments across the university. Many thanks to these key individuals! See more UofL News Article The Workday HR project is featured news with background, insights and future plans. See more WorkdayHR Stream Page Check out our new MS Stream channel for informational videos and training sessions. See more CURRENT NEWS New Key Milestones Set Our WorkdayHR team is updating the overall project plan with additional project milestones in alignment with day-to-day operational priorities and tasks. Continue visiting this website and viewing UofL Today for more updates. Questions? Change Ambassadors Lead the Way More than 70 university employees are helping transform processes for units and departments across the university. Many thanks to these key individuals! See more UofL News Article The Workday HR project is featured news with background, insights and future plans. See more WorkdayHR Stream Page Check out our new MS Stream channel for informational videos and training sessions. See more CURRENT TIMELINE As with most significant projects, timelines must be flexible and are dependent upon the progress of the project. The testing phase for our WorkdayHR project is focused on the analysis and assessment of the system that will run our university’s future business and human resource processes. For a complete chronology, including past achievements and future plans, see our About Project page. In the Testing Phase, our Functional team configures data collected from university partners in order to run scenarios within our test environments. With end-to-end testing, we are in our third cycle. Payroll parallel testing begins in August with regression functionality verified at the end of this period. The Technical team continues to test data conversion on mock payroll data. In order to evaluate the system’s performance within various testing environment, we have several tenant builds running parallel data for users to test. UofL’s Change Ambassador Network continues to set up necessary data from individual units and departments. The Change Management team utilizes their feedback to finalize our necessary end-user training. Creating a university-wide awareness through communication about the WorkdayHR project and forthcoming employee training is the focus. Functional Technical Change Management home about resources FAQ For WorkdayHR Questions: WorkdayHR Project Team For Technical Questions: Information Technology Services (ITS) @ITSUofL For Operational Inquires: Operations Support Services For HR Inquires: Human Resources @UofLHR University of Louisville Belknap / HSC Louisville, KY 40292 502.852.7549 © university of louisville contact privacy statement apply undergraduate transfer graduate dentistry law medicine mba international online learning apply undergraduate transfer graduate dentistry law medicine mba international online learning jobs Donate Emergency login email ulink peoplesoft hr peoplesoft campus solutions peoplesoft financials blackboard business ops cardsmart cardbox cards career connection Login email ulink peoplesoft hr peoplesoft campus solutions peoplesoft financials blackboard business ops cardsmart cardbox cards career connection