[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Doctoral Degree Programs / Online Doctor of Social Work (DSW) /-/images/pages/dsw/OL2103WEB_DSW_HEADER_1596x740.jpg Change the world with education and action. dsw dsw-program-page organic ../../programs/masters/online-master-of-science-in-industrial-engineering/dsw?tab=apply Veronica Johnson Online Enrollment Counselor Online Doctor of Social Work (DSW) The online Doctor of Social Work (DSW) is designed for experienced social workers to become practitioner scholars in teaching and leadership and take on roles such as faculty members in social work programs and program directors, administrators, policy practitioners, and other organizational leadership positions within social service organizations. UofL’s Doctor of Social Work program can help you make a real difference in your community and the world. If you’re an experienced social worker ready to make a difference, the expertly-designed DSW curriculum will help you develop the skills you need to educate, innovate and implement just practices that promote academic, organizational and community change. The Doctor of Social Work is offered by the CSWE-accredited Kent School of Social Work at the University of Louisville. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Highlights Experience the advantage of earning your degree from an R1 research institution. Gain hands-on experience by completing a teaching practicum as well as a leadership practicum. Complete your DSW in as little as 3 years (or 8 semesters). Set yourself up for a successful career—according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Social worker employment is expected to grow 16% between 2016 and 2026. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes and 24/7 access to learning tools. Learn from world-class, experienced Kent School faculty, who have extensive teaching and leadership experience. 100% ONLINE COURSES Stronger cultural knowledge and stronger base to work from—available fully online. 14 COURSES Earn your graduate certificate in just 14 courses (44 credit hours). 16% JOB GROWTH According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Social worker employment is expected to grow 16% between 2016 and 2026. "This program transforms experienced professionals into scholars, teachers and organizational leaders positively impacting vulnerable and marginalized populations." DAVID JENKINS, PH.D., MSW DEAN KENT SCHOOL OF SOCIAL WORK What can you do with a Doctor of Social Work? The essential knowledge, skills and credentials earned from a DSW equips you to advance your career and succeed as a social work postsecondary educator and/or leader. Most postsecondary social work educators work in public and private colleges and universities, professional schools, and junior or community colleges. The 2019-2029 occupational outlook for postsecondary social work educators is expected to grow 9% nationwide, which is faster than the average national occupation growth rate and have a median annual salary of $80,790 (bls.gov). Other career opportunities available to Doctor of Social Work graduates include: University faculty or administrator Policy practitioner Leader within social service organizations What is the difference between a DSW and a Ph.D. in Social Work? The DSW is ideal for someone who wants to be an educator or take on a leadership position in a social service organization or within higher education. On other hand, a Ph.D. in Social Work will help students hone their research skills and prepare for conducting research while teaching at a college or university. While you can become a faculty member with either degree, a DSW prepares you to become part of the education faculty with a central focus on teaching and service as opposed to research. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Preferred Application Deadline* Term Start Date February 1 Fall 2023 August 2023 Steps to Apply Complete graduate application $65 non-refundable application fee Submit official college transcripts from all previous institutions Complete DSW application checklist Complete DSW applicant information form Submit personal statement of goals for pursuing the DSW degree Submit Current Resume or Curriculum Vitae Submit 3 letters of recommendation From individuals familiar with the applicant’s work and/or academic ability and performance such as current or former supervisors and instructors A writing sample demonstrating the applicant's writing and analytical ability Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu * The preferred deadline helps you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application in advance of the preferred deadline, as some application materials may take more time. REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Master’s degree in Social Work Master’s GPA of 3.0 (applicants with a master’s GPA of below 3.0 showing potential for success as demonstrated in their other submitted application materials and/or in the interview for admission into the DSW program will be given consideration for admission) 2 years of post-master’s social work experience An interview after review of submitted application materials The online Doctor of Social Work is a 44 credit hour program that requires 6 credit hours of thesis/capstone coursework (2 courses, completed during the third, final, year of the program). Year Semester Course List Hours 1 Fall SW 730: Social Service Leadership and Teaching & Learning: History, Philosophy & Current Practice 3 SW 731: Ethics, Equity, and Social Justice: Theory & Practice 3 Spring SW 732: Implementation Science, Program Development & Administration 3 SW 733: Continuous Quality Improvement, Data Driven Decision-Making, and Evidence Based Practice and Management 3 Summer SW 734: Research Methods 3 SW 735: Program Evaluation 3 2 Fall SW 736: Applied Social Service Leadership, Management & Practice 4 SW 737: Program Planning, Finance and Budgets 3 Spring SW 738: Social Work Teaching & Learning: Theories, Methods & Assessment 3 SW 739: Teaching in Social Work: Course Design, Instruction & Evaluation 4 Summer SW 740: Policy Analysis & Advocacy: Contemporary Issues 3 SW 741: Integrative Seminar & Qualifying Assessment 3 3 Fall SW 742: Thesis/Capstone Project 3 Spring SW 742: Thesis/Capstone Project 3 Minimum Required Credit Hours 44 Course Descriptions Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link