Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Research and Innovation Navigation Home About Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program Researchers Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway ResearchersResearchers Dropdown Toggle Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway Industry Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started IndustryIndustry Dropdown Toggle Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started Students & Post-Docs Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Students & Post-DocsStudents & Post-Docs Dropdown Toggle Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Participants Children in Research Open Trials ParticipantsParticipants Dropdown Toggle Children in Research Open Trials Contact Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup ContactContact Dropdown Toggle Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup Participants Children in Research Open Trials Home / Participants Participating in UofL Research The University of Louisville recognizes the importance of your decision to take part in a research study. Therefore, we want you to be educated in all the aspects of research before you decide to participate. It is important to consider the level of risk and compare it to any benefits when deciding whether or not to participate in human subject’s research. The U.S. Office for Human Research Protections (OHRP) has developed resources for you to learn about participating in research and making informed decision. Visit their "About Research Participation" page. Participants can also view the OHRP brochure "Becoming a Research Volunteer: It's Your Decision". People considering involvement in a research study should know that they have certain rights as a research participant. More information below. For more information on children participating in research, please see this page. Informed consent You are likely to be presented with an informed consent form indicating approval by the IRB. This document is intended to provide you with relevant information necessary to decide whether or not you want to participate. This form itself should be coupled with a discussion of the research. Generally, informed consent will involve a description of the following: An explanation of the purpose of the research. A description of what you will be asked to do and how long it will take should you participate and whether or not you will be compensated for your time. A description of any risks involved in participating. These risks could be physical, psychological, social or criminal. The steps taken to minimize these risks should also be described. A description of any benefits to you or to society as a whole. The degree to which the information will be kept confidential. Who to contact should you have questions about the research or about your rights as a participant. A statement that you are free not to participate and can stop participating at any time. Voluntary participation Any participation in a research study is completely voluntary. You are free to decline to participate for any reason. You may also stop participating at any time or refuse to answer any individual questions. Even after you sign the consent form, you can stop. Should you decide to decline or stop participating, this decision will in no way influence any services to which you are otherwise entitled. For example, if you are a student, your teacher or professor cannot hold this against you when determining your grade. If you are receiving treatment, that treatment cannot be withheld if you do not agree to participate. Whether or not you participate is entirely up to you. You should not sign the form agreeing to the research until all of your questions have been answered to your satisfaction. Signing this form does not waive any of your legal rights or alter your ability to stop participating at a later time. You should be given a copy of the form to take with you in case you have questions later. The Office for Human Research Protections (OHRP) provides leadership in the protection of the rights, welfare, and wellbeing of subjects involved in research conducted or supported by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Questions to ask Why is the research being done? What will be done to me as part of the research? How will I benefit from the research? Could the research hurt me? What will the researcher do with my information? Will the research cost me anything? Who pays if I'm unexpectedly injured in the study? How long will the study last? What happens if I decide to leave the study early? Who should I call if I have a question about the research? QUESTIONS/CONCERNS ABOUT A STUDY: The Consent form you receive when you are invited to be a research subject includes some contact information if you have questions or concerns about the study. You are encouraged to contact the researcher if you have questions. QUESTIONS ABOUT RIGHTS AS A RESEARCH SUBJECT: Call the office at 502.852.5188 or toll free at 1.800.334.UofL (8635). If calling toll free, when the operator answers, ask to be connected to extension 852-5188. You can discuss any questions about your rights as a research subject, in private, with a member of the IRB. ANONYMOUS QUESTIONS/COMPLAINTS: If you have concerns or complaints about the research or research staff and you do not wish to give your name, you may call toll free at 1.877.852.1167. This is a 24 hour hot line answered by people who do not work at the University of Louisville. Additional resources Additional Resources NIH Clinical Research Trials and You Cancer.net American Cancer Society Background and Educational Materials on Human Research CenterWatch: Background Information on Clinical Research NIH Clinical Center: Participate in Clinical Studies NIH Senior Health: Participating in Clinical Trials NIH Senior Health: Participating in Clinical Trials National Cancer Institute: Protecting Participants in Clinical Trials: Links to NCI Materials Dana Farber Cancer Institute: Entering a Clinical Trial: Is It Right for You? Association of American Universities: About University Research Find a Clinical Trial Through Local Research Offices Norton Healthcare Office of Research Administration (NHORA) Brown Cancer Center Clinical Trials (JGBCC) University of Louisville Clinical Trials Unit Additional Clinical Trial Listings AIDsinfo Clinical Trials Alpha-1 Foundation: Participate in Research Programs ALS Association: The ALS Association Active Research Projects Searchable Database American Lung Association: Research Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America: Clinical Trials Research Center ClinicalTrials.gov: List of Clinical Trials The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Clinical Trial Service National Alopecia Areata Foundation: Research Announcements National Breast Cancer Coalition: Breast Cancer Research Initiative National Cancer Institute: Search for Clinical Trials National Health Council Membership Roster: Links to web sites of more than 115 Council members, most of which include information on research studies Yale Cancer Center Trials Research Studies at Yale Yale Center for Clinical Investigation National Institute of Mental Health: A Participants Guide to Mental Health Clinical Research Participants Children in Research Open Trials CONTACT QUESTIONS ABOUT CLINICAL TRIALS AT UOFL: For general information about clinical trials at the University of Louisville and information about enrolling, please contact the UofL Clinical Trials Unit. QUESTIONS ABOUT RIGHTS AS A RESEARCH SUBJECT: Call the Human Subjects Protection Program Office at 502.852.5188 or toll free at 1.800.334.UofL (8635). If calling toll free, when the operator answers, ask to be connected to extension 502.852.5188. You can discuss any questions about your rights as a research subject, in private, with a member of the IRB. ANONYMOUS QUESTIONS/COMPLAINTS: If you have concerns or complaints about the research or research staff and you do not wish to give your name, you may call toll free at 1.877.852.1167. This is a 24-hour hot line answered by people who do not work at the University of Louisville. MORE RESOURCES Resources: Research Involving Children NIH Clinical Research Trials and You Cancer.net American Cancer Society Background and Educational Materials on Human Research CenterWatch: Background Information on Clinical Research NIH Clinical Center: Participate in Clinical Studies NIH Senior Health: Participating in Clinical Trials National Cancer Institute: Protecting Participants in Clinical Trials: Links to NCI Materials Dana Farber Cancer Institute: Entering a Clinical Trial: Is It Right for You? Association of American Universities: About University Research Find a Clinical Trial Through Local Research Offices: Norton Healthcare Office of Research Administration (NHORA)This website has information regarding all the research and clinical trials for all the Norton Hospitals and physician offices in the Louisville and Southern Indiana area. Brown Cancer Center Clinical Trials (JGBCC) Multidisciplinary cancer clinics with a listing of all their clinical trials according to the type of cancer. University of Louisville Hospital (KentuckyOne Health)Listing of departments and contact phone numbers to call University of Louisville Clinical Trials Unit Multidisciplinary listing of clinical trials. Clinical Trial Listings AIDsinfo Clinical Trials Alpha-1 Foundation: Participate in Research Programs ALS Association: The ALS Association Active Research Projects Searchable Database American Lung Association: Research Asthma and Allergy Foundation of America: Clinical Trials Research Center CenterWatch: Clinical Trial Listing by Medical Area ClinicalTrials.gov: List of Clinical Trials The Leukemia & Lymphoma Society Clinical Trial Service National Alopecia Areata Foundation: Research Announcements National Breast Cancer Coalition: Breast Cancer Research Initiative National Cancer Institute: Search for Clinical Trials National Health Council Membership Roster: Links to web sites of more than 115 Council members, most of which include information on research studies Yale Cancer Center Trials Research Studies at Yale Yale Center for Clinical Investigation Mental Health Research National Institute of Mental Health: A Participants Guide to Mental Health Clinical Research Social and Behavioral Science Research American Association for Public Opinion Research: Protection of Human Participants in Survey Research: A Source Document for Institutional Review Boards Social and Behavioral Science Research American Association for Public Opinion Research: Protection of Human Participants in Survey Research: A Source Document for Institutional Review Boards Consortium of Social Science Associations: Why Support Social and Behavioral Science Research? National Science Foundation: FAQs OFFICE OF RESEARCH & INNOVATION University of Louisville 300 E Market Street Louisville, Kentucky 40202 MORE INFORMATION Phone (Main) 502.852.6512, 502.852.8361 (Fax) Looking for a unit within the Office of Research and Innovation? Contact information here. Email Email Research and Innovation Service Account © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville