Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Research and Innovation Navigation Home About Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program Researchers Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway ResearchersResearchers Dropdown Toggle Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway Industry Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started IndustryIndustry Dropdown Toggle Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started Students & Post-Docs Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Students & Post-DocsStudents & Post-Docs Dropdown Toggle Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Participants Children in Research Open Trials ParticipantsParticipants Dropdown Toggle Children in Research Open Trials Contact Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup ContactContact Dropdown Toggle Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup Researchers Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway Home / Researchers Supporting groundbreaking research Researchers at the University of Louisville are groundbreakers, trailblazers and innovators. It's our job in the Office of Research and Innovation to support that work and help our researchers soar, from finding and securing funding to securing intellectual property for university-born technologies and getting them to market. Researchers at the University of Louisville are groundbreakers, trailblazers and innovators. It's our job in the Office of Research and Innovation to support that work and help our researchers soar. We can help you through every step of the research and innovation process, from finding and securing funding to securing intellectual property for university-born technologies and getting them to market. To begin your journey, explore the options below: Find funding, build your team and develop your proposal Most research requires funding. Our office can help you identify funding opportunities that fit your intended work, find collaborators from across campus and disciplines and develop proposals that will win reviewers' attention. More information can be found on our Funding and Proposal Development pages. Complete compliance and training requirements All research and UofL must meet the highest standards of compliance, safety and ethics. Our staff can help you navigate required trainings, conflicts of interest, human subjects research, animal research and international research concerns. More information can be found on our Compliance and Regulatory page. Additional training opportunities can be found on our Training and Workshops page. Conduct and manage your research Once you've secured funding, our staff can help you set up, manage and close out your award once your work is done. More information can be found on our Awards page. Secure IP and commercialize your discovery The groundbreaking research that happens everyday at UofL will occasionally spawn inventions or other intellectual property. Our staff can help you vet your idea, secure IP, find funding and training for development and commercialize it through a startup or industry partnership. More information can be found on our Innovation and Commercialization page. Develop and grow industry partnerships Working with industry is an opportunity to help solve real-world problems and help companies innovate and grow. These projects also often provide an additional revenue stream for labs through industry-sponsored research agreements, SBIR/STTR grants and other avenues. More information can be found on our Industry Partnerships page. Publish your results Once you've completed your research, it's time to publish and share your work with the world. UofL offers several services that can help you locate possible publishers, write and polish your article ahead of publication. More information can be found on our Publishing page. Researchers Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway CONTACT Contact the Office of Research and Innovation and find our office locations here. A full listing of our offices and staff can be found here. OFFICE ANNOUNCEMENTS UofL New Ventures launches to support our research-backed startups (September 2021) Simplified Procurement Process for Research Purchases (September 2021) UofL selects Electronic Research Administration (ERA) system, begins rolling out tools (August 2021) Upcoming Changes to the Office of Sponsored Programs Administration Service Delivery Model (June 11, 2021) ORCiD now available for UofL faculty (June 3, 2021) Update on Post-Doc Programs (December 18, 2020) Call for ERA Presentation Feedback (December 17, 2020) Sign up to receive future announcements, news and opportunities from our office here. STORIES OFFICE OF RESEARCH & INNOVATION University of Louisville 300 E Market Street Louisville, Kentucky 40202 MORE INFORMATION Phone (Main) 502.852.6512, 502.852.8361 (Fax) Looking for a unit within the Office of Research and Innovation? Contact information here. Email Email Research and Innovation Service Account © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville