Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Community Engagement Navigation Home About Us Programs Upward Bound & Talent Search Signature Partnership Initiative Grants & Awards Annual Engaged Scholarship Symposium Student Philanthropy Program Cards Come Together Speakers Bureau ProgramsPrograms Dropdown Toggle Upward Bound & Talent Search Signature Partnership Initiative Grants & Awards Annual Engaged Scholarship Symposium Student Philanthropy Program Cards Come Together Speakers Bureau Signature Partnership UofL's Place-Based Initiative with west Louisville Target Area Schools Partnership Structure Signature PartnershipSignature Partnership Dropdown Toggle UofL's Place-Based Initiative with west Louisville Target Area Schools Partnership Structure Faculty Engaging with the Community Virtually Call for Nomination - The W. Kellogg and the C. Peter Magrath Awards Professional Development in Community-Engaged Scholarship Small Grants Annual Community-Based Learning Institute FacultyFaculty Dropdown Toggle Engaging with the Community Virtually Call for Nomination - The W. Kellogg and the C. Peter Magrath Awards Professional Development in Community-Engaged Scholarship Small Grants Annual Community-Based Learning Institute Staff Students Community Community Partner Survey CommunityCommunity Dropdown Toggle Community Partner Survey Reporting & Assessment Community Engagement Assessment Community Engagement Plans Search Activities Annual Activity Reporting Reports and Publications International Partnerships Reporting & Assessment Reporting & Assessment Dropdown Toggle Community Engagement Assessment Community Engagement Plans Search Activities Annual Activity Reporting Reports and Publications International Partnerships News About Us The Office of Community Engagement is the central administrative office with the mission to facilitate the use of university knowledge and resources to support effective partnerships with internal and external stakeholders to advance the mutual needs of the community and the university. The office promotes transformative experiences for faculty, staff, and students through engaged scholarship, outreach, and service to address community issues both locally, regionally, and internationally. Douglas Craddock Jr. Chief of Staff to the Executive Vice President and University Provost and Vice President of Community Engagement In addition to his role as Chief of Staff to the Executive Vice President and University Provost, Dr. Craddock , serves as the Vice President of Community Engagement, building and expanding linkages for the university across multiple efforts within the Office of Community Engagement. He oversees UofL’s Signature Partnership, the university’s initiative to enhance the quality of life and economic opportunity for residents of west Louisville. By partnering with city and state governments, schools and other organizations, UofL coordinates and enhances existing programs and launches new ones to eliminate disparities that residents experience in social, education, health and economic development areas. Dr. Craddock will oversee programs including Cards Come Together, the university’s week of service; the university’s TRIO, Upward Bound and Talent Search programs, which are federally funded efforts that identify and provide services for individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds; the student philanthropy program; and UofL’s Annual Engaged Scholarship Symposium. Duties Represent the President on University and external community boards, committees, and task forces Serve as a liaison between the President and the University and external community. Support and advance university- wide community engagement and advise the President of pertinent community issues affecting the institution Communicate effectively the President's vision, the University's strategic plan, as well as other relevant information regarding the University goals and operations Build effective relationships and partnerships with internal and external constituents Henry Cunningham Director of Community Engagement Dr. Henry R. Cunningham is Director of Community Engagement at the University of Louisville where he co-founded and co-directed the University’s International Service Learning Program. He has extensive background in international and community development, having conducted developmental work in several countries. He was assigned to the United Nations where he worked with international leaders focusing on sustainable development in developing countries. Dr. Cunningham currently teaches a community-based learning course, enabling students to engage with the immigrant community. He has published articles and book chapters on community engagement. He co-edited a book on partnership and collaboration which was published in 2020. Susan Jenkins Assistant to Vice President of Community Engagement Personal Assistant to Vice President Administrative support to Faculty Liaison Committee and University Community Partnership Advisory Board Special event planning i.e. Outstanding Community Engagement Awards Felicia Gough Unit Business Manager Oversees all budgetary, personnel, payroll, purchasing, and financial matters Administrative support for Community Engagement Office Administrative support to Resident Advisory Council Committee Patrick Smith Assistant Director of Community Engagement Leads reporting and documentation for community engagement Conducts data collection and systematic tracking of efforts across academic and administrative units Manages assessment of the impact of community engagement on faculty, students, community partners and the institution Oversees office communication strategies including website development, update and maintenance, newsletter production and dissemination, and social media © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville