No images? Click here December 13, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews IMPORTANT INFORMATION Auxiliary and Dining Services Holiday Break hours Auxiliary Services holiday schedule - louisville.edu/contractadmin/quick-links/auxiliary-services-holiday-schedule Dining Services winter break HOP - louisville.edu/contractadmin/quick-links/winter-break-hop ACADEMICS Post-Bac Pre-Med Program info session Our structured two year career changer program is seeking college seniors and graduates with minimal pre-med course work; who are interested in becoming a physician. Our program can help! Join our virtual info session on Mon., Dec. 13 @ 5:00-6:00 p.m. via Teams. louisville.edu/medicine/degrees/postbacpremed EVENTS Here & Beyond Launch party Students are invited to join us for the premiere of our new UofL brand anthem video. Sponsored by Commonwealth Credit Union, the Here & Beyond Launch party will include food, giveaways, photo opportunities and a preview of additional campaign materials. Friday, January 14, 2pm, SAC Multipurpose Room. events.louisville.edu/event/here_beyond_launch_party#.YbDTvWDMJPY AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Cultural Center Scholarships 2022-23 Student may now apply for Cultural Center Scholarships from December 1, 2021 through March 1, 2022. louisville.edu/culturalcenter/scholarships COMPETITIONS 10-Minute Playwriting competition The Department of Theatre Arts will host competition for original student work. For more information about the competition, please email director geoffrey.nelson@louisville.edu Subject: SHORTS Deadline for Submission : January 6 Winners will be staged as part of TA's Mainstage 2021-2022 season. louisville.edu/theatrearts/about/faculty/nelson WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS SRC Winter Break The SRC will operate under a modified schedule. Starting Tuesday, Dec. 7 hours will be weekdays 9 AM to 9 PM, Saturdays 11AM to 5 PM and Sundays 1 PM to 7 PM.On Friday, Dec. 17 we will close at 5 PM and remain closed until Monday, Jan. 3 at 9 AM. louisville.edu/intramurals HSC Fitness Center Winter Break The HSC Fitness Center will maintain regular hours of operation until Friday, Dec. 7 when it will close at 5 PM and will remain closed until Monday, Jan. 3 when it will re-open at 6 AM. louisville.edu/intramurals Men’s Basketball at home on Tuesday The team hosts Southeastern Louisiana Tuesday night at 6 p.m. for “Holidays with the Cards!” Celebrate the holiday season with themed promotions and bring new toys for donation as part of the annual “Kyle’s Korner for Kids” toy drive. Also, get a free photo opportunity with Santa and Louie! uofl.me/mbbstudenttix Women’s Basketball at home on Thursday The UofL Women’s Basketball team is also getting into the holiday season as the host Eastern Kentucky Thursday at 8 p.m. Dress in your best holiday gear and get a picture with Santa Louie! Admission is free for all students. gocards.com/calendar Bowl Pick Em Contest Intramural Sports is running an online, Bowl Pick Em contest. Just take the link below and make your picks. You will be able to see other people's picks and how you are doing as the bowl season progresses. Entries are due December 17. https://fantasy.espn.com/games/college-football-bowl-mania-2021/group?id=963903da-3087-40aa-88e7-17927222bdc8&joining=true SUSTAINABILITY Apply for paid Garden Commons Internship Like growing food & managing volunteers? Apply to join the Sustainability Council’s team as a paid Garden Intern! You’ll work with other Garden Interns from the very start of the growing season. Freshmen & sophomores with previous gardening experience preferred. louisville.edu/sustainability/education-research/internships ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I’m interested in counseling, but I don’t really want to see someone one-on-one. Does the Counseling Center have groups? A. Yes! The Counseling Center regularly has group therapy and workshops during the fall and spring semesters. For more information on what is available and the schedule, visit louisville.edu/counseling/groups. DID YOU KNOW? There are academic, university event, HSC event, and university holiday calendars online for your convenience. Go to louisville.edu/calendars. CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe