No images? Click here October 18, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews IMPORTANT INFORMATION Resources for Students The University of Louisville is a community that cares for one another. There are a variety of resources including confidential support resources available like the PEACC Center, the Counseling Center, Campus Health Services. You can find more information about these and other resources at: www.louisville.edu/titleix. Free Application for Federal Student Aid The 2022-2023 FAFSA is now available. Please submit your FAFSA at www.studentaid.gov as soon as possible after October 1st as some aid programs are awarded on a first come first serve basis. When completing the FAFSA, you will use your 2020 income information. Please use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool to import tax information from the IRS if possible. You will also need your Federal Student Aid ID (FSA ID) to sign the FAFSA. If you have forgotten or misplaced your FSA ID, please visit the Manage My FSA ID website and follow the instructions for retrieving your FSA ID. The Department of Education has launched a new mobile app called myStudentAid The app allows students or parents to securely fill out and submit the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) entirely from their mobile device. In addition to submitting a new FAFSA, students can also: Correct a previously filed FAFSA Renew an old FAFSA application Edit or manage an FSA ID Check federal loan and financial aid history The app is available in the Apple App Store and Google Play for Android. If you have additional questions contact the UofL Student Financial Aid Office by phone at 502-852-5511 or by email at finaid@louisvile.edu. Student Grievance Officer Any students who believe they have been treated unfairly, discriminated against, or have had their rights abridged may initiate a grievance within one year from the event giving rise to the complaint. louisville.edu/dos/help/studentgrievance Cardbox sign-on changing to Microsoft SSO On November 15, ITS will change the sign-in procedure for our CardBox storage to our Microsoft single sign-on (SSO). Account holders will recognize the SSO as currently used for O365 products and standard procedures (userID, password) will apply. Questions? ITS HelpDesk 852-7997 helpdesk.louisville.edu. ACADEMICS Winter Session registration begins Tuesday, October 19 Make the most out of your break and take a Winter Session course 100% online at UofL. In just 3 weeks, you can: Take a class you missed while waitlisted Re-take a course to improve your GPA Get a jump start on the Spring Semester Important Dates: Classes start December 15 Last day to Add/Drop is December 16 Last day to Withdraw is December 24 Last day of classes is January 4, comprehensive finals on January 5 if applicable Visit Louisville.edu/wintersession for information on available courses, tuition, and financial aid details. Registration for the Spring 2022 Semester Registration for the Spring 2022 Semester for continuing students will begin in November, based on your classification and an alphabetic rotation: louisville.edu/registrar/registration/registration-specific/specific-registration-information/#spring-rotation Registration Information Registration/Add/Drop dates, semester deadlines, and other important registration information: louisville.edu/registrar/registration/registration-specific/specific-registration-information. Registration Instructions: louisville.edu/registrar/registration/rprocess.html. Course Information: ULink>Student>Sign in>Manage Classes>Class Search and Enroll>Spring 2022 —You may need to click the arrow to the right of "Terms on or after Fall 2021" to see Spring 2022 at the bottom. Registration Holds Check your ULink account for “Holds” under the Tasks tile to see what may be required prior to registration. Virtual info session Master of Public Health Join Dr. Brian Guinn and Bryan Mathis from the School of Public Health & Information Sciences as they share more information about the Master of Public Health program at UofL. This degree provides opportunity to find practical solutions to challenges in protecting the health of the public. October 22, 4 PM, Microsoft TEAMS: Microsoft Teams meeting call in (audio only) +1 502-792-9582,,906198797# United States, Louisville. Phone Conference ID: 906 198 797# or email bryan.mathis@louisville.edu for a virtual TEAMS meeting link. Information about the program: louisville.edu/sphis/academics/mph-program Become a teacher! MAT Alt Cert information session Join us for an online info session to learn about our Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) Alternative Certification. You will learn about the alternative route to certification and how our program can help you become a certified teacher. October 21, 4pm, Zoom. Register at: forms.gle/VPrTFtFWoFi2GY5P7. EVENTS CEHD Hosts Student Townhall with Marty Pollio Students from all units across campus are invited to attend a townhall event with Dr. Marty Pollio, Superintendent of JCPS. Monday, October 18 from 5-6 PM. Event will take place on Zoom. Register here: bit.ly/3autDnJ Raise Some L this Wednesday Raise Some L, UofL's annual day of giving, starts Oct. 19 at 6:02 p.m. & runs through the 20th. Stop by our on-campus HQ stations on Oct. 20 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. to learn more, for giveaways, & to make a gift. Spread the word & help us reach our goal of 2,021 unique donors! Fall Wellness Fair The University of Louisville Counseling Center will be hosting the Fall Wellness Fair on Wednesday, October 20, 2021 11am- 2pm at the Red Barn. Students are encouraged to join us in activities that promote mental health and wellness. For more information please visit louisville.edu/counseling. Pop-Up Plant Clinic Do you have a sick plant? Need advice on how to care for the sick plant? Bring your plant to us! We will be situated in the lobby of Herman & Heddy Kurz Hall. Wednesday, October 20, 4–6 PM. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7478143 BINGO Night to Raise Some L Oct. 20, 7pm, join the SSC and raiseRED for BINGO. Play in person at West Plaza/Red Barn or join online. Maybe you’ll snag a t-shirt or maybe you’ll win one of the fabulous prizes from the CCU Champion’s Chest! Kroger/ Commonwealth Credit Union Food Drive Food Drive at Cardinal Stadium on Sat, Oct 23 (2-4pm) Kroger Ultimate Tailgate Tent, Purple Lot A. Benefits Cardinal Cupboard. Volunteers needed to collect food and help transport items back to SAC. Volunteers receive a ticket to the game & a parking pass. Sign up by Oct 20. Click link for more details and to sign up: app.helperhelper.com/opportunity/214428 Family Friendly Event What would you do if you weren't afraid? What if you had the chance to solve the biggest community problems that mean the most to you. Would you do it? Come for a fun weekend and make a difference in the world. Did we mention you'll earn a certificate? Nov 5–7 @BAB Free, food included! Limited Spots, signup tinyurl.com/9jhaj5hc COMMUTER & TRANSFER STUDENTS National Transfer Student Week October 18–22 is National Transfer Student Week! Celebrate with us. Fill out this survey: https://bit.ly/ULTransferWeek2021. And when you’re finished, come by the Transfer Office (Houchens LL08) for FREE UL football tickets or t-shirt (while supplies last). LEADERSHIP 2022 SOSer application now open The 2022 SOSer application is now open. Apply October 18–25 on Engage. Visit uofl.me/sosers for more info. WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS Pair of matches at Lynn Stadium Men’s Soccer has two home matches this week. Tuesday at 7 p.m. the take on Oakland University for Kick or Treat Night and Friday at 7 p.m. for Senior Night against NC State. Come see the “Win at Lynn Team” Admission is free. Family Friendly Event Time to sign up for 3-on-3 Basketball The deadline to sign up for 3-on-3 Basketball is October 20 at 4:30 P.M. Games will take place the week of October 25 on the 3rd floor of the SRC. Make sure to sign up on IMLeagues.com/louisville. Would you like to play Sports Trivia? The Intramural Department is hosting a Sports Trivia event that will take place on October 26 at the SRC. Sign your team of 4 up on IMLeagues.com/louisville before October 20 at 4:30 P.M. Mindfulness Meditation Club meeting Give yourself a moment of self care & mindfulness by joining us on October 21 from 5:00pm to 6:00pm. We will be meeting in SAC W309K, or you can attend virtually by clicking on Microsoft Teams or using the QR code. We will do a guided meditation and journaling prompt together. We hope to see you there. A pair of matches at L&N Arena Come see the second ranked Volleyball team in the nation this week. You have two chances. Friday against Virginia at 7 p.m. and Sunday against Pittsburgh at 12 p.m. Promotions include the Dig Pink Match Friday and Stripe Out game Sunday. See you at L&N Federal Credit Union Arena. Family Friendly Event The BIG Homecoming game It’s Homecoming Weekend at Cardinal Stadium, Saturday 23. The Cardinals take on Boston College. Time on the game is TBA. Stay tuned for game time updates. https://gocards.com/sports/football/schedule Family Friendly Event Ice Hockey Club to host Miami University The Ice Hockey Club will face Miami University this Saturday evening at Iceland Arena. First puck drops at 7:00pm Saturday. Tickets are $7.00 with student ID at the door. Come early, dress warm, and pack the stands as the IceCards take on the Red Hawks! Wellness Watch What's the deal with calories? Come check out our short article on counting and managing calories. This is a great way to understand your health at a basic level by managing your food intake. louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness/other-programs SUSTAINABILITY Dubai Solar Decathlon competition Students interested in sustainability have a great opportunity to travel to Dubai for the Solar Decathlon Middle East (SDME) competition during November 11-24, 2021. Up to four students will be considered for sponsorship from our partner in the project, Rheem Manufacturing Company. www.teamdesertphoenix.org/contact ; www.solardecathlonme.com Sustainability Roundtable: Lou.EnergyAlliance Join the UofL Sustainability Council on 10/19 as we continue our Fall Sustainability Roundtable series on alternate Tuesdays 4:00-4:50pm on Teams. Our speaker, Lissa McCracken, will highlight the conservation work of the Louisville Energy Alliance. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/sustainability-roundtable-lissa-mccracken-louisville-energy-alliance UofL Sustainability Week, October 23–29 Engage your passions for environmental, social & economic justice! Kick off the Week with service this weekend: 10/23 Green Heart Tree Planting & Central Park Improvement Day. 10/24 UofL Community Composting. 10/25 Urban & Public Affairs Garden & Greenhouse Workday. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/uofl-sustainability-week-oct-25-31-2021 UPA Garden Workday Come help clean up the Urban & Public Affairs garden! Bring some gardening gloves and some water! The event will happen on Monday, Oct 25, from 5:00 pm till 7:00 pm. The location is at the Urban & Public Affairs Building, 426 W Bloom St, Louisville, KY 40208 louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7482857 Family Friendly Event ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. Is there a place to get medical care on campus? A. Campus Health Services is located at cardinal station (by the baseball stadium) and provides basic primary care services, insurance advocacy and more! Additionally, Campus Health provides assistance with mental health, sexual health and contraception, health education through the Health Promotion Office, alcohol education and recovery support through BRICC, and support for students dealing with power based violence, like stalking, sexual assault or intimate personal violence through PEACC. To learn more about Campus Health Services, visit: louisville.edu/campushealth DID YOU KNOW? There is a website for Off-Campus Student Services for commuting students at UofL. louisville.edu/involvement/student-organizations/off-campus CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe