[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Military /-/images/pages/2010_MILITARY_1596x740.jpg ONLINE MILITARY STUDENTS military-page organic http://louisville.edu/online/apply Military Students & Support We are proud to serve you. Are you ready to join us? The University of Louisville (UofL) is a military-friendly school that recognizes the unique challenges and circumstances faced by members of the armed forces and strives to provide the support and flexibility you need to succeed as a college student. No matter where you are in your military career—or wherever you are in the world—we bring our classroom directly to you, helping you realize your potential and accomplish your goals. Online programs at UofL are available across various industries and disciplines. Use the Online Program Finder to determine the right fit for your military or civilian career goals. Courses offered online are designated in the schedule of courses. To see online courses only, select "Distance Education" in the location field. Application Fee Waiver -- Veterans and all personnel currently serving in the Armed Forces of the United States (all branches and all components) benefit from waived application fees. Priority Registration -- All personnel currently serving in the Armed Forces of the United States (all branches and all components) benefit from priority course registration. For more details about the policies above, contact the Office of Military and Veteran Student Services. BENEFITS Military Tuition Financial Aid Credit Transfer FAQ Experience the following benefits as a military student at the University of Louisville: Waived application fees and priority registration for personnel currently serving in the Armed Forces of the United States Tuition assistance for active-duty, reserves and national guard service members who qualify Ability to return to the program after deployment assignments without penalty The opportunity to earn credit toward your degree for military experience and leadership training Access to the same faculty as our on-campus students Flexible programs that fit into your busy work and life schedule Education you can take with you anywhere, anytime Career guidance and planning services; transition assistance Networking opportunities with peers in various fields and from across the globe For more information on military benefits, visit louisville.edu/veterans or contact Carissa Gentry. REQUEST INFORMATION Scholarship Opportunity: Graduate Technology Scholarship For Military Veterans (not UofL-affiliated or endorsed) Deadlines August 15 (notified by September) December 15 (notified by March) CLEP - National Exam Reimbursement Veterans are encouraged to use Forever GI Bill®* funds to cover the cost of College Level Examination Program (CLEP) Register for exam and pay exam fee through the CLEP website Schedule testing appointment and pay administration fee to testing site Submit application for reimbursement to regional VA office *GI Bill is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) The tuition rate for Active-Duty service members and members of the Coast Guard is $250 per credit hour for undergraduate or most graduate fully online programs (some exceptions apply). Members of the Reserve and National Guard who qualify for Title X tuition assistance programs are also eligible for the $250 per credit hour rate. Service members who are not eligible for the $250 per credit hour rate pay the standard tuition rates for online courses. Service members must contact their installation Education Office or unit Education Officer for questions about military Tuition Assistant programs, and before they enroll in any program. Online Tuition Rates for Eligible Military Service Members Fully Online Program Tuition Rates Active-duty* service members and Coast Guard members $250 per credit hour Qualifying members of the Reserve Component and National Guard must be eligible for Title X (Federal) TA May be eligible for $250 rate Exceptions apply to active-duty students enrolled in fully online professional programs: Master of Business Administration $500 per credit hour ($22,500 bundled tuition) Graduate Certificate in Distilled Spirits Business $600 per credit hour Graduate Certificate in Family Business Management & Advising $600 per credit hour Graduate Certificate in Franchise Management $600 per credit hour Graduate Certificate in Horse Racing Industry Business $600 per credit hour Graduate Certificate in Managerial Analytics $600 per credit hour Master of Engineering in Engineering Management $690 per credit hour *Active-duty is defined as on orders for 180 days or more. Important Notes Service members must receive approval from an Educational Services Officer or counselor within the Military Service prior to enrolling. Contact your nearest Education Office or Education Services Officer for questions about military tuition assistance programs. Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. According with the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) recent announcement, Post-9/11 GI Bill students taking more than 50% of approved resident (physically in-person) courses (converted to online learning solely due to COVID-19) will continue to receive benefits, including Monthly Housing Allowance, at the resident rate until December 21, 2021, or until the school resumes normal operations of resident training, whichever comes first. For additional information: https://benefits.va.gov/gibill/covid19educationbenefits.asp Distance Education (Online) Courses Per the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), if you are solely enrolled in distance education (online) courses you are entitled to ½ the national Basic Allowance for Housing (BAH) average per month of full-time enrollment, which equates to $858.50 per month. In-Person or Hybrid Courses If you take one in-person or hybrid course during the semester, you are entitled to the full BAH amount of $1,497 per month of full-time enrollment. All courses are submitted to the VA based on dates of enrollment. If you are enrolled in courses that do not follow the whole semester, those courses will be certified to the VA based on the dates posted on your schedule. This could impact your housing allowance if you are eligible to receive it. For questions about use of GI Bill benefits at UofL please contact our Office of Military and Veteran Student Services: veterans@louisville.edu, (502) 852-0998. Benefits for Military Veterans The process of using your education benefits can be overwhelming, but we’re here to help you every step of the way. Visit http://louisville.edu/veterans for more information or contact Carissa Gentry. You can also find out which education benefit is best for you at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Road Map for Success. Financial Aid "Start to Finish" The University of Louisville is committed to ensuring you’re knowledgeable about all of your financial aid options. That’s why we created Start to Finish, a collection of all the information you’ll need to simplify the financial aid process and make earning a degree affordable for your family. FAFSA The cornerstone of the financial aid process is the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). File the FAFSA to determine your eligibility for need-based federal student aid. The UofL school code you’ll need when filing the FAFSA is 001999. Employer Tuition Assistance If your employer offers education benefits, we’ll work with you to ensure a smooth process. Ask your employer if benefits are available. Convenient Payment Plan We offer a convenient payment plan allowing you to make several payments throughout the semester rather than one lump sum. Scholarships If you attend KCTCS or Ivy Tech Community College (Sellersburg), you may qualify for the Academic Transfer Scholarship. Visit the transfer services website for details. Credit for Military Experience You can receive credit for military experience, working knowledge, leadership, professional development or certificate program courses you have taken previously. The online programs that currently award credit for these areas include: BS in Organizational Leadership and Learning (OLL) BS in Organizational Leadership and Learning - Healthcare Leadership (track) BS in Organizational Leadership and Learning - DLI graduates BS in Organizational Leadership and Learning - US Army Solider Support Institute qualifying graduates MS in Criminal Justice MS in HR and Organizational Development - AGCCC graduates Undergraduate Credit Transfer You may transfer credit to UofL from an accredited university*. You will submit transcripts from all undergraduate institutions you attended as part of the admissions process. Upon review, some or all credit may be applied to your degree program. You can finish your bachelor's degree program completely online by transferring the first two years of coursework from one of institutions within the Kentucky Community and Technical College System (KCTCS) or through the Kentucky Virtual Campus (KYVC). Ideally, students will transfer to UofL with a completed associate's degree from an accredited institution to maximize credit transfer*. Students who have been enrolled at a Kentucky Community and Technical College System (KCTCS) school and have fulfilled all of their general education requirements can have all of those credits transferred in block, and can then begin immediately with the upper level coursework. Students who have not completed an associate's degree but have completed most or all general education requirements may be able to complete remaining courses at UofL. Every situation is different. If you have questions about how your credit will transfer, contact an online learning consultant. *See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. Graduate Credit Transfer Generally, 6 hours of graduate credit earned from an accredited institution of higher learning (college, university) may be transferred to an online graduate program at the University of Louisville. See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. Please contact an online enrollment counselor here at UofL to learn if your particular course credits will transfer. I am on active duty. Can I take online classes at UofL? Yes! You can take online classes from anywhere in the world, provided you have consistent Internet access. I am on active duty and will receive Tuition Assistance (TA)? Will this cover the cost of online courses? If you are on active duty, all courses are $250 per credit hour for most undergraduate or graduate courses (this tuition rate is subject to change and it does not apply to the Master of Engineering in Engineering Management, Master of Business Administration or Certificate in Accounting). This is covered in full by Armed Forces Tuition Assistance (TA) offered to eligible members of the Army, Navy, Marines, Air Force, and Coast Guard. Check with your particular branch of service to determine criteria for eligibility and the application process. See more information on our Tuition for Military Students page and Financial Aid for Military Students page for active duty military and veterans. I am a military veteran. Can I use my benefits at UofL? Yes, we will work with you to ensure you receive all benefits eligible to you. Visit our Office of Military and Veteran Student Services for details. You can also find out which education benefit is best for you at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Road Map for Success. See more information on our Tuition for Military Students page and Financial Aid for Military Students page for active duty military and veterans. I have credit from several institutions. Will my credit transfer? The University of Louisville accepts credit from an accredited institution. Find out if your school is accredited at the U.S. Department of Education’s database. You may also receive credit from work and experience during your service in the military. If you have specific questions about how your credit will transfer or need further assistance, please submit an Information Request Form. See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy and Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. I am stationed at Fort Knox. Can I take classes on base? Yes! The Department of Educational Leadership, Evaluation, and Organizational Development offers a Bachelor of Science in Organizational Leadership and Learning, and a Master of Science in Human Resources and Organization Development at Fort Knox. All courses are available on-site as well as online. The Bachelor of Science in Organizational Leadership and Learning offers you the opportunity to earn up to 48 credit hours, free of charge, through work experience and military training. This program is a SOCAD affiliate approved program. To learn more about programs and courses offered at Fort Knox, contact 502.852.6444. BENEFITS Military Tuition Financial Aid Credit Transfer FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link