Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Human Resources Navigation Home Benefits Medical Coverage Dental Vision Life Tuition Remission Retirement Additional Benefits Types of Leave Flexible Spending Pharmacy Long Term Disability Short Term Disability Benefits Definitions Benefits Specialists COBRA Optum BenefitsBenefits Dropdown Toggle Medical Coverage Dental Vision Life Tuition Remission Retirement Additional Benefits Types of Leave Flexible Spending Pharmacy Long Term Disability Short Term Disability Benefits Definitions Benefits Specialists COBRA Optum Compensation Compensation and Total Rewards Study Job Description Instructions Compensation Analysts UofL Compensation & Benefits Survey FAQs Compensation & Total Rewards Study Timeline Compensation & Benefits Employee Input Survey CompensationCompensation Dropdown Toggle Compensation and Total Rewards Study Job Description Instructions Compensation Analysts UofL Compensation & Benefits Survey FAQs Compensation & Total Rewards Study Timeline Compensation & Benefits Employee Input Survey Employment Jobs at UofL New Employee Onboarding Manager Resources Employment Verification HR Business Partners Exit Surveys Contact Employment EmploymentEmployment Dropdown Toggle Jobs at UofL New Employee Onboarding Manager Resources Employment Verification HR Business Partners Exit Surveys Contact Employment Employee Relations Campus Accessibility Page Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Formal ADA Complaint Procedure Improvement Plans Unemployment Compensation Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Requirements and Procedures EEO/Affirmative Action Grievances Performance Evaluation Labor Law Posters Certification of Completion - Title IX Certification of Completion - Discriminatory Harassment COVID-19 Unemployment FAQs Kentucky Unemployment Fraud Information Workday Employee RelationsEmployee Relations Dropdown Toggle Campus Accessibility Page Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Formal ADA Complaint Procedure Improvement Plans Unemployment Compensation Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Requirements and Procedures EEO/Affirmative Action Grievances Performance Evaluation Labor Law Posters Certification of Completion - Title IX Certification of Completion - Discriminatory Harassment COVID-19 Unemployment FAQs Kentucky Unemployment Fraud Information Workday Get Healthy Now Employee Success Center Policies The University of Louisville Policy Statement as a Drug-Free Institution Definitions PoliciesPolicies Dropdown Toggle The University of Louisville Policy Statement as a Drug-Free Institution Definitions Forms Contact Us HRtalks and HRlistens Employee Resources Benefits Design Workgroup UofL Event Calendar Employee ResourcesEmployee Resources Dropdown Toggle Benefits Design Workgroup UofL Event Calendar Workday Home / Benefits / Retirement Retirement IRS Announcement: the IRS increased the contribution limits to $20,500 for retirement plans in 2022. Review the TIAA 2022 IRS contribution limits flyer to learn more. Pre-Retirement (Current Employees) It is never too early to start planning for your future and your retirement. The University of Louisville retirement savings plans are available to offer you the opportunity to save for a source of income in your retirement, in addition to Social Security and other savings you may have. 403(b) Planning Option The University of Louisville is here to help you plan for your future. The UofL 403(b) Retirement Savings Plan is a defined contribution plan (described under section 403(b) on the Internal Revenue Code (IRC)), that enables faculty and staff to save money for retirement. 457(b) Planning Option The university offers a 457(b) Retirement Plan as an additional tax-deferred retirement plan option for eligible employees. To enroll in this plan and make tax-deferred contributions, follow the 457(b) enrollment instructions below. If you have questions about this plan, please email retplan@louisville.edu or call 502-852-6258. View more information on our retirement saving plan options along with resources to provide guidance on what works best for you or attend retirement workshops and webinars hosted by our financial partners Fidelity and TIAA! Retirement Eligibility The University of Louisville does not have a mandatory retirement age for faculty, staff, or administrators. For eligibility and steps to planning for retirement, visit our Retirement Eligibility and Steps webpage. Retiree Life Insurance We are pleased to offer University of Louisville retirees additional options for life insurance coverage. At retirement, you will have the opportunity to purchase Supplemental (additional) coverage in the amount of $5,000, $10,000, $15,000, $20,000 and $25,000. The cost of additional coverage above $5,000 will be based on your age and the level of coverage you choose. See the Retirement Benefits Guide for rates. MetLife Retiree Certificate (PDF) If you have questions about or need additional information concerning your premium payments, you may contact Optum at 1-855-687-2021. Post Retirement (Retired Employees) Even though our valued retirees may no longer work for the university, we still work closely to provide the best post-retirement experience for them. We strive to take care of our employees on campus, as well as when they part and become our extended family. View the 2022 Retirement Guide. View the Optum HRtalks-Direct Bill training recording. Review the Optum registration instructions for direct bill. View and complete the Optum ACH form. Optum Financial Direct Bill Customer Service: 1-855-687-2021. Pre 65 Retirees Retirees under the age of 65 who want to continue coverage under the university's benefit plan as they retire from the university are able to do so. Pre-65 retirees can continue to participate in their university benefit plan until they reach the age of 65. Retirees under 65 are also eligible to participate in the Get Healthy Now program and receive discounted medical plan rates. Please visit our Retiree Medical Plan Rates webpage to view plan option and rates. Note: After your last paycheck from the university, you will begin receiving billing statements for your premiums at the retiree health rates directly from Optum. Optum will bill for health, dental, vision and life insurance premiums. You will be responsible to pay these premiums to Optum going forward to maintain your benefits coverage. Failure to pay these premiums will result in loss of coverage and you will lose the ability to re-enroll during future open enrollment periods. To avoid missing payments, we recommend the auto payment (ACH) option with Optum. To set up ACH, complete the Optum ACH form or call Optum Financial Direct Bill Customer Service at 1-855-687-2021. If you have questions about your retirement health benefits, contact Carol Zehnder. If you have questions about your Get Healthy Now incentive, contact Tamara Iacono. Post 65 Retirees Retirees and spouses/QA over age 65 are Medicare eligible and must transition from the university health plan to Medicare. This transition will happen at the time of retirement if you are already age 65 or as you approach your 65th birthday. To help cover some of the costs not covered by Medicare Part B, the university provides retirees access to an AARP Medicare Part B Supplement plan. While you are responsible for paying a monthly premium for this supplement plan, the university will provide a contribution to lower the overall cost of this plan to retirees ($108.10/month for individual or $216.20/month if you have an eligible spouse/QA). Note: If you were under the age of 65 at the time of retirement, you must contact the UofL Benefits office three months prior to your 65th birthday to begin your transition from the university health plan to Medicare and the AARP Medicare Part B Supplement Plan. Want to understand more about the transition to Medicare? Contact Health Advocate at 866-799-2731 and they can assist you in your transition! Social Security For specific questions about Social Security, please contact the Louisville Social Security Administration Office at 1-866-716-9671. Additional contact information and directions on how to apply for social security benefit online may be found at www.ssa.gov. You may also visit the local Social Security Administration Office at the following addresses 1. Social Security Administration Office 601 W. Broadway Room 101 Louisville, KY 40202 2. Social Security Administration Office 10503 Timberwood Circle Suite 50 Louisville, Ky 40223 Resources Continuation of Benefits Form University E-mail Account Retirement Policy (PER 6.03) Will Preparation Services Estate Probate Services MetLife Retiree Certificate of Coverage ULARP Benefits Medical Prescription Drugs Dental Vision Life Insurance Flexible Spending Accounts Health Reimbursement Accounts Short-term Disability Long-term Disability Retirement Education Benefits Qualifying Life Events Time Off Wellness Leaving the University Other Benefits Benefit Forms Contact Benefits © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville