No images? Click here May 24, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews UofL student vaccination contest Current students who can show proof of being fully vaccinated by May 25 will be eligible to win a prize from the university. Click on the link below to submit your name, student ID number, university email address and vaccine date(s). For UofL students only. https://louisville.edu/studentaffairs/forms/vaccination/ SRC Memorial Day schedule The Student Recreation Center will be closed Sunday, May 30 and Monday, May 31 in observance of Memorial Day. The SRC will re-open at 9:00 AM, Tuesday, June 1. @ulsrc louisville.edu/intramurals All Sports Club will restart soon It is anticipated that all Sports Club will soon be allowed to restart activities. Clubs will be available in competitive team, instructional, and social areas. Please check our website regularly for updates, including contact information and meeting times. Fencing Club In the SRC The Fencing Club offers high-level instruction in all disciplines of the sport. Educational sessions are conducted in supervised, structured, and safe conditions. Practices are held on Monday and Wednesday evenings, and Saturday mornings in the SRC. louisville.edu/intramurals/sports-clubs Badminton Club In the SRC The Badminton Club meets on Friday evenings in the SRC from 6-9pm on the upstairs gym floor courts. Professional instruction and open play is available in a low-key, inclusive environment. See our website for contact information. louisville.edu/intramurals/sports-clubs What’s up with that garden by Strickler Hall? Yes, it’s for you…and everybody! Garden Commons is a space to explore the joys of growing food sustainably without chemicals, fossil fuels, GMOs, or exploitation. Free samples anytime - it’s strawberry, asparagus & salad season! Group workdays Fridays noon-1. Fitness staff opportunities Intramural sports is looking for students who are certified personal trainers or group fitness instructor or are interested in becoming personal trainers or group fitness instructors. If interested please contact Kat at 852-6707. Now hiring lifeguards for UOfL Golf Club UOfL Golf Club has immediate openings for lifeguards to work at their outdoor pool this summer. Interested candidates should reach out to Seth Boone at Seth@gocards.com for information and application instructions as soon as possible! Q. What is the UofL Student Advocate? A. The Student Advocate helps students navigate educational, personal, and other obstacles that affect their ability to succeed in college. The Student Advocate also assists with compassionate withdrawals. If you have a question or concern, you can bring it to the Student Advocate by emailing advocate@louisville.edu. The UofL ConcernCenter is designed to help you find resources on campus based on various concerns. Go to: https://louisville.concerncenter.com CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe