[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Master's Degree Programs / Online Master of Science in Health Administration /-/images/pages/2010_MSHA_1596x740.jpg Grow your capacity to lead healthcare. msha msha-program-page organic ../../programs/masters/online-master-of-science-in-health-administration?tab=apply Erin Elrod Online Enrollment Counselor Online Master of Science in Health Administration UofL’s online Master of Science in Health Administration (MSHA) is designed for aspiring healthcare executives or leaders with 5+ years of experience within the industry, who are looking to broaden their core healthcare management competencies and/or pursue career advancement applying the principles of population health management. UofL’s online master’s in health administration prepares you to confidently lead healthcare organizations into the future. Implementing our reputable CAHME-accredited curriculum and taught by leaders in healthcare innovation, the online MSHA courses will explore broad principles and important influencers within top healthcare organizations, examine data-driven methods of strategic leadership and effective management, analyze external policy and healthcare environments that affect management, and more. Overall, the MSHA program builds on your experience and depends your understanding of processes, environments, structures, and strategies that are disrupting the industry as well as focusing on assessments that emphasize solving authentic, real-life challenges you face within your current role. The online master’s in health administration is offered through the School of Public Health and Information Sciences at the University of Louisville. MSHA Info Session: Tuesday, June 14 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. ET Don't miss out! Join UofL's Dept. of Health Management & Systems Sciences for a virtual information session to learn about the online Master's in Health Administration and other health programs offered. To RSVP and receive the Microsoft Teams link, email Jordan Fries. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Highlights Skip the GRE - it's not required for admission. Learn on your schedule with flexible and 100% online courses. Gain applicable and transferable healthcare knowledge and methodologies through every course. Take advantage of recently lowered tuition to join a quality CAHME-accredited program that is now more affordable. Experience a specialized curriculum using UofL’s Population Health Leadership (PHL) Competency Model—a modified version of the National Center for Healthcare Leadership (NCHL) Competency Model. Complete your degree in just 2 years with 8-week terms (courses completed 2-3 at a time). Part-time enrollment is also available. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Accreditation UofL’s School of Public Health and Information Sciences is accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health. UofL's online MSHA program is accredited by the Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Management Education (CAHME). CAHME is the accrediting body for graduate programs in health management in the United States. 100% ONLINE COURSEWORK Complete your degree on your own time through fully online coursework. Learn More 57 CREDIT HOURS Complete 21 courses to earn your Health Administration degree. Learn More 2 YEAR PROGRAM Take courses 2 at a time, in 8-week increments—earn your degree in 2 years. Healthcare is evolving. You should be too. From technology and analytics to standards of patient care, healthcare is continuously evolving and growing as an industry. As a healthcare administrator, you’re responsible for leading the charge in embracing these changes. Our online program—specialized for working professionals with 5+ years leadership experience in the field—is designed to help you take on that challenge. Why earn a master's in health administration? A Health Administration master’s degree is a must-have for those pursuing higher level health care leadership roles. The online MSHA program at UofL can give you the expertise you need to advance into a healthcare executive position (e.g. senior director, VP, CEO, etc.). The online Master of Science in Health Administration degree will prepare you for organizational leadership and management roles, whether your experience is in a healthcare-related or non-healthcare related field. Positions range from healthcare administrator, military officer, civil service or health insurance to dental, veterinary or Allied Health care provider. As a leader in any healthcare industry, you’ll be responsible for overseeing and managing services, programs, staff, budgets, facilities, external relations and more. Leading in healthcare is especially advantageous. With an aging population and increased demand for services, healthcare occupations are expected to grow 14% between 2018 and 2028, adding around 1.9 million jobs in that same period – faster than the average growth compared to all occupations (bls.gov). As a graduate of our program, you’ll be equipped to: Manage strategic projects and action plans in healthcare organizations Assess institutional financial and healthcare delivery performance Examine community healthcare needs per industry standards Model accountability with respect to compliance in policy, and regulation and ethical codes of conduct Analyze organizational needs based on clinical and financial data Will this program prepare students for certifications? Our graduates are prepared to pursue board certifications through the American College of Healthcare Executives (ACHE), meeting both the education requirements and depth of knowledge to successfully complete the certification exams. After graduating from this program, you will also have the opportunity to pursue MGMA, AAMA and/or HFMA certification. REQUEST INFORMATION START YOUR APPLICATION Preferred Application Deadline Term Start July 1 Fall I August September 1 Fall II October December 1 Spring I January February 1 Spring II March May 1 Summer May Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete application for admission through UofL Graduate School Submit $65 non-refundable application fee Submit official transcripts of all undergraduate and graduate work from accredited institutions* Participate in admission interview with HMSS Leadership Committee Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Qualifying Experience for the Program Requirement: Positions in any healthcare provider, technician, administrator, etc. that serves patients, staff, and/or community members Military Service (Commissioned or Non-commissioned Officer) Federal, State, and/or Municipal civil service Service in medical equipment, supplies, construction or maintenance. Service in health insurance or managed care. Service in medial logistics or pharmaceuticals Dental, Veterinary, Preventative Medicine, Occupational Health, and other Allied Health occupations Don't have 5+ years of experience? You may qualify for the on-campus Master of Science in Health Administration program. Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution* 5+ years of experience within a healthcare organization or system, leadership preferred but not required Minimum undergraduate GPA of 3.0 Updated resume or curriculum vitae (admissions committee will review for leadership/management experience) Three recommendations from individuals who can speak to the applicant’s academic or professional capabilities One-page personal statement written by the applicant that is a clear, substantive description of his or her goals in public health and health care management Note: GRE not required for admission. Credit Transfer You may transfer up to six credit hours of coursework from an accredited college or university.* *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. International Applicants The Health Administration master’s program is open to international students. If you live outside of the United States and intend to complete an online academic program from your home country, be sure to review the additional requirements for international students. Students whose primary language is not English must show English language proficiency by attaining one of the following: TOEFL test score of 90 or higher (after conversion for test type), OR Submitting an ECFMG (Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates) certification, OR Successful completion of the exit examination for the advanced level of the Intensive English as a Second Language (IESL) program, OR Duolingo English test score of 105 or higher Demonstration of a degree from an accredited U.S. institution (requires provisional admission with evaluation of English language competency) For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselors at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. The online Master of Science in Health Administration is a 57-credit hour program, broken down into 21 courses. The curriculum is consistently updated and approved by local, regional and national organizations including Baptist Health, Humana, Kentucky Hospital Association, Louisville Metropolitan Health and Wellness, Norton Healthcare, University of Louisville Health System and Veterans Health Administration. Course List Credit Hours PHMS 505 Governance and Management of Healthcare Organizations 3 PHMS 509 Health Finance and Financial Management 3 PHMS 523 Public Health in the U.S. 3 PHMS 610 Health Policy and Analysis 3 PHMS 615 Introduction to Health Systems 3 PHMS 620 Healthcare Strategic Management 2 PHMS 625 Population Health Management 3 PHMS 630 Human Resource Management in the Public Health Sector 3 PHMS 635 Health Law and Ethics 3 PHMS 662 Health Economics 3 PHMS 680 Health Management Leadership Seminar 1 PHMS 681 Population Health Quantitative Methods 3 PHMS 682 Population Health Information Management 3 PHMS 683 Healthcare Quality Management 3 PHMS 684 Project Management for Population Health 2 PHMS 685 Health Operations Management and Science 3 PHMS 687 Managerial Accounting for Healthcare Managers 3 PHMS 688 Healthcare Marketing 2 PHMS 689 Insurance and Alternative Payment Models 2 PHMS 690 MSHA Capstone 3 PHMS 694 Current Topics in Health Administration 3 Total Minimum Credit Hours Required 57 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Faculty To be accepted into the MSHA, do I need a bachelor’s degree in a healthcare-related field? No! You can apply to the program with a bachelor’s degree in any field, as long as you have 5+ years of experience in a healthcare leadership role. (If you’re not sure whether your experience qualifies you, send your resume to us at online@louisville.edu and we’re more than happy to help!) If I am a physician, nurse, or other licensed healthcare provider, is this program right for me? Absolutely! One of the prime reasons that we developed the online MSHA program was to provide working healthcare clinical professionals that opportunity to earn a graduate healthcare management degree and obtain focused, critical leadership and management competency development to more effectively serve in leadership positions within healthcare organizations. What type of experience meets the program requirements? This program is designed for a wide range of organizational leadership and management roles, as well as a variety of health and non-health industries. The experience requirement includes: Positions with any healthcare provider, technician, administrator, etc. that serves patients, staff, and/or community members Military Service (Commissioned or Non-commissioned Officer) Federal, State, and/or Municipal civil service Service in medical equipment, supplies, construction or maintenance Service in health insurance or managed care Service in medical logistics or pharmaceuticals Dental, Veterinary, Preventative Medicine, Occupational Health, and other Allied Health occupations What if I missed the application deadline? We encourage you to still apply! Our admissions are rolling and we offer multiple chances to get started on your degree. The main starts are in August, January and May, but you can also start in October and March. Do courses meet at a specific time? All classes for the online MSHA are asynchronous, meaning they don’t meet at a set time. However, there may be course elements or deliverables (such as office hours, 1:1 professor and student conferences, etc.) that require a specific time and date to be chosen. These will be at the course instructor’s discretion and will take your schedule into account. Can I complete the program as a part-time student? Yes, the online MSHA program is available as both a part-time and full-time program. The full-time schedule requires students to take 2 courses at a time every 8 weeks, with the degree being completed in 2 years (note: you will take 3 courses at a time for just 1 term). Part-time enrollment gives you the flexibility to take 1-2 courses at a time, every 8 weeks, as your schedule allows. Degree completion time will depend on number of courses taken at once. View the MSHA course list for more course information. Can I take courses both online and on-campus? Due to the way UofL’s on-campus MSHA and online MSHA programs are structured, you cannot take a combination of online and on-campus courses. You will need to choose and enroll in one of the two options. However, if you start in one format and decide you’d be better suited for the other, you are allowed to switch your coursework entirely from online to on-campus or vice versa. What’s the difference between the on-campus and online programs? The primary difference between UofL’s online and on-campus MSHA program is that you need 5+ years of healthcare experience to qualify for the online format. This is an important distinction because of the variance in student experience and the types of discussions those experiences may illicit. With regard to content and faculty expertise, both the online and on-campus MSHA programs are CAHME-accredited. The only difference in coursework is the required practicum for the on-campus program has been eliminated for the online program, as the online program is designed for working healthcare leaders and professionals who are experiencing the industry firsthand every day. What does the admissions interview process look like? After you apply, if you meet all the admissions criteria, you’ll be contacted by the MSHA team for an interview. The interview will be conducted via Skype at a time that works best for you, and is really about checking to make sure the online MSHA is the right fit. There’s no trick or games, it’s really just a confirmation that you’re on the right track and prepared to succeed in the program! Will this degree prepare me to get board certified? Yes! The FACHE certification exam through ACHE requires a master’s degree. Therefore, the online MSHA degree prepares you with both the qualifications you need to take the exam, as well as the competencies/knowledge you need to pass it. You’ll also be prepared to apply for MGMA, AAMA and HFMA certification, as relevant to your career trajectory. Does this program award Continuing Education Units (CEU) credits? No, at this time you cannot receive CEU credits for completing coursework through the MSHA program at UofL. The graduate application page lists MSHA under the SOPHAS application requirement. Do I need to submit that? No. While SOPHAS is required for our resident program, the online MSHA program does not require a SOPHAS application to be submitted. Please review our application requirements for the online MSHA program for more details on what we require for acceptance. Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link