Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection RedMed Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection RedMed Plone Menu School of Medicine Homepage Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Facebook Academics About Us Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni & Visitors About Us View Our Mission & Goals Strategic Plan Office of the Dean Accreditation Academic Departments Affiliated Institutes Future Students View All Future Students Information Admissions: School of Medicine Financial Aid: School of Medicine Student Affairs Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Programs & Degrees Distinction Track Program Integrated Programs in Biomedical Sciences (IPIBS) eQuality Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Financial Aid Student Affairs Academic Technology Office Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Distinction Track Program Integrated Programs in Biomedical Sciences (IPIBS) Office of Community Engagement and Diversity Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Faculty Affairs SoM Marketing & Communications Academic Technology Office Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Academic Departments UofL Faculty Mentoring Program and Resources UofL Faculty Handbook UofL Emergency Management Residents & Fellows View All Residents & Fellows Information Residency Programs Fellowships Programs & Degrees School of Medicine Admissions Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Academic Technology Office Student Affairs Office of the Dean Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Contact us Alumni & Visitors View All Alumni & Visitors Information Giving to the School of Medicine School of Medicine News Releases Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Office of the Dean Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Fellowships Contact us Research Research Information School of Medicine News Releases Cancer Research Research at the Health Sciences Center Medical Education Research Unit Clinical Trials Open at UofL Clinical Trials Unit Research Laboratories Contact us Patient Care Patient Care Information Pediatric Medicine Cardiovascular Care Ear, Nose, and Throat Eye Care Specialists Family Medicine Geriatric Care Primary Care OBGYN Services Surgery Sports Medicine Find a Physician 502-588-6000 View all services Outreach Community Outreach Information Kentucky Area Health Education Centers (AHEC) SoM Office of Community Engagement and Diversity HSC Office of Diversity and Inclusion Kentucky Cancer Program Clubs and Organizations Free Clinics Depression Center Outreach & Education Giving Home/ Affiliated Institutions Affiliated Institutions The Ackerly Child Psychiatric Service This is an 18-bed inpatient unit located in Norton Children’s Hospital. It opened in 1975 under the Child Psychiatric Services of the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences for children up to age 17 needing diagnostic evaluation or short-term treatment for emotional problems. All patients are involved in a school program, art and activity therapy, and individual therapy, as well as group, family and medication therapy as needed. Faculty from the Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences are directly involved in providing services to the inpatients. The Bingham Clinic Located on the second floor of Norton Hospital at 200 East Chestnut, this clinic is under the professional supervision of the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences of the School of Medicine and is part of the postgraduate training program in child psychiatry. The Clinic is financially supported by several local agencies, such as the Metro United Way and WHAS Crusade for Children, and by department funds of the Department of Psychiatry. The clinic is the fourth oldest Child Guidance Clinic in the nation, and is an approved training center for psychiatrists, medical students, psychologists, social workers, nurses, and school teachers. Frazier Rehab Institute In conjunction with the University of Louisville School of Medicine, Frazier Rehab Institute conducts a residency program in physical medicine and rehabilitation. Frazier Rehab Institute, a 135-bed, acute rehab hospital, is housed in the new, 15-story, state-of-the-art Frazier Rehab and Neuroscience Center located at 220 Abraham Flexner Way in the Jewish Hospital Medical Campus in downtown Louisville, Ky. Along with medical care and rehab nursing, this rehab hospital offers physical, occupational and speech therapies, therapeutic recreation, psychology and neuropsychological testing services to each patient in the acute care, inpatient and outpatient rehab settings at this location. Additionally, Frazier Rehab Institute has a large network of 21 community-based, outpatient rehab sites in Kentucky and southern Indiana. Jewish Hospital This not-for-profit, 442 - bed, medical-surgical specialty hospital is located in the Louisville Medical Center one block from the Medical School, and was the site of the world's first and second AbioCor Totally Implantable Replacement Heart procedures and the world's first successful hand transplant. The hospital is a regional referral center recognized for quality, highly specialized medical and nursing care, and is the flagship of a health network consisting of more than 71 facilities throughout Kentucky and southern Indiana. Jewish Hospital's mission is to provide health care services of world - class quality to all people, emphasizing research, education, and technology. Consistent with this mission, Jewish Hospital has a formal relationship with the University Of Louisville School Of Medicine involving training and research projects. Together we have pioneered medical firsts that have made lifesaving differences to the people of this region and beyond. In addition to the AbioCor and hand transplant projects, the hospital's many milestones include the world's first successful double-limb replantation, first minimally invasive saphenous vein harvest and first successful heart transplant following the use of a Thoratec ventricular assist device. Students, interns, and residents work with clinical faculty who are in private practice in internal medicine and surgery. A full-time faculty member based at the hospital supervises each program. Jewish Hospital is, also, the home of the University Hand Surgery Team, which trains residents and fellows in this specialty; one of the training sites for residents in surgery; and the facility at which kidney, heart, lung, liver, and pancreas transplants are performed by the school's faculty. The Thomas Cardiovascular Laboratory, located in Jewish Hospital, is utilized as a teaching site for cardiac catheterization. Norton Children's Hospital Kosair Crippled Children Hospital and Norton-Children's Hospitals Inc. consolidated in May 1981 to form Kosair Children's Hospital. Kosair Children's Hospital opened the doors of its new, innovative hospital less than one block from the medical school in December 1986. In 2016, the hospital was named Norton Children’s Hospital and today serves as the major pediatric referral, diagnostic, and treatment center for Kentucky and Southern Indiana and is the only full-service freestanding children's hospital in the state of Kentucky. With its bed capacity of 253, Norton Children's serves as the major medical, surgical, and inpatient psychiatric pediatric facility for the University of Louisville and its Department of Pediatrics with a full complement of students and residents. The hospital includes a state-of-the-art neonatal intensive care unit with ECMO (artificial lung) capabilities and pediatric cardiac, bone marrow and kidney transplant programs. Norton Hospital Norton Hospital is an innovative teaching and patient care facility with 384 medical, surgical, and obstetrical beds plus the Norton Psychiatric Clinic (a 36-bed inpatient unit with significant outpatient activity operated with a closed staff of University faculty). The Norton Healthcare Louisville Medical Center campus, which is about 1 1/2 blocks from the Medical School, provides opportunity for educating students and residents in a private patient setting. Active education programs in anesthesiology, medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, pathology, psychiatry, radiology, and surgery are directed mainly by full-time faculty members of the University of Louisville. Norton Audubon Hospital Norton Audubon Hospital is a 484-bed, full service-acute care medical center providing a continuum of highly specialized services. The hospital opened in 1980 as a replacement facility for St. Joseph Infirmary. Since that time Norton Audubon Hospital has established a reputation for leadership through the development of the Norton Heart Institute, a Laser Surgery Center, and a Sleep Disorders Center. The full scope of services offered by the facility provides the atmosphere for training of students and residents in a private patient setting. Through affiliation agreements with the University of Louisville, Norton Audubon is a designated teaching hospital for both general internal medicine and cardiology programs. Trover Clinic The Trover Clinic is an off-campus teaching center of the University of Louisville. The facility, which includes a 401 bed hospital and 120 physicians, is playing a focal role in the School's generalist physician efforts. An increasing number of students are receiving training at the clinic and its related satellites. In addition to the excellent patient volume and medical staff, this location provides a different orientation to the delivery of medical care and demonstrates to the students and residents the excellent quality of care that can be rendered in a small to medium size community. Graduates of UofL's Trover Clinic programs are overwhelmingly choosing to locate their post-graduate practice in rural and/or underserved communities. University of Louisville Hospital The University of Louisville Hospital serves as the major teaching hospital for University of Louisville students and house officers. This new hospital opened in l983 and is part of a medical complex which includes both in-patient hospital services and out-patient services located in the Ambulatory Care Building. Clinical faculty offices are incorporated within the complex. Academic responsibility for the hospital is vested in the Vice President for Health Affairs who is also the Dean of the School of Medicine and Chief of Staff for the hospital. University of Louisville Hospital is a modern 404-bed acute and trauma care hospital. The hospital provides a full range of diagnostic, therapeutic, emergency and surgical services. It houses Kentucky's first Level One Trauma Center and has a 24-hour helicopter emergency medical service. The Veterans Administration Medical Center This facility is located about three miles east of the downtown Medical School campus. It has a capacity of 369 beds with an average daily census of 300 patients and provides over 80,000 ambulatory care visits per year. Members of the professional staff have full faculty appointments in the School of Medicine. The VA Medical Center furnishes a large and varied flow of inpatients and outpatients for study and is approved for over 80 residency positions in medicine, surgery, psychiatry, and most of the specialties and sub-specialities dealing with adult patients. The addition of this Medical Center to the educational facilities of the School has not only increased the clinical opportunities available to students and for graduates to train for their specialty boards, but also has brought an increased number of highly trained physicians to our faculty. The VA Medical Center provides opportunities and support for major research activities for faculty. The close affiliation between the VA Medical Center and the School of Medicine is fostered by monthly meetings of the Dean's Committee, made up of those representatives from both institutions responsible for patient care, education and research activities at the VA Medical Center. Tweet School of Medicine Abell Administration Building 323 East Chestnut Street Louisville, KY 40202 Office Hours M-F 8:00 am to 5:00 pm No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Medicine. Social Media Facebook Twitter Linkedin © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville