No images? Click here December 6, 2021 Good luck with exams! To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews SGA NEWS Free academic resources Come to the SGA tabling event on Monday, Dec. 6 between 12 and 2 p.m. in the SAC across from Chick-fil-A and grab free scantrons, blue and green books, and pencils for finals. AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Nominate your Faculty Favorite today Was there a TA, staff or faculty member that made a difference in your learning this semester? Give them a virtual high five by nominating them for UofL's Faculty Favorite Award. The nomination period is now open. Submit your nominations today. STUDY ABROAD Receive a FREE U.S. Passport If you are a current freshman, receive the Federal Pell Grant and have never had a U.S. passport before - apply to receive a free one! Answer four easy questions to save $145 and have access to the world. louisville.edu/studyabroad/resources/passport-initiative-application/view WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS Group fitness finals week schedule Tuesday: 5pm Yoga, Rm 201 5pm Zumba, Rm 200 6:15pm Cycle, Rm 204 Wednesday: 5pm Yoga, Rm 201 6:15pm Hard Core Abs, Rm 204 6:15pm Cycle, Rm 204 Thursday: 9:30am Cycle, Rm 204 5:30pm Broga, 3rd Floor 5:30pm Zumba, Rm 200 louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness Cancer Awareness & Greek Night at the Yum! The Men’s Basketball team hosts DePaul Friday night at 8 p.m. Promotions include free tank tops for the first 200 Greek member students that check-in, free Cancer Awareness sticker sheets, and themed posters, and a halftime recognition of cancer survivors in the community. uofl.me/mbbstudenttix Battle of the Bluegrass on Sunday The Women’s Basketball team rounds out the weekend at the Yum Center against Kentucky. Tip-off is scheduled for 1 p.m. Sunday. Promotions include Spirit Day, and admission is free for all students. gocards.com/calendar Bowl Pick Em contest Intramural Sports will be having a college football Bowl Pick Em contest. The contest will be completely online. Keep an eye on our website for more details once the bowl schedule is announced. louisville.edu/intramurals SRC holiday hours The SRC will operate under a modified schedule. Starting Tuesday, Dec. 7 hours will be weekdays 9 AM to 9 PM, Saturdays 11AM to 5 PM and Sundays 1 PM to 7 PM. On Friday, Dec. 17 we will close at 5 PM and remain closed until Monday, Jan. 3 at 9 AM. louisville.edu/intramurals HSC Fitness Center holiday schedule The HSC Fitness Center will maintain regular hours of operation until Friday, Dec. 7 when it will close at 5 PM and will remain closed until Monday, Jan. 3 when it will re-open at 6 AM. louisville.edu/intramurals JOB OPPORTUNITIES RA Position Openings Apply to be an RA now! Campus Housing is hiring for 12 month positions from May 2022–May 2023 and 10 month positions from August 2022–May 2023. Applications will close on January 14, 2022 at 8:00am. Applications are now live on Handshake. louisville.joinhandshake.com/jobs/5571699?ref=preview-header-click OTHER NEWS Speak up Are you graduating this semester? Check your UofL email and fill out the Graduating Student Survey (GSS) to tell us about your UofL experience! This important survey helps us improve all that UofL has to offer. Your voice matters! Survey closes 12/17/2021. The White Squirrel submissions Deadline extended to January 1. Prose, Poetry, Art by Students wanted for The White Squirrel 2022 Issue. 100$ to best submissions. Submit and find guidelines here: linktr.ee/thewhitesquirrel ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I am a member of the LGBTQ community and I am looking for resources and support. A. You should definitely check out the LGBT Center, which serves a resource for all students, faculty, staff, alumni, and guests and aims to create a safe, inclusive community for everyone regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity/expression. The LGBT Center provides groups and organizations, a living-learning community, volunteer opportunities, study abroad, and event programming. For more information visit http://louisville.edu/lgbt/, email lgbt@louisville.edu, or call (502) 852-5861. DID YOU KNOW? There is a Career Development Center with all kinds of helpful tools available for students such as Cards Career Connection, part time job search, career fairs, "Resume Review," assessments, and more. Go to: http://louisville.edu/career CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe