Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Adult & Transfer Services Navigation Home Why UofL? Academics Visit Campus Online Learning Campus Resources First Year Initiatives Student Activities Board Recognized Student Organizations (RSOs) Athletics Why UofL?Why UofL? Dropdown Toggle Academics Visit Campus Online Learning Campus Resources First Year Initiatives Student Activities Board Recognized Student Organizations (RSOs) Athletics Cost & Aid Tuition and Fees Cost Calculator Transfer & Adult Scholarships Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Residency Housing & Residence Life Dining Services Cost & AidCost & Aid Dropdown Toggle Tuition and Fees Cost Calculator Transfer & Adult Scholarships Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Residency Housing & Residence Life Dining Services Apply Now How to Transfer Transfer Checklist Academic Unit Admission Criteria Admission Petition Application Fee Waiver Residency Fresh Start Policy Apply NowApply Now Dropdown Toggle How to Transfer Transfer Checklist Academic Unit Admission Criteria Admission Petition Application Fee Waiver Residency Fresh Start Policy Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Reverse Degree Credit by Exam KCTCS Degree Pathways Transfer CreditTransfer Credit Dropdown Toggle Transfer Credit Reverse Degree Credit by Exam KCTCS Degree Pathways Adult Students Adult First-time Freshman Adult Returning Student Project Graduate Senior Citizen Student Adult StudentsAdult Students Dropdown Toggle Adult First-time Freshman Adult Returning Student Project Graduate Senior Citizen Student ULtra Benefits of ULtra JCTC (Future UofL) Students Programs & Events Contact & Office Hours FAQs KCTCS Transfer Degree Pathways ULtraULtra Dropdown Toggle Benefits of ULtra JCTC (Future UofL) Students Programs & Events Contact & Office Hours FAQs KCTCS Transfer Degree Pathways Veterans Applying for Tuition Assistance Campus Resource Team Cost of Attendance Applying for G I Bill Benefits Course Certification for Veterans Benefits Military Spouse Info Official Military Transcripts Student Services Veterans Contact Us New Student Checklist Request for Military Withdrawl Application Fee Waiver for Veterans VeteransVeterans Dropdown Toggle Applying for Tuition Assistance Campus Resource Team Cost of Attendance Applying for G I Bill Benefits Course Certification for Veterans Benefits Military Spouse Info Official Military Transcripts Student Services Veterans Contact Us New Student Checklist Request for Military Withdrawl Application Fee Waiver for Veterans FAQs Contact Us Home / Why UofL? Why Choose UofL? W3.CSS 1. To be your best, surround yourself with the best Our students are among the most academically renowned in the U.S. UofL is one of the nation’s top producers of Fulbright Scholars, one of the most prestigious prizes in academia; and our average student ACT score is well above the state and national averages. 2. Life-changing research We’re one of the fastest-growing research institutions in the nation. Our faculty conducted the world's first successful implantation of an artificial heart and the nation's first successful hand transplant. Our faculty currently lead the world's first FDA-approved clinical trial using adult cardiac stem cells to treat heart disease and are pioneering the use of locomotion training to aid paralyzed patients in learning to walk again. Under these researchers’ mentorship, you can join in the exploration of the past and the discoveries for the future – even as an undergraduate student. 3. Be spoiled for choice UofL has 12 schools and colleges and more than 200 degree programs, which allows you the flexibility to explore multiple career options and determine the path that is right for you. 4. You belong here UofL is the most diverse university in the state. We’ve been named the nation’s top university for serving the needs of African American students and have been recognized as one of the most LGBT friendly universities in the country. 5. In and of the city UofL is located in the heart of the state’s most culturally unique and economically thriving city. Our internship and co-op opportunities provide you the chance to train with and learn from professionals in your field of study. This gives you real-world career experience and a competitive advantage in the job market. 6. Fabulous facilities Our noteworthy campus spaces include one of the nation’s top 10 academic clean rooms; a state-of-the-art building dedicated to active learning classrooms; a top 100 research library system; a newly expanded and remodeled Student Activities Center; new apartment-style housing; more than 20 on-campus dining options; and a sparkling Student Recreation Center, just to name a few. 7. A stroll in the park Our 280-plus-acre Belknap Campus has been judged the most beautiful in Kentucky; the Sierra Club has named UofL the “coolest” public school in the commonwealth; and the Arbor Day Foundation has named UofL a Tree Campus USA, a status awarded to colleges and universities that invest in their campus trees. 8. In good company UofL’s inclusion in the Atlantic Coast Conference means more than exciting football and basketball match ups. The 15 ACC universities, which include Duke, Notre Dame and University of Virginia, belong to a consortium dedicated to working together to enrich the educational missions of the member universities. 9. A community of care UofL stands out for our efforts to serve the needs of the community. Our students put in hundreds of thousands of community service hours each year. Based on our curricular engagement, outreach and partnerships, the university is ranked a Carnegie Community Engagement university, one of fewer than 200 such institutions nationwide. In one year alone, UofL students, faculty and staff contributed more than $25.1 million to charitable organizations through volunteerism and direct donations. 10. We are family The UofL family includes an academically exceptional and diverse student body, world-class faculty, pioneering researchers, successful alumni and passionate fans. We celebrate diversity, foster equity and strive for inclusion. We hope to count you among us soon. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville