Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Louis D. Brandeis School of Law Navigation Home About Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations Admissions How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Diversity & Inclusion Part-Time Schedule Viewbook Admissions FAQ Connect with Us Admitted Students AdmissionsAdmissions Dropdown Toggle How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Diversity & Inclusion Part-Time Schedule Viewbook Admissions FAQ Connect with Us Admitted Students Academics Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars AcademicsAcademics Dropdown Toggle Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars Careers Staff Policies Employment Statistics For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Greenebaum Public Service Program CareersCareers Dropdown Toggle Staff Policies Employment Statistics For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Greenebaum Public Service Program Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Areas of Expertise Staff Directory Faculty Speaker Series Faculty & StaffFaculty & Staff Dropdown Toggle Faculty Directory Areas of Expertise Staff Directory Faculty Speaker Series Alumni & Giving Alumni News Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Give to Brandeis Adjunct/Part-Time Faculty Statement of Interest Request a Transcript Alumni & GivingAlumni & Giving Dropdown Toggle Alumni News Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Give to Brandeis Adjunct/Part-Time Faculty Statement of Interest Request a Transcript Student Experiences Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Student Life Student Organizations and Publications International Opportunities Public Service Student Fellowships Brandeis Mentor Program Externships Student ExperiencesStudent Experiences Dropdown Toggle Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Student Life Student Organizations and Publications International Opportunities Public Service Student Fellowships Brandeis Mentor Program Externships About Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations Home / About About the Brandeis School of Law At the Louis D. Brandeis School of Law, students find the excitement of new ideas, the challenge of intellectual exchange and the rigor of critical analysis. Brandeis Law is exceptional in many ways. We boast a strong core curriculum, enhanced by specialized and interdisciplinary studies. We offer a full-time program (3 years) and a part-time program (4 or 5 years). Faculty members dedicated to both teaching and research guide students with strong academic skills and diverse backgrounds. From a supportive legal community, we draw job opportunities and adjuncts who bring their real world expertise to the classroom. International exchanges, for both faculty and for students, expose our school to global opportunities. At Brandeis Law, we emphasize the development of theory, skills and values. This focus is reflected in our extensive skills program, a downtown Law Clinic, an Entrepreneur Clinic, externship opportunities, expansive moot court and professional skills competitions, and the Samuel L. Greenbaum Public Service Program. Brandeis Law is also home to three student-run law journals. We proudly provide all students with the training and opportunity to transform themselves and the world around them. Brandeis Law is located minutes away from the largest legal community in the region and boasts an expansive alumni network spanning 49 states and six countries. Significant Accomplishments The bar passage rate of Brandeis graduates exceeds state average; Ranked No. 1 by U.S. News and World Report as Most Efficient School and named an over-performing law school by the Tax Blog; The Ackerson Law Clinic has helped more than 1,000 clients with domestic violence issues; Selected to host the National Conference of Law Reviews in 2015; Law Review ranks in top 18.1 percent of law reviews nationally; Winner of the instrastate mock trial competition; The Class of 2015 performed 8,977 hours of public service, averaging 53-plus hours per student; Brandeis School of Law offers eight dual degree programs, the most of any Kentucky law school The school offers 20 student-run organizations and 3 law journals Brandeis offers two clinics and 19 regular externship opportunities About Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations News Honoring the 2022 Law Alumni Award winners May 02, 2022 2021-2022 SBA leaders offer perspectives on roles, future, goals Dec 13, 2021 Lars Smith named interim dean of Louisville Law Jul 29, 2021 Professor Jamie Abrams, School of Dentistry faculty, honored by Blackboard for innovative teaching Jul 20, 2021 The legal significance of Juneteenth Jun 17, 2021 More news… Louis D. Brandeis School of Law University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 Google Map Office Hours M-F, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. No holiday hours Contact tel +1-502-852-6358 fax +1-502-852-7299 Admissions: lawadmissions@louisville.edu General: brandeislaw@louisville.edu Quick Links Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Apply Now Give to Brandeis Law Clinic Intranet Symplicity Job Bank Social Media © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville