No images? Click here June 28, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews New Digital Transformation Center (DTC) The DTC is a new department with the University of Louisville that offers students the ability to earn top industry badges, trophies, and certificates to add to their workforce skills. Get access to Google Analytics, Microsoft, IBM, and LinkedIn Learning through the UofL DTC website. New vendor for Cardinal Card transactions The Cardinal Card Office has migrated from CBORD to Atrium. If you installed the CBORD “GET” app on your phone, you may uninstall it. Visit louisville.edu/cardinalcard to deposit Cardinal Cash into your account, log in using your ULink credentials. SRC 4th of July hours The Student Recreation Center will be closed Sunday, July 4 and Monday, July 5 in observance of the 4th of July Holiday. The center will be open regular hours Saturday, July 3 and will re-open at 9:00 AM Tuesday, July 6. We hope you have a safe and happy 4th. HSC Fitness Center 4th of July hours The HSC Fitness Center will be closed Monday, July 5, in observance of the 4th of July holiday. The center will re-open Tuesday at 6:00 AM. We hope you enjoy a safe and happy 4th of July. Did you know about Special Olympics Unified? Unified is where UofL students and Special Olympics athletes play on the same team. Here at UofL we host Unified basketball and bocce tournaments. If interested in participating contact in these tournaments in the upcoming school year contact Kat Halbleib. Martial Arts clubs Our Sport Club program offers instruction in several martial arts. If you are interested in Kempo Karate, JuJutso or Aikido, please visit our webpage for the contact person of each club. That person can give you complete information about their specific club. Plastic-Free Campus Action Camp!! July 5-28 Take advantage of UofL’s membership in the student-led Post-Landfill Action Network & join a virtual, 4-week course to help jumpstart a campaign against single-use plastics. July 5–28, Mon & Wed 11am–12:30pm. postlandfill.org/plastic-free-action-camp Q. I would like to file a complaint with UofL. How do I formally do that? A. To file a complaint, please visit https://louisville.edu/dos/help/student-complaint-procedure. The Dean of Students Office assists with the University’s formal complaint process, logs the concerns, and connects you with the appropriate person on campus to address your complaint. There are more than 400 student organizations. There is something for everyone—and if you don't find what you're looking for, you can always create a new group! Get involved! Check out the possibilities: https://louisville.edu/involvement/student-organizations CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe