Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ Student Affairs/ Academic Support Services Navigation Student Affairs Online Resources Financial Aid DMD Laptop Requirements Academic Support Services Community Dental Health Career Information & Resources TOEFL Waiver Academic Support Services Early Alert System The Early Alert System provides faculty with a proactive method of identifying students who may be experiencing academic difficulties or failure. This form allows faculty to alert the Academic Support Counselor (ASC) of any student who is not making satisfactory progress and/or is exhibiting behaviors that may lead to academic difficulty. Once a student is identified, the counselor will attempt to contact and work with the student in an effort to improve the student’s performance and opportunity for success at ULSD. EAS Referral Form Academic Support Programs These programs are designed to assist dental and dental hygiene students to successfully progress through the University of Louisville School of Dentistry. Academic Support Counseling Tutoring Program Academic Support Counseling Academic support counseling is offered to UL School of Dentistry students. Students may receive counseling for the following: Study skills and methods Time management Organization Test-taking skills Memory skills Stress management The academic progress of dental and dental hygiene students is very important and will be monitored at the ULSD. Students are encouraged to pursue options available to them to receive academic tutoring or counseling. Tutoring Program Need a tutor? To request a tutor, please contact Audra French. Mrs. French will meet with you briefly to discuss your academic needs, study habits, and personality, prior to matching you with a tutor. Once matched, the tutor will contact you by phone or email to arrange for the first meeting. You will then work with your tutor to arrange tutoring sessions to fit your individual needs. About the tutoring program Peer tutors may be recommended by course directors to be tutors. Students interested in serving as tutors may choose the subjects they are willing to tutor. The tutoring service is free to the students being tutored. Tutors are paid an hourly rate for tutoring, and enjoy working with dental and dental hygiene students. Tutoring helps the tutor to prepare for board exams. Methods the tutor may use while working with the student include: sharing study suggestions they found to work for them, asking questions about course material, and using or developing diagrams and drawings for memory aids, etc. Students who wish to discuss their study skills individually and confidentially may contact Audra N. French, Academic Support Counselor University of Louisville School of Dentistry, Room 228 Phone 502-852-7094 audra.french@louisville.edu School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville