Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ Patient Care/ Patient Information/ Your Payment Options Navigation Contact Information Price Comparison Guide Your Payment Options Your First Visits Your Confidentiality Your Rights and Responsibilities Your Advisory Council Patient Information and Welcome Packet Your Opinion – Online Quality Assessment Your Payment Options The University of Louisville School of Dentistry is a fee-for-service operation. It is our goal to keep the cost of dental treatment as low as possible, however, we cannot provide free care. The School of Dentistry is not a federally-qualified health care center, and we do not offer a sliding fee scale or discounted care. Dental insurance is accepted, and an interest-free payment plan is available. Make A Payment Patients can now Make A Payment online; accepting all major credit cards. Click the link above. If you have any questions about your bill or wish to update your insurance, contact us by calling 502-852-5103. Initial Evaluation Appointment Patients being seen for the initial evaluation appointment should bring a $52 deposit (cash or debit/credit card preferred). Patients will be billed for the remainder of the charges incurred. Emergency Dental Care When the clinic schedule allows, we offer a limited number of appointments for those patients with urgent dental needs. Please bring $92 cash deposit (or credit/debit card) for an emergency dental visit. You will then be billed for the remainder of charges incurred. Payment Plans Patients, subject to credit approval, may be eligible to participate in an interest-free payment plan for their dental care by entering into a contract arranged by financial counselors. You may contact our Cashier's Office at 502-852-5103 if you have additional questions. Commercial Insurance We will file commercial insurance claims as a courtesy for covered patients; however, most plans do not pay for all costs connected with treatment. Therefore, first-time patients and emergency patients with insurance are still required to bring the appropriate deposit ($52 initial evaluation; $92 emergency). Any difference between the insurance coverage and actual charges are the responsibility of the patient. There are a variety of dental insurance plans, and coverage may vary from policy to policy. It is the policy of the School of Dentisry not to quote insurance benefits to patients. As a courtesy, we will process pre-estimates and pre-authorizations and assist the patient when possible, but it is the responsibility of the patient to have an understanding of his/her benefits and to contact the insurance carrier for specific coverage information. Medicaid The School of Dentistry accepts Medicare (medical only), Medicaid and KCHIP. School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville