Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online University Housing and the Resident Experience Navigation Home About Us University Housing Staff Job Opportunities Schedule a Tour About UsAbout Us Dropdown Toggle University Housing Staff Job Opportunities Schedule a Tour Living Residence Halls Living-Learning & Themed Communities Services and Amenities Development Projects Costs of Living Gender-Inclusive Housing National Residence Hall Honorary Cardinal Chapter Residence Hall Association Sustainability Express Check-Out LivingLiving Dropdown Toggle Residence Halls Living-Learning & Themed Communities Services and Amenities Development Projects Costs of Living Gender-Inclusive Housing National Residence Hall Honorary Cardinal Chapter Residence Hall Association Sustainability Express Check-Out Apply Fall 2022 Housing Application Fall 2022 Room Selection Timeline for Room Selection and Retention Short-Term Housing Application Summer Housing Frequently Asked Questions Spring 2022 Housing Application and Room Selection ApplyApply Dropdown Toggle Fall 2022 Housing Application Fall 2022 Room Selection Timeline for Room Selection and Retention Short-Term Housing Application Summer Housing Frequently Asked Questions Spring 2022 Housing Application and Room Selection Move-In Parking and Driving Instructions Important Move-In Dates Pre-Arrival Resources Move-InMove-In Dropdown Toggle Parking and Driving Instructions Important Move-In Dates Pre-Arrival Resources Policies First-Year Live-On Policy Second-Year Residential Requirement Fall 2022-Spring 2023 Cancellation Policy Fall 2021-Spring 2022 Cancellation Policy Summer 2022 Cancellation Policy Residence Hall Policies PoliciesPolicies Dropdown Toggle First-Year Live-On Policy Second-Year Residential Requirement Fall 2022-Spring 2023 Cancellation Policy Fall 2021-Spring 2022 Cancellation Policy Summer 2022 Cancellation Policy Residence Hall Policies Forms Student Forms & Requests Staff Forms Forms Forms Dropdown Toggle Student Forms & Requests Staff Forms Camps & Conferences Camps & Conferences - Summer 2022 Camps & Conferences - Policies Camps & ConferencesCamps & Conferences Dropdown Toggle Camps & Conferences - Summer 2022 Camps & Conferences - Policies Affiliates Cardinal Connection Find Off-Campus Housing Off-Campus Resources Affiliated Apartment Communities Banner AffiliatesAffiliates Dropdown Toggle Cardinal Connection Find Off-Campus Housing Off-Campus Resources Affiliated Apartment Communities Banner Policies First-Year Live-On Policy Second-Year Residential Requirement Fall 2022-Spring 2023 Cancellation Policy Fall 2021-Spring 2022 Cancellation Policy Summer 2022 Cancellation Policy Residence Hall Policies Home / Policies / First-Year Live-On Policy First-Year Live-On Policy Benefits Enhanced academic performance. Maximized access to social, academic, and psychological support. A greater sense of safety and belonging. Higher retention rates. These are just a few of the wide-ranging benefits experienced by our on-campus Cardinals. University of Louisville (UofL) institutional data confirms that first-year students who live on campus are more likely to succeed than their off-campus peers are. For these reasons, all first-year students at UofL are required to live on campus. First-year status is defined according to enrollment year rather than credit-hour status. This means that students who are enrolled in the university for their first year of study will be considered as “first-years,” regardless of their potential credit-hour status as anything otherwise (e.g. as sophomores or juniors by credit hours). Exemption Requests While we encourage all first-year students to reap the above-mentioned benefits by living on campus, we do realize that individual circumstances may result in the need for exemption. You may submit an automatic exemption in your New Cards Gateway if you meet one of the conditions below: You will reside with a parent or legal guardian* for the entire academic year in one of the following counties: Kentucky: Bullitt, Hardin, Henry, Jefferson, Meade, Oldham, Shelby, Spencer, and Trimble. Indiana: Clark, Crawford, Floyd, Harrison, Perry, Scott, and Washington. *Our office recognizes that not all students have a traditional family structure in which a parent or legal guardian live in the household. A family can be comprised of people ordinarily living in the same household. Taking this into consideration, if you are living in one of the above counties with a family member who supports you, then you may provide supporting documentation of this circumstance by completing the First-Year Live-On Exemption Form in the Housing Portal on our homepage. 2. You are 21 years of age or older by the first day of classes. These other situations may qualify you for a standard exemption, but you will still need to submit a First-Year Live-On Exemption Request in the Housing Portal in order to qualify: You are a veteran or still serving in the U.S. Armed Services. You are married. You are the parent or legal guardian of a child. You have previously attended another accredited U.S. college or university for at least one full academic year (two semesters) prior to attending UofL. Credits obtained prior to high school graduation do not fulfill this condition. Moreover, if you feel that you qualify for an exemption not listed in the above standard exemptions, you may still submit the First-Year Live-On Exemption Request in the Housing Portal for an extenuating circumstance. The following conditions are examples of extenuating circumstances: A financial circumstance which would hinder your ability to reside on campus. A health circumstance which would hinder your ability to reside on campus, e.g. if you require a special Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) accommodation that is not available on campus. Please note that exemption requests submitted to University Housing do not guarantee approval and must be accompanied by the appropriate documentation required to complete your request. If University Housing is unable to grant a standard exemption based on the supportive documentation submitted with the request, the request will be forwarded to an inter-departmental appeals committee who will then evaluate the request. Any exemption request must be submitted prior to the end of the appropriate term for the request to be valid for that term. Any exemption request received after the end of a term will not be considered for that term. Final Appeal If an appeal is rejected by the appeals committee, a Director’s-Level of Appeal including additional supportive documentation may be submitted in the Housing Portal. Non-Compliance Fee If an exemption request is not approved and the student continues to reside off campus, you will receive a non-compliance fee for each semester during which the you are enrolled but living off campus. This fee is determined in accordance with the respective semester’s housing rate as it applies to a traditional-style double-occupancy room. This means that if you have not been approved to live off campus for the entire academic year, you must pay the non-compliance equivalence of two semesters of housing. Failure to comply with this policy by living on campus or otherwise seeking an exemption will result in the non-compliance fee, so it is important for you to apply for an on-campus space or seek an exemption unless automatically approved in the New Cards Gateway. Policies First-Year Live-On Policy Second-Year Residential Requirement Fall 2022-Spring 2023 Cancellation Policy Fall 2021-Spring 2022 Cancellation Policy Summer 2022 Cancellation Policy Residence Hall Policies A Department of STUDENT AFFAIRS University Housing & Resident Experience University of Louisville Stevenson Hall 101 E. Centennial Walk Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Office Hours M-F 8:30am to 5:00 pm No holiday hours Phone tel (502) 852-6636 Email housing@louisville.edu Social Media Facebook Instagram © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville