Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Health Sciences Center Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go 4 AcademicSchools Academic Schools School of Medicine School of Dentistry School of Nursing School of Public Health & Information Systems Programs & Admissions Medicine: Programs, Admissions Dentistry: Programs, Admissions Nursing: Programs, Admissions Public Health: Programs, Admissions ResearchCenters Research & Centers Health Sciences Center Research Office Centers & Institutes Contact Us Medicine Research Dental Research Nursing Research Public Health Research Local & RegionalPatient Care Patient Care Information Partners & Affiliates School of Medicine Patient Care School of Dentistry Patient Care UofL Dental Associates, Dentistry's Faculty Practice Find a Physician 502-588-6000 Find a Dentist 502-852-5096 UofLVPAMA Office of the Vice President for Academic Medical Affairs Partners & Affiliates Contact Us HSC Office of Diversity & Inclusion Facilities Planning and Management Faculty Development Kornhauser Health Sciences Library Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Home/ Centers & Institutes Centers & Institutes American Heart Association Tobacco Regulation Center ATRAC has helped to shape the production, marketing, and regulation of tobacco and tobacco-related products since 2013. ATRAC projects discover the underlying damage from tobacco use that leads to heart disease, identify biomarkers for detecting cardiovascular injury, and identify effective communication methods for changing perceptions about tobacco use. Cardiovascular Innovation Institute The Cardiovascular Innovation Institute focuses on research, development, pre-clinical and clinical evaluation of bio-adaptive heart innovations and combination therapies, including heart assist devices, gene therapies, biofeedback sensors and related technologies. This is done through a progressive collaboration between the University of Louisville and Jewish Hospital. Center for Advanced Surgical Technology The Center for Advanced Surgical Technologies (CAST) is a joint effort of Norton Hospital and the Department of Surgery at the University of Louisville (U of L) School of Medicine. It was established to promote optimal care in the 21st century by studying, developing and teaching new technologies Center for Healthy Air Water and Soil Using the Circle of Health in Harmony as a guiding philosophy, the Center for Healthy Air Water and Soil creates a healthier Louisville by building an urban, living laboratory to support innovative environmental projects. The Center for Healthy Air Water and Soil works to empower Citizen Scientists to take part in scientific research by promoting a greater understanding of the multifaceted nature of health and by implementing a health in all policies approach for urban development. Center for Integrated Environmental Health Sciences CIEHS researchers seek to understand how life style factors interact with exposure to environmental toxicants in human health and disease and how life stage and gender influence these interactions. Center for Health Hazards Preparedness The Center for Health Hazards Preparedness is a coordinator for research, education, and service on the early recognition and response to potential acts of biological terrorism. The Center's coverage includes the Commonwealth of Kentucky and areas in the surrounding states. Center for Genetics and Molecular Medicine The Center for Genetics and Molecular Medicine is explicitly interdisciplinary and intercampus to assist and enhance research, education, training, and service in pre-clinical and clinical sciences at both the Health Science and Belknap campuses of the University of Louisville. Christina Lee Brown Envirome Institute With Louisville as our urban laboratory, the Envirome Institute investigates how our natural, social, and personal environments impact human health and chronic disease. In partnership with communities, stakeholders, and visiting scholars, Institute investigators study how environmental differences result in wellbeing or health disparities between communities. The Center for Healthy Air Water and Soil, the Superfund Research Center, the Diabetes and Obesity Center, and the American Heart Tobacco Regulation Center form the core of the Envirome Institute. Commonwealth Institute of Kentucky The mission of the Commonwealth Institute of Kentucky (CIK) is to inform policy and practice that will improve the health of populations in Kentucky and beyond by facilitating and supporting transdisciplinary collaborations for research and data analytics. Diabetes & Obesity Center The Diabetes and Obesity Center supports leading edge research to generate new knowledge to prevent and manage diabetes and obesity. Their collaborative, multi-disciplinary approach to research yields dynamic results towards finding effective strategies to prevent, treat, and manage these chronic diseases. Gheens Center for Research on Aging and Age-Related Diseases The Gheens Center for Research on Aging and Age-Related Diseases examines genetic mechanisms of the aging process and studies ways to slow or stop age-related diseases such as diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease. Led by Eugenia Wang, the center was founded in 2000 with a $2.5 million gift from the Gheens Foundation. Henry Vogt Cancer Research Institute The Henry Vogt Cancer Research Institute is the research arm of the James Graham Brown Cancer Center which occupies the top floor of the cancer center building. This facility represents a joint effort of the University of Louisville and the Regional Cancer Center Board. The overall goal of the scientists in the Henry Vogt Cancer Research Institute is to study mechanisms relevant to tumor cell biology at the basic and translational level in order to provide insights that will contribute to the ultimate prevention and cure of malignant diseases. Institute for Cellular Therapeutics The Institute for Cellular Therapeutics is headed by Suzanne T. Ildstad, M.D., Professor of Surgery, one of the nation's leaders in the growing field of cellular therapeutics and a pioneer in the expanded use of bone marrow transplantation to fight disease. Institute of Molecular Cardiology The Institute of Molecular Cardiology is a team of basic and translational cardiovascular scientists who work together to advance our understanding of the molecular basis of myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury and to develop novel therapeutic approaches, including gene therapy and stem cell-mediated cardiac repair. Brown Cancer Center Established in 1977 and incorporated into UofL in 1987, the Brown Cancer Center is a cancer research and treatment institution which now sits among the nations finest. Kentucky Area Health Education Centers The University of Louisville Area Health Education (AHEC) Program is a collaborative effort of the University of Louisville Health Sciences Center with the University of Kentucky Chandler Medical Center, and eight regional centers to improve the distribution of health professionals throughout the Commonwealth. Kentucky Cancer Program The Kentucky Cancer Program is recognized nationally as a unique program which offers cancer control services to individuals and organizations across the state. The mission is to promote cancer education, research and service programs to reduce cancer incidence and mortality. With 12 regional offices, KCP is working to identify cancer problems and mobilize communities into action. Kentucky Lions Eye Center The Kentucky Lions Eye Center houses the Department of Ophthalmology & Visual Sciences of the University of Louisville, the Kentucky Lions Eye Foundation and the Kentucky Lions Eye Bank. The mission of the center is to provide excellence in clinical care, research and education of diseases of the eye. Kentucky Spinal Cord Injury Research Center The KSCIRC is performing nationally recognized research in spinal cord regeneration. The Center presently accommodates six Principal Investigators and more than 30 staff members in 10,000 sq. ft. of newly renovated research space. Ongoing research areas include neuroprotection after spinal cord injury, stem cells, gene therapy, cell transplantation, neurotrophic factors, and surgical repair. Pediatric Research Institute Pediatric Research Institute currently focuses on learning and behavioral consequences of sleep-disordered breathing and on mechanisms underlying end-organ injury in juvenile diabetes. Price Surgical Research Institute The Price Institute of Surgical Research promotes research focusing on improving care of the surgical patient. Superfund Research Center The Superfund Program studies the effects of chemical exposure on risk for developing heart disease, diabetes, and liver disease in populations living near toxic waste disposal sites. The Superfund Program creates new technologies to detect toxic chemicals in the environment and trains new investigators in the field of environmental science. The University of Louisville Trager Institute The University of Louisville Trager Institute is a healthcare research and workforce development institute that provides primary care, specialized geriatric and behavioral health careat their state-of-the-art Republic Bank Foundation Optimal Aging Clinic. The University of Louisville Birth Defects Center The University of Louisville Birth Defects Center is a collaborative effort of more than 30 researchers and practitioners from departments throughout the university. Tweet © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville