Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection RedMed Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection RedMed Plone Menu School of Medicine Homepage Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Facebook Academics About Us Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni & Visitors About Us View Our Mission & Goals Strategic Plan Office of the Dean Accreditation Academic Departments Affiliated Institutes Future Students View All Future Students Information Admissions: School of Medicine Financial Aid: School of Medicine Student Affairs Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Programs & Degrees Distinction Track Program Integrated Programs in Biomedical Sciences (IPIBS) eQuality Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Financial Aid Student Affairs Academic Technology Office Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Distinction Track Program Integrated Programs in Biomedical Sciences (IPIBS) Office of Community Engagement and Diversity Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Faculty Affairs SoM Marketing & Communications Academic Technology Office Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Academic Departments UofL Faculty Mentoring Program and Resources UofL Faculty Handbook UofL Emergency Management Residents & Fellows View All Residents & Fellows Information Residency Programs Fellowships Programs & Degrees School of Medicine Admissions Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Academic Technology Office Student Affairs Office of the Dean Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Contact us Alumni & Visitors View All Alumni & Visitors Information Giving to the School of Medicine School of Medicine News Releases Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Office of the Dean Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Fellowships Contact us Research Research Information School of Medicine News Releases Cancer Research Research at the Health Sciences Center Medical Education Research Unit Clinical Trials Open at UofL Clinical Trials Unit Research Laboratories Contact us Patient Care Patient Care Information Pediatric Medicine Cardiovascular Care Ear, Nose, and Throat Eye Care Specialists Family Medicine Geriatric Care Primary Care OBGYN Services Surgery Sports Medicine Find a Physician 502-588-6000 View all services Outreach Community Outreach Information Kentucky Area Health Education Centers (AHEC) SoM Office of Community Engagement and Diversity HSC Office of Diversity and Inclusion Kentucky Cancer Program Clubs and Organizations Free Clinics Depression Center Outreach & Education Giving Home/ School of Medicine Admissions/ Programs/ G.E.M.S. (Guaranteed Entrance to Medical School) Navigation School of Medicine Admissions Application Process Admissions Policies Student Resources Programs Dual Degrees Trover Rural Track Distinction Tracks Health and Social Justice Scholars Post-Bacc Pre-Med Program M.S. in Physiology G.E.M.S. (Guaranteed Entrance to Medical School) Office of Diversity and Inclusion Outreach Why UofL? FAQ Contact G.E.M.S. (Guaranteed Entrance to Medical School) Overview How to Apply Alumni Spotlight Guaranteed admission program for Kentucky high school seniors. The Guaranteed Entrance to Medical School (G.E.M.S.) program was established in 1988 and has given high school seniors from across the state the opportunity to cement their commitment to pursue a career in medicine with a guarantee of admission to the University of Louisville School of Medicine. The G.E.M.S students are given the opportunity to observe numerous medical specialties, participate in seminars, serve the Louisville community and build relationships with students who have like-minded goals of becoming a physician. After completing the G.E.M.S. program at the University of Louisville, you will automatically be admitted to the University of Louisville School of Medicine if you maintain a 3.4 cumulative and science grade point average in undergraduate work, score at or above the national mean on each section of the Medical College Admissions Test (MCAT), and participate fully in program activities. Sample GEMS activities include: UofL Hospital Emergency Room Observations Pediatric Observations Labor and Delivery Observations Practice in Medicine Seminar Casting and Splinting Simulation Suture Clinics Seminar with UofL Health Administrators Team Service Project GEMS Mentor/Mentee Activities How To Apply: Application Deadline is December 15. Applicants must meet minimum test requirements of 31 ACT or 1420 SAT and minimum GPA requirements of 3.75 GPA to be eligible to apply. Interested students must apply through UofL Undergraduate Admissions Application Gateway. Review the Guaranteed Entrance Programs Application Instructions Page for more information and to get started on your application. Complete applications to the GEMS program must include: Essay concerning how you arrived at this point in your life and career decision-making, including plans and goals for the future (400 words or less) Two letters of recommendation (1 high school principal or counselor and 1 science or mathematics teacher) Resume including all extracurricular activities, honors, and awards. Please note, the GEMS program is only available to high school seniors who are residents of Kentucky. Absent special circumstances, high school students who are residents of the state of Kentucky but are attending a high school outside of the state are not eligible to apply to the GEMS program. Special circumstances may be considered when a student’s parents are transferred out of the state due to military or government commitment. Read about some of our distinguished GEMS Alumni and current GEMS students below. University of Louisville and GEMS Alumni Lilly Jordan '21 poses for a photo to celebrate her graduation (above). She was featured in a UofL Alumni post, which you can check out here. Current GEMS student Jahnavi Sunkara is a founding member of The Cardinal Edge peer reviewed undergraduate research journal. Read more here. Elle Romes, current medical student and GEMS alumni '18, shares her thoughts on experiencing the COVID-19 pandemic through a publication in Louisville Medicine magazine. Program Alumni, including Sunshine Smoot, below, were featured in UofL News article highlighting the GEMS program. Find more information in the Alumni Spotlight blog post. Tweet Medical Admissions 323 East Chestnut St. University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 Office Hours M-F 8:00 am to 5:00 pm Phone View contact information for the School of Medicine. Email medadm@louisville.edu Social Media Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville