No images? Click here April 1, 2022 Password web portal not available 4/8 weekend UofL’s password.louisville.edu web portal will be offline from noon, Friday, April 8 until 6 a.m., Monday, April 11. If you have password-change issues before, during the weekend, and after, please submit a service ticket or contact our ITS HelpDesk. Get help with your final writing assignments The Virtual Writing Center (VWC) is a free online service designed to help with any stage of the writing process, from working on the assignment prompt to editing the final draft. Schedule an appointment (required!) now to ensure you have VWC support on your final paper. Learn More. Don’t miss these DTC events The Digital Transformation Center (DTC) offers free technology courses to all UofL students. You can enhance your grasp of emerging technologies including blockchain, cloud computing, and more. Check out the DTC’s website for a list of upcoming opportunities. Tell us about your favorite faculty member Did anyone make a lasting impression on you this spring? You are invited to take a moment to thank your favorite faculty, staff, or TA for their hard work, commitment, and passion for teaching and student success. Nominations are open April 4–May 6. SEC & ACC Virtual Career Fair Interested in finding a job, career, or internship? Register and join online on Wednesday, April 6, 10:00 a.m.–5:00 p.m. (EST). “Student voices—is anyone listening?” Join CODRE for the next Campus-wide listening session, “Student voices—is anyone listening?” and “Paying for School - Obstacles, Barriers and Resources” April 6, 4:00 p.m.–6:00 p.m., in Teams. Everyone is welcome, and we look forward to hearing your voices. Register to attend. Scholarship opportunities The Women's Center has a few scholarship opportunities for undergraduate students for fall 2022. Application deadline, 5:00 p.m., April 22. Visit this link to download criteria and applications, louisville.edu/womenscenter/awards-and-scholarships/scholarships. Did you know? There is a Career Development Center with all kinds of helpful tools available for students such as Handshake, part time job search, career fairs, "Resume Review," assessments, and more. Go to: louisville.edu/career. Online Student Resources Subscribe University of Louisville 2100 S. Floyd St. Student Activities Center, W301 Louisville, KY 40208 You are receiving this email because you are a University of Louisville online student. If you choose to unsubscribe, you agree to no longer receive important UofL news and updates. Unsubscribe