No images? Click here December 1, 2021 Happy Holidays, Cards! 2022-23 FAFSA form is now available The FAFSA application form for the 2022-2023 aid year is now available. Don’t forget, it is important to apply for the upcoming aid year as soon as possible to maximize your potential award eligibility. Apply here: louisville.edu/financialaid. Enhance your degree with a certificate UofL offers several online certificate programs that can be completed in tandem with your undergrad or grad degree. Certificates are great additions to your resume and offer an opportunity to showcase focused knowledge and skills. View online certificates. Tell us about your favorite faculty member Did anyone make a lasting impression on you this fall? You are invited to take a moment to thank your favorite faculty, staff, or TA for their hard work, commitment, and passion for teaching and student success. Nominations for fall semester close on December 18. Visit louisville.edu/delphi/awards/facultyfavorites/nominate. Don’t forget to apply for your Cardinal Card The Cardinal Card is the official I.D. card for UofL students. Applying for your first card is easy, free, and there are many benefits to having it such as Cardinal Cash purchases, discounts and access to athletic events—including student tickets. Apply now! Fall 2021 course evaluations The deadline to complete your fall 2022 course evaluation is Thursday, Dec. 16. Access evaluations by clicking the link in the email invitation sent to your UofL account or by visiting Blackboard. Student Organizations The University of Louisville hosts over 400 student organizations covering a wide variety of student interests. These groups provide a wonderful opportunity to become involved to connect with other students. Find more information at louisville.campuslabs.com/engage. Did you know? UofL offers a wide range of scholarships, grants, loans and work-study opportunities to help you pay for your education. Go to: louisville.edu/admissions/aid. Online Student Resources Subscribe University of Louisville 2100 S. Floyd St. Student Activities Center, W301 Louisville, KY 40208 You are receiving this email because you are a University of Louisville online student. If you choose to unsubscribe, you agree to no longer receive important UofL news and updates. Unsubscribe