[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Master's Degree Programs / Online Master of Education in Special Education: Autism Spectrum Disorder and Applied Behavior Analysis /-/images/pages/msautism/MEd-SPED-ASDABA_Header.jpg Help students achieve their full potential. sped msautism-program-page organic ../../programs/masters/online-master-of-education-in-special-education-autism-spectrum-disorder-and-applied-behavior-analysis?tab=apply Erin Elrod Online Enrollment Counselor Online Master of Education in Special Education: Autism Spectrum Disorder and Applied Behavior Analysis The online Master of Education in Special Education: Autism Spectrum Disorder and Applied Behavior Analysis is designed for professionals who want to develop expertise in applied behavior analysis without obtaining a teaching license. UofL’s online Master of Education (MEd) in Special Education: Autism Spectrum Disorder and Applied Behavior Analysis (ASDABA) will prepare you to meet learners' behavioral challenges and needs through a comprehensive curriculum; one that includes the necessary practicum hours for those seeking to become a Board Certified Behavior Analyst (BCBA). As a student, you will learn how to become a behavior analyst knowledgeable of your science, effective in your practice and ethical in your interactions. The MEd in Special Education: ASDABA is offered by the College of Education & Human Development at the University of Louisville. Note: this program is not designed to lead to teacher certification. Overview Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Highlights Prepare to work with students who have intellectual disabilities that impede academic achievement and adaptive behavior skills (e.g., communication, social behavior and daily living activities). Take advantage of the opportunity to work to complete requirements necessary to sit for your Board-Certified Behavior Analyst (BCBA) certification examinations while working on your master’s. Complete your degree in as little as 2 years. Experience the flexibility of a fully online program—designed to fit your life with 24/7 access to classes and coursework completed when it’s right for you. Skip the GRE/GMAT—not required for admission. Learn from faculty with distinguished academic credentials, industry experience and a strong commitment to applied research. 100% ONLINE COURSES With UofL Online, you can complete this degree on your own time through fully online coursework. Learn More 10 COURSES Complete the program in just 10 courses. Learn More SKIP THE GRE/GMAT The GRE/GMAT is not required for admission to the MEd in Special Education. "Our graduates will leave our program equipped with knowledge they need to make a difference in the lives of students who have disabilities." Jon Burt, PhD Program Director START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August Steps to Apply Complete graduate application $65 non-refundable application fee Submit 2 letters of recommendation (please list email addresses for recommenders in the online application) Provide personal statement of 250-500 words Please indicate whether you want to pursue the program on part-time or full-time basis. The personal statement is the applicant's opportunity to demonstrate his/her writing ability as well as provide a personal introduction to the admissions screening committee. The personal statement should be no more than 500 words, and should be double spaced and word-processed. Applicants are encouraged to proofread their writing, and to submit the best work possible. Upload your signed Acceptable Use of Technology and Code of Ethics statement to your online graduate application Check for scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree earned from an accredited institution* This program is not currently approved to lead to a Rank II, if you’re seeking a Rank II check out the ASDABA concentration within the MEd. in Teaching and Learning—also available 100% online Official transcripts of all undergraduate and graduate work Minimum undergraduate GPA of 2.75 No GRE/GMAT required for admission. *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu Credit Transfer If you have received graduate credit from another institution, you may transfer up to 6 credits that directly replace approved courses in the program. Approval must be granted by the program director. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselors at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. The online MEd in Special Education: ASDABA is a 30-39 credit hour (10-13 course) program with 18-27 credit hours in core curriculum and 12 hours in the ASDABA concentration. This program is not designed to lead to teacher certification Course Title Credit Hours Inquiry (9 hours) EDSP 644 Applied Behavior Analysis 3 EDSP 654 Radical Behaviorism 3 EDSP 669 Single Subject Research Methods and Designs 3 Advocacy (6 hours) EDSP 651 Professional and Ethical Practice of Applied Behavior Analysis 3 EDSP 673 Research Seminar in Autism Spectrum Disorders 3 Action (3-12 hours) EDSP 653 Practicum in Autism and Applied Behavior Analysis 3 ASDABA (12 hours) EDSP 570 Autism: Introduction and Understanding 3 EDSP 671 Autism: Strategies and Techniques 3 EDSP 546 Behavior Analytic Approach to Communication 3 EDSP 650 Advanced Applied Behavior Analysis 3 Minimum Total Hours 30-39 Entry, midpoint and exit assessments are also required for graduation. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Featured Faculty View the full list of Special Education faculty here. Overview Admissions Courses TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link