Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of the Provost Navigation Home Who We Are What We Do Faculty Affairs Searches FacultyFMLRequestFormSelf14Oct2019.docx FacultyFMLFamilyMember.docx Faculty AffairsFaculty Affairs Dropdown Toggle Searches FacultyFMLRequestFormSelf14Oct2019.docx FacultyFMLFamilyMember.docx International Travel Policies Redbook Redbook Table of Contents Redbook Addenda RedbookRedbook Dropdown Toggle Redbook Table of Contents Redbook Addenda Strategic Planning Undergraduate Research Posters-at-the-Capitol Summer Research Opportunity Program (SROP) Undergraduate Arts & Research Showcase Undergraduate ResearchUndergraduate Research Dropdown Toggle Posters-at-the-Capitol Summer Research Opportunity Program (SROP) Undergraduate Arts & Research Showcase International Travel Out of Country Travel Procedures Out of Country Travel Forms International Travel Insurance Resources Out of Country Travel Procedures International Travel procedures must be followed for all employees and students traveling abroad on University business, regardless of funding source. Out of Country travel will not be reimbursed unless these procedures are followed as stipulated in the "Travel Policy." Failure to comply with the procedures outlined below will result in disapproval of any reimbursement request. Please review the requirements related to travel and entry documentation (passport, visa, etc.) for your destination country. If you need assistance with making this determination, please contact Anthony Travel at 502-369-8400 or uofltravel@anthonytravel.com the Controller’s Office at 852-8237. The Office of Study Abroad and International Travel (OSAIT), Provost designee for International Travel, monitors three U.S. government lists for health and safety concerns. Travel to areas on these lists will be subject to additional forms and/or procedures. These lists are: Department of State’s Travel Advisory list (Levels 2-4 require additional steps; some countries are multi-level) Center for Disease Control Travel Alert list (Levels 2-3 require additional steps) Department of the Treasury’s Sanctions list If your destination is on any of the three government warning lists, contact us for your next steps at least 30 working days before departure. Details can also be found on the Process flowchart (PDF). If your destination is not on any of the above lists, the general procedure is: Complete Out of Country Travel forms, signed by the Dean or equivalent, at least 20 working days in advance of your trip. Do not purchase airfare or make lodging arrangements until you have received authorization from the International Center. Create a Travel Authorization (TA) in the Travel and Expense module in PeopleSoft and attach the forms from step one. The TA will route to the International Center. The traveler will receive a pre-approval email from the International Center granting permission to purchase airfare and lodging, and to enroll in CISI insurance. Follow instructions in the pre-approval email to submit air itinerary, lodging information, and to enroll in the insurance plan. Provost designee will sign paper request and send a full Provost approval email to the traveler and their department contact. This email should be attached to the traveler’s Expense Report. If you have any questions, please consult the Resources section, or contact Rebecca Dixon 852-0295 Out of Country Travel Forms Check with your department as they may require internal forms specific to your department and unrelated to international travel approval. Do not purchase airfare or make lodging arrangements until you have received authorization from the International Center. Authorization may be obtained by submitting the following forms: Employee Forms If your destination is on any of the three government warning lists in the Procedure section, contact us for additional forms and/or procedures. “Request for Authorization of Out-of-Country Travel” form (PDF). Be sure to answer “How will your University responsibilities be covered during your absence?” include name of person covering. List all funding sources and obtain approval of accounts. Obtain signatures – yours and department head or supervisor, and dean “Informed Consent form” form (PDF) and obtain appropriate signatures. Read the bulletin "Tips for Travelers and Students Studying Abroad." “Overseas Emergency Information Sheet (PDF)." "University of Louisville Travel Certification (PDF)." Questions concerning this particular form should be directed to Export Control. Individual Student International Travel Graduate and undergraduate students traveling abroad for University-sanctioned purposes other than study abroad must complete the forms listed below. If a group of students is traveling with an employee who is leading their trip, students will compete the forms in the group trip section below. Contact us if you are unsure if your if your international experience is a study abroad. If your destination is on any of the three government warning lists in the Procedure section, contact us for additional forms and/or procedures. Request for Out of Country Travel form (PDF) (signed by your department chair and dean) Student Demographic form (PDF) Student Release and Assumption of Risk form (PDF) Travel Certification form (PDF) Student Conduct form (PDF) Personal Emergency Action Plan (PEAP) form (PDF) A copy of your signed passport page (Note: travelers are advised to not leave the country if their passport will expire within six months of their return date). Here is an example of an acceptable passport copy. (DOCX) Faculty/Staff-led Group Trips Any group of students with an employee lead completes the forms below. The faculty/staff lead is responsible for ensuring all documents are received in the International Center at least 20 working days before departure. Pre-approval can be granted as early as needed with the faculty lead’s forms. One full approval email is sent to the faculty lead and the department contact. Employee forms and responsibilities If your destination is on any of the three government warning lists in the Procedure section, contact us for additional forms and/or procedures. Employees complete forms from the “Employee Forms” section above. In group trips, pre-approval can be granted once the International Center has received the faculty lead’s paperwork. Group Trip Coversheet (XLSX): Faculty lead or department contact fills in the names of all travelers on the group and emails the excel file to Rebecca Dixon. CISI insurance spreadsheet (XLSX): Faculty lead or department contact completes by filling out all columns and emailing to Melissa Lee. This step is only to be completed after receiving pre-approval and when insurance cost is included in the program fee. This insurance is payable by JV. For more information about CISI, go to our insurance page. Personal Emergency Action Plan (PEAP) form (PDF): For group trips, the faculty/staff lead should submit one master copy of the PEAP form to the International Center, and by doing so they are stating that they have discussed the information contained within the document with their students. Each student traveling will need a PEAP with them. Student forms If your destination is on any of the three government warning lists in the Procedure section, contact us for additional forms and/or procedures. Student Demographic form (PDF) Student Release and Assumption of Risk form (PDF) Student Conduct form (PDF) A copy of signed passport (photo and signature page). Here is an example of an acceptable passport copy (DOCX). Community member forms Community members participating on UofL-sanctioned trips are indirectly affiliated with the University. In case of an emergency, we will need the following documents on file. If your destination is on any of the three government warning lists in the Procedure section, contact us for additional forms and/or procedures. Release and Assumption of Risk (PDF) Emergency Information Sheet (PDF) International Travel Insurance Effective March 1, 2017, CISI overseas travel insurance is required for all University-affiliated trips, and is available through the Office of Study Abroad and International Travel. Beginning January 1, 2020, there is no cost associated with CISI; however, enrollment in the insurance plan is still mandatory. To enroll in CISI: Students, self-enrollment. Employees, self-enrollment. Faculty-led trips or large groups of faculty, complete this spreadsheet (XLXS) and email it to Melissa Lee. We will bulk enroll travelers. Questions concerning the enrollment process should be directed to Melissa Lee. Coverage questions should be directed to Virginia Hosono. Resources Process flowchart (PDF) Office of Study Abroad and International Travel page CISI Insurance page International Travel Policy (Administration, Compliance, and Legal) International Travel FAQ page Tips for Travelers and Students Studying Abroad Travel Policy (Finance) Controller’s Office Travel Page Controller’s Office Travel & Expense System page Contact Us Rebecca Dixon (International Center): Provost approval, Out of Country Travel forms Melissa Lee (International Center): CISI insurance enrollment Controller’s Office: T&E Module, Advances, Reimbursements Anthony Travel(UofL Travel Agent) : Setting up a profile to book travel, booking travel © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville