Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Research and Innovation Navigation Home About Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program Researchers Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway ResearchersResearchers Dropdown Toggle Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway Industry Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started IndustryIndustry Dropdown Toggle Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started Students & Post-Docs Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Students & Post-DocsStudents & Post-Docs Dropdown Toggle Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Participants Children in Research Open Trials ParticipantsParticipants Dropdown Toggle Children in Research Open Trials Contact Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup ContactContact Dropdown Toggle Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup Researchers Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway Home / Researchers / Publishing and Presenting Publishing and Presenting Once you've conducted your research, the next step is to share the results. UofL offers several resources for researchers working to write, present and publish. Presenting For researchers working on conference posters or presentations, UofL offers branded templates to make sure your work gets attention. Below, you can download these 24x36” Adobe InDesign poster templates for academic research presentations in three different layouts (horizontal and vertical). Poster Template 1 (horizontal) Poster Template 2 (vertical) Poster Template 3 (vertical) Writing and Publishing For researchers working on their next paper or manuscript, UofL Libraries offers this handy guide to writing and publishing your work, plus resources for: Finding previous literature and citations One of the first steps in preparing your work for publication as an article, paper or presentation is a search to find past literature and citations in the same area. UofL has access to several major journals, along with a wide selection of printed publications. You can search these sources using the UofL Libraries subject guide. If you are new to literature searches or would just like a hand, UofL's reference librarians can help you. Using the Ask A Librarian page, you can email a question or set a time to meet with a librarian specializing in a range of subjects, including art, business, social sciences and medicine. These references will help you write your literature review summarizing the previous research that informs your work. UofL libraries also has a guide for writing a literature review, which you can read here. Writing and editing your work for submission The University Writing Center provides resources for faculty for their writing. Consultants at the Writing Center often work with faculty to develop and revise drafts of articles, grant applications, and other documents at any point in their writing process, from organization and brainstorming, to revising and polishing drafts. Writing Center sessions last 50 minutes and faculty can sign up for up to three appointments a week, and can make appointments with the same consultant. You can make an appointment here. Aside from appointments, the Writing Center also offers Faculty and Graduate Student Writing Groups. More information and registration here. Selecting a journal to publish in Once your article is written, you're ready to submit for publication - but where? UofL Libraries has developed a guide for finding a good journal to publish in. Major considerations include suitability (whether the journal is a good fit for the research you've done), logistics (the practicalities of the journal's policies, whether articles you're citing have been published in the journal before, etc.) and impact (the journal's prestige, readership, whether it's indexed, etc.). Connecting your published work to your profile After your work is published, you'll want to make sure that it's connected to you. UofL has a few services that can help, including: ThinkIR, an open-access collection of scholarly works created by the UofL community and hosted and supported by the University Libraries. Through ThinkIR, faculty and graduates can highlight their scholarship, accomplishments, and successes as researchers for a global audience, increasing their visibility and making new connections. ThinkIR not only offers a portal for you to showcase all your scholarship, but provides open access and discoverability to your work without a paywall. Open Researcher and Contributor ID (ORCID), which allows researchers to register to obtain a unique ORCID iD that will attach to their research publications and other outputs. The idea is to create a comprehensive repository of your work, and your unique identifier will travel with you throughout your career. Researchers Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway OFFICE OF RESEARCH & INNOVATION University of Louisville 300 E Market Street Louisville, Kentucky 40202 MORE INFORMATION Phone (Main) 502.852.6512, 502.852.8361 (Fax) Looking for a unit within the Office of Research and Innovation? Contact information here. Email Email Research and Innovation Service Account © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville