Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Human Resources Navigation Home Benefits Medical Coverage Dental Vision Life Tuition Remission Retirement Additional Benefits Types of Leave Flexible Spending Pharmacy Long Term Disability Short Term Disability Benefits Definitions Benefits Specialists COBRA Optum BenefitsBenefits Dropdown Toggle Medical Coverage Dental Vision Life Tuition Remission Retirement Additional Benefits Types of Leave Flexible Spending Pharmacy Long Term Disability Short Term Disability Benefits Definitions Benefits Specialists COBRA Optum Compensation Compensation and Total Rewards Study Job Description Instructions Compensation Analysts UofL Compensation & Benefits Survey FAQs Compensation & Total Rewards Study Timeline Compensation & Benefits Employee Input Survey CompensationCompensation Dropdown Toggle Compensation and Total Rewards Study Job Description Instructions Compensation Analysts UofL Compensation & Benefits Survey FAQs Compensation & Total Rewards Study Timeline Compensation & Benefits Employee Input Survey Employment Jobs at UofL New Employee Onboarding Manager Resources Employment Verification HR Business Partners Exit Surveys Contact Employment EmploymentEmployment Dropdown Toggle Jobs at UofL New Employee Onboarding Manager Resources Employment Verification HR Business Partners Exit Surveys Contact Employment Employee Relations Campus Accessibility Page Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Formal ADA Complaint Procedure Improvement Plans Unemployment Compensation Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Requirements and Procedures EEO/Affirmative Action Grievances Performance Evaluation Labor Law Posters Certification of Completion - Title IX Certification of Completion - Discriminatory Harassment COVID-19 Unemployment FAQs Kentucky Unemployment Fraud Information Workday Employee RelationsEmployee Relations Dropdown Toggle Campus Accessibility Page Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Formal ADA Complaint Procedure Improvement Plans Unemployment Compensation Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Requirements and Procedures EEO/Affirmative Action Grievances Performance Evaluation Labor Law Posters Certification of Completion - Title IX Certification of Completion - Discriminatory Harassment COVID-19 Unemployment FAQs Kentucky Unemployment Fraud Information Workday Get Healthy Now Employee Success Center Policies The University of Louisville Policy Statement as a Drug-Free Institution Definitions PoliciesPolicies Dropdown Toggle The University of Louisville Policy Statement as a Drug-Free Institution Definitions Forms Contact Us HRtalks and HRlistens Employee Resources Benefits Design Workgroup UofL Event Calendar Employee ResourcesEmployee Resources Dropdown Toggle Benefits Design Workgroup UofL Event Calendar Workday Home / Compensation / UofL Compensation & Benefits Survey FAQs UofL Compensation & Benefits Survey FAQs 1. I don’t see my department listed on the drop-down menu in the survey. What should I do? If you do not see your unit/department, you will need to make your unit/department selection based on the VP/Dean that oversees your area. If you don’t know your VP/Dean, contact comphr@louisville.edu. 2. Why are clinical faculty excluded from the compensation study? School of Education clinical faculty are included in the survey. School of Medicine clinical faculty are excluded because a portion of their salary comes from UofL Health and they are contract employees who are governed by different compensation rules outside of the university. Those salaries are increased based on market data and number of new patients they see each year. If you are unsure of your eligibility to be included in the survey, contact comphr@louisville.edu. 3. How long will the survey take to complete? The survey will take approximately 10 – 15 minutes to complete. 4. What browser should I use? We recommend Google Chrome, but you may also use Mozilla Firefox or Internet Explorer. 5. Who will look at the results? Your responses are confidential; the information in this survey is only accessible to the Segal project team on an external server. All responses will be shown in aggregate and no answers will be attributed to any one individual. 6. What type of questions are included in the survey? Benefits and compensation satisfaction questions along with basic job-related questions. 7. When does the survey need to be completed by? The survey closes at the end of the business day on March 1, 2022. 8. Am I able to save my answers and finish the survey later? There is a “save and continue later” option in the upper right corner of the red bar. The survey closes at the end of the business day on March 1, 2022. 9. What if I don’t finish the survey? The survey takes approximately 10-15 minutes from start to finish. We encourage you to give yourself ample time to complete the survey. All questions must be answered for the survey to be complete. There is a “save and continue later” option in the upper right corner of the red bar. The survey closes at the end of the business day on March 1, 2022. 10. Are responses confidential? Your responses are confidential; the information in this survey is only accessible to the Segal project team on an external server. All responses will be shown in aggregate and no answers will be attributed to any one individual. 11. How will I know my survey was submitted? After clicking “submit” at the end of the survey, a message will appear like the one pictured below, to notify your submission was received. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville