[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Certificate in Human Resource Leadership /-/images/pages/hrl/2010_HRL_1596x740.jpg Grow your leadership skills. hrl hrl-program-page organic ../../programs/bachelors/bachelor-of-business-administration?tab=apply Veronica Johnson Online Enrollment Counselor Online Certificate in Human Resource Leadership The online Human Resource Leadership undergraduate certificate is designed to help working professionals enhance their leadership and coaching skills. Through this certificate, students will gain technical and communication skills needed to support their professional growth as well as the growth of their teams and organizations. This program will help you learn how HR fundamentals and strategies can be leveraged to improve individual and team performance, decrease turnover, resolve conflict, identify needs and strategically prepare for organizational change. By completing this certificate you will also be able to identify, articulate and analyze current and emerging trends and ethical issues in the field—keeping organizational environments healthy and the workforce engaged. The HR Leadership certificate is offered by the College of Education and Human Development (CEHD) at the University of Louisville. Overview Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Work Ready KY Scholarship Available for Admitted Online HRL Certificate Students Complete your application as soon as possible to be considered for this KHEAA opportunity. LEARN MORE This certificate does not qualify for financial aid. Highlights Learn how to employ HR strategies that can affect real change, support organizations and personnel, and address conflict with up-to-date knowledge of industry ethics. Gain a superior understanding of human resource essentials such as job design, recruitment, employee selection, performance evaluation, training, payroll and more. Certificate credit hours can be applied towards UofL’s Bachelor of Science in Organizational Leadership and Learning. Join the highly-active Society for Human Resources (SHRM) Student Chapter—a great opportunity to connect and network with your peers! Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online, asynchronous classes and 24/7 access to learning tools. Learn from world-class faculty who have extensive experience in the field. Move through your coursework in an accelerated 8-week timeframe. Get started as soon as you’re ready with 7 available starts per year. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this program on your own time through fully-online classes. Learn More 12 CREDIT HOURS This certificate consists of only 4 courses (just 12 credit hours). Learn More 8 WEEK TERMS Move through your coursework in an accelerated timeframe. Learn More "This certificate allows students from all walks of life to learn and develop themselves to be better leaders. It’s a universally applicable certificate and an excellent fit for individuals working in military, corporate, and other professional management and/or leadership settings" Andrew McCart, Ph.D. Outcomes Jobs opportunities for professionals with this certificate may include: HR specialist/manager/director, talent recruiter/manager/coordinator, labor relations representative, talent acquisition manager/director, policy development specialist, workforce development specialist, military HR operations specialist, and more. According to the U.S. Department of Labor’s O*Net report, Human Resource Managers are projected to have the highest number of job openings as well as a faster than average growth rate (2018-2028) nationally. Credit hours achieved through completion of this certificate can be applied towards UofL’s award-winning Bachelor of Science in Organizational Leadership and Learning—also available 100% online. Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall I August October 1 Fall II October December 1 Spring I January March 1 Spring II March May 1 Summer I May June 1 Summer II June July 1 Summer III July Steps to Apply Complete the Take Flight (undergraduate) application (select Post-Bac or Visiting Student > College Visitor, when prompted) $25 non-refundable application fee Submit official college transcripts from all previous institutions Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Note: Electronic transcripts are only accepted directly from the institution(s). Please have electronic transcripts sent to adetran@louisville.edu Admission in good standing requires: Minimum undergraduate GPA of 2.25 to be admitted in good standing (applicants with a 2.0 - 2.24 GPA may inquire about conditional admission) 5 years of work experience Not meeting the admission requirements? If you do not meet one or more admission requirement(s), you may submit a petition for admission requirement waiver within the application form, in conjunction with all other application materials, explaining 1) how this program fits in your career planning and 2) why the unmet requirement(s) will not be a barrier to your success in this program. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. The online Undergraduate Certificate in Human Resource Leadership is a 12-credit hour program. All courses are delivered online, asynchronously over 8-week terms. Course List Hours Required Courses 6 LEAD 411 Human Resource Fundamentals 3 LEAD 412 Coaching & Talent Development 3 Choose 2 Courses from Below 6 LEAD 311 Needs Assessment 3 LEAD 420 Conflict Management in the Workplace 3 LEAD 442 Supporting Organizational Change 3 LEAD 490 Leadership & Management 3 LEAD 578 Workplace & Information Ethics 3 Total Required Credit Hours 12 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Is there a part-time option? Yes, you can complete this program as either a part-time or a full-time student. As a full-time student, it is possible to complete this certificate in just one semester by taking all 12 credit hours at the same time! I don’t have a 2.25 GPA, could I be accepted provisionally? Provisional admission may be possible. The Admissions Committee will assess applications on a case-by-case basis carefully considering all qualifications. Is the online HR leadership certificate suitable for me as an out-of-state student? Yes, this program is applicable to students nationwide. Students can apply and enroll to UofL’s online programs, including this HR certificate from anywhere in the world. Is the HR online certificate program open to international students? Yes, this program is available for international students. Please view our international admissions requirements for more information. Are there any additional fees outside of tuition? No, there are no additional fees. However, you will need to purchase the textbooks specific to your chosen courses. Can I transfer in credits? No, transfer credits are not accepted for the certificate program. How long are the courses? The courses are offered in an accelerated 8-week format. Can I take summer classes? Yes, classes are offered year-round including summer. Can I take some classes on campus if I want? Yes, students participating in the Certificate can attend in-person classes (in the evenings) as they are available. I don’t have a bachelor’s degree. Do I need one to be admitted to this program? No, this program is an undergraduate certificate and does not require a bachelor’s degree for admission, though you do need at least 5 years of work experience. Once you successfully complete the certificate, you can apply the credits earned in the certificate program towards your BS in Organizational Leadership and Learning degree. Can I apply the certificate credits towards my bachelor’s degree? Yes, once you successfully complete the certificate, you can apply the earned credits towards your BS in Organizational Leadership and Learning degree. Are there any student organizations that I can get involved in? Yes, you can join our highly-active Society for Human Resources (SHRM) Student Chapter. Overview Admissions Courses TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link