Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Research and Innovation Navigation Home About Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program Researchers Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway ResearchersResearchers Dropdown Toggle Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway Industry Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started IndustryIndustry Dropdown Toggle Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started Students & Post-Docs Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Students & Post-DocsStudents & Post-Docs Dropdown Toggle Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Participants Children in Research Open Trials ParticipantsParticipants Dropdown Toggle Children in Research Open Trials Contact Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup ContactContact Dropdown Toggle Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup Human Subjects Research Submit a New Study Continue a Study Amend a Study Report a Study Event Closing a Study Templates/Resources Policy Manual/Guides External Collaborations International Research Questions, Complaints or Concerns for the IRB ClinicalTrials.gov Registration Home / Researchers / Compliance and Regulatory / Human Subjects Research Human Subjects Research and Institutional Review Board (IRB) Getting Started Information for navigating each step of the IRB process can be found in the menu links on this page. The HSPPO also has created document templates, guidance materials and other tools to assist researchers in developing a study protocol, submitting to the IRB for approval, and running a compliant research study. For additional assistance finding information on this website or accessing iRIS, you may email our office or chat with an IRB staff member. Study Personnel Requirements Research personnel are directly involved in conducting the research with human participants through an interaction or intervention for research purposes, including participating in the consent process by either leading it or contributing to it; OR who are directly involved with recording or processing identifiable private information, including protected health information, related to those participants for the purpose of conducting the research study. All research personnel must be added to the research team in IRIS before they can begin working on the research. The IRB will not issue initial approval, continuation approval, or approve the addition of personnel if these items are not completed. All research personnel must: Upload a CV in the iRIS system. Complete the required annual Attestation and Disclosure Form in the iRIS system. Complete the required combined Human Subjects and HIPAA Research basic course through the CITI website. iRIS profile: Login to iRIS using an ULINK/Outlook user name and password: https://iris.louisville.edu To complete a profile in the iRIS system: 1. Upload your CV Instructions for uploading your CV CVs must have a version date entered in the specified field in iRIS. Be sure to hit "save" after uploading the document. 2. Complete the “Attestation and Disclosure Form”. Instructions for completing your ADF form The ADF form must be updated yearly (or sooner if necessary). CITI Human Subjects/HIPAA Training: Individuals are required to take "Human Subjects and HIPAA Research" training before they can be added to a study team. The Human Subjects training course is combined with the HIPAA-Research course. The certification period, upon successful training completion is 4 years. The basic course has 5 required modules and 5 electives. Total of 10 courses with passing score of 75%. The refresher course has 1 required module and 7 electives. Total of 8 courses with passing score of 75%. If you are a VA researcher and have taken the VA human subjects training, it did not include the HIPAA Privacy modules required to do research at UofL. You will need to also complete the HIPAA Privacy-VA Researchers-Basic Course to be compliant with UofL training requirements. Course Website: https://www.citiprogram.org Course Registration: Video Tutorial Register for CITI or update your account If you need assistance, please consult our guides to registering and troubleshooting with the CITI program. Checking CV/Training: To verify if your research team has current Human Subjects and HIPAA Research training, login to use the Power BI reports. If your submission was stopped in iRIS for "training validation," proof of training for the personnel in question must be submitted to the iRIS Service Desk at: https://iris.support.louisville.edu/jira/servicedesk/customer/portal/6. Below the search box, you will find "training update needed". Click on this icon and complete the form. Submissions will not be routed to the IRB until the training has been updated in the iRIS system. Non-University of Louisville Research Team Members: UofL Sponsored IT accounts can be requested for specific external individuals who need access to the iRIS system to conduct research activities reviewed by the UofL Institutional Review Board (IRB). Sponsorship is obtained through submitting a UofL IT Sponsored Account Request Form linked below. All requests will be reviewed by HSPP staff to ensure that there is a valid need for the account. Please review the HSPPO UofL Sponsored IT Account Guidelines and complete the request form as indicated. Please also note, the sponsored IT account does not give permission to work on a research project. If you are external to UofL, additional requirements may apply to be added to a UofL research team. Information for Student Researchers The University of Louisville IRB reviews projects led by students. Students consists of those in undergraduate, graduate, post-doctorate, fellowships, and resident programs. The UofL IRB requires student led research to go through the same review process as any other research project at the University that involves participants. Student led research must be overseen by someone with a UofL faculty or staff appointment. This person must serve as the principal investigator (PI). The student may serve as a co-investigator or sub-investigator. It is the PI’s responsibility to ensure that applicable research policies, processes, and regulations are being followed. The PI is also responsible for issuing sign off of the research plan. After the PI signs off on the initial IRB submission, the student can submit to the IRB and respond to any questions or changes that the IRB may have. The IRB uses an electronic submission system called iRIS. Human Subjects Research Submit a New Study Continue a Study Amend a Study Report a Study Event Closing a Study Templates/Resources Policy Manual/Guides External Collaborations International Research Questions, Complaints or Concerns for the IRB ClinicalTrials.gov Registration IRIS LOGIN AND GUIDEs Use the link below to access iRIS to submit to the IRB. iRIS INSTRUCTIONAL RESOURCES iRIS VIDEO TUTORIALS IRB COMMITTEE INFORMATION Social/Behavioral/Educational (SBE) IRB Chair: Pete Quesada, Ph.D. Vice Chair: Melissa Evans-Andris, Ph.D. Biomedical IRB Chair: Laura Clark, MD Vice Chair: Serge Martinez, MD Vice Chair: Julie Goldman, MD Vice Chair: Paula Radmacher, PhD Vice Chair: Philip Rosenbloom, MD UofL IRB Calendar & Fees: 2022 IRB Calendar 2021 IRB Calendar Review Fee Schedule UofL FWA & OHRP Rosters: Federal Wide Assurance Current and Past IRB Rosters CONTACT Human Subject Protection Program Phone: 502.852.5188 Fax: 502.852.2164 hsppofc@louisville.edu FULL STAFF LISTING Chat With IRB Staff! (Chat is available on weekdays, Monday-Friday, between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m.) NEWS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS IRB Newsletters Announcements Archive Join the HSPPO/IRB Email listserv for updates. Please see our COVID-19 document for the latest human subjects research guidance. OFFICE OF RESEARCH & INNOVATION University of Louisville 300 E Market Street Louisville, Kentucky 40202 MORE INFORMATION Phone (Main) 502.852.6512, 502.852.8361 (Fax) Looking for a unit within the Office of Research and Innovation? Contact information here. Email Email Research and Innovation Service Account © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville