Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online First Year Experience Navigation Home Summer Programs First-Generation Programs READY Mentoring First-Gen Cards Program First-Generation ProgramsFirst-Generation Programs Dropdown Toggle READY Mentoring First-Gen Cards Program Peer Mentoring CARDS Connection (Summer) Ambassadors (Fall/Spring) Become a Mentor Peer MentoringPeer Mentoring Dropdown Toggle CARDS Connection (Summer) Ambassadors (Fall/Spring) Become a Mentor Events Welcome Week Winter Welcome Finals Countdown EventsEvents Dropdown Toggle Welcome Week Winter Welcome Finals Countdown Cardinal Compass Additional Resources New Cards Navigator FAQ Additional ResourcesAdditional Resources Dropdown Toggle New Cards Navigator FAQ About Meet the FYE Team AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Meet the FYE Team Additional Resources New Cards Navigator FAQ Home / Additional Resources / New Cards Navigator FAQ New Cards Navigator FAQ If you have questions or need more information, check out the frequently asked questions below, and see if the answer to your question is included. Most questions about New Cards Navigator fall into these two categories: Do you need technical support? Contact the Information Technology HelpDesk. Do you have a question about your quiz or how the modules will fit into your academic orientation course assignments and grade? Email your instructor, whose name will be listed in your Orientation Course in Blackboard or on the schedule of courses, or look on your course syllabus which you will receive on the first day of class. If these resources still don't answer your questions, feel free to contact us at firstyear@louisville.edu. What is New Cards Navigator? Why is New Cards Navigator important? Where do I find the modules? What is Blackboard? How do I log into Blackboard? My connection speed is too slow. What do I do? I would like to watch the modules on campus. Where is the best place to go? I need to switch sections of my academic orientation course but I already have grades for a few of the quizzes. How do I get my grades to the instructor of my new section? I have a visual/hearing impairment. Do I need to do anything differently to complete the New Cards Navigator modules? What is New Cards Navigator? This series of three learning modules are an important part of your first year academic orientation course, which is called something different depending on which academic unit in which you are enrolled (Arts & Sciences: GEN-101 or GEN-100; Education-Teacher Preparation: EDTP-101; Business: CAMP-100; Dental Hygiene: DHED-101; Engineering: ENGR-110; Health and Sport Sciences: HSS-181; Honors: HON-202; Music: MUS-100; Nursing: NURS-101; Public Health: PHUN-100; Social Work: SW-101). You'll find New Cards Navigator within the Blackboard component of your academic orientation course. (See below for additional information.) You will complete the three modules in order to learn information that will be important to your success as a UofL student. Each module includes both new and review information in addition to quiz questions throughout the module to test what you've learned. Once you have successfully completed the module, you will be able to view and download your personalized completion certificate and follow directions to submit it within your academic orientation course New Cards Navigator assignment as proof of completion. Why is New Cards Navigator important? These modules, in tandem with your other first year experiences, will ease your college transition and help you to understand the academic policies, procedures, and opportunities that will make your time at the university as successful as possible. Being a student at UofL will be a lot different than high school or any other college or university you may have attended before now, so it’s important that you’ve got support on your path to earning your degree at UofL. New Cards Navigator is one of the ways that UofL can support you as you begin your academic journey. Where do I find the modules? New Cards Navigator can be accessed via your orientation course in Blackboard. (Arts & Sciences: GEN-101 or GEN-100; Education-Teacher Preparation: EDTP-101; Business: CAMP-100; Dental Hygiene: DHED-101; Engineering: ENGR-110; Health and Sport Sciences: HSS-181; Honors: HON-202; Music: MUS-100; Nursing: NURS-101; Public Health: PHUN-100; Social Work: SW-101). Once you have logged into Blackboard, look under “My Courses” for your orientation course link. After you’ve clicked on the link to enter the course, look among the tabs on the left for “New Cards Navigator.” If you don't see the left-hand tabs/links in your course, try changing browsers. Once in the New Cards Navigator tab you will find instructions and modules. You will need to view the modules using a high speed Internet connection. If you don’t have a high speed connection at home, try a public library or UofL computer lab. What is Blackboard? Blackboard is the Web-based course delivery system used at the University of Louisville to teach fully online courses and to supplement face-to-face courses. Faculty can post their syllabus, lectures, assignments and tests on the system as well as use collaborative tools such as discussion boards and chat rooms to interact with students. Blackboard may be accessed by going to: http://blackboard.louisville.edu You may check the University of Louisville Blackboard Help information before or after you have logged into Blackboard. The help option will appear as a “Help” tab in the upper right corner of your screen. How do I log in to Blackboard? You can log in to Blackboard by going to http://blackboard.louisville.edu. Bookmark this page for future reference. Important announcements about the system are reported on this page. Find the login box where you will enter your user name and password. (These are the same as you would use to log into other University of Louisville network systems such as ULink and your UofL email account). You will then have access to Blackboard. If you are having trouble logging into Blackboard, contact the IT HelpDesk. My connection speed is too slow. What do I do? To view the modules, go to a location that offers high-speed Internet access. All incoming and current students can use UofL computers, or you can check with a local library or your high school to see if their computers meet the system requirements. I would like to watch the modules on campus. Where is the best place to go? The university libraries as well as the IT computer labs around campus will have the system requirements you need to view the modules. At most labs you will need to use your own or lab-provided headsets to listen to the audio for each module. Check out this list of the locations of UofL computer labs. I need to switch sections of my academic orientation course but I already have grades for a few of the quizzes. How do I get my grades to the instructor of my new section? It is important to know that any time you change sections of a course and you already have grades recorded in the Blackboard grade book, those grades will not automatically be transferred to your new section. So, if you complete one or more of the New Cards Navigator modules but then decide to change sections of your academic orientation course, log back into the module(s) you completed using the links in Blackboard, and you can proceed to the end of the module to access your completion certificate. Upload the certificate in your new course section, just as you did the first time. I have a visual/hearing impairment. Do I need to do anything differently to complete the modules? The modules are accessible to all students. Students with hearing impairments will note that all modules are Closed Captioned. Attempts have been made to make these modules accessible to all users. If you use assistive technology and would be willing to share your feedback, it will help us make your and other students' experiences as smooth as possible. Please contact the Disability Resource Center (askdrc@louisville.edu or 502-852-6938) if you need additional support completing this module. Additional Resources New Cards Navigator FAQ First Year Experience Belknap Academic Building, Suite 202 University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Office Hours M-F 8:30am to 5:00 pm No holiday hours Phone tel (502) 852-7515 fax (502) 852-9009 Email firstyear@louisville.edu Social Media Twitter @UofLSuccess Facebook Instagram © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville