No images? Click here May 23, 2022 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews SGA NEWS The 2022-2023 Student Government Association’s Executive Staff Applications are now OPEN! The deadline to apply is June 5, 2022 at 11:59PM. We encourage those interested to apply by clicking the link here or by locating the form on SGA’s page in Engage. Finalists will undergo a round of interviews beginning on June 8. WHAT'S HAPPENING Summer badging program This summer 2022, students can earn workforce skills and a chance to win an Amazon Kindle Fire! Information about the program, program details, where to submit badges/certificates, and more information found here: express.adobe.com/page/u1wf2ECU9fiOr STUDENT AFFAIRS PODCAST SERIES Podcast Be sure to check out the latest podcast from Student Affairs. Check it out here: louisville.edu/student/podcast DINING UofL Dining summer hours Check out our summer hours of operation. Ville Grill will reopen May 31 for summer hours. Their hours will be Monday–Friday, 11 a.m.–2 p.m.; Saturday–Sunday closed. louisville.campusdish.com SPORTS Men's Rugby Club on national TV Saturday The Men's Rugby Club competes this weekend in their National Championship Tournament. Their first game will be Saturday afternoon at 1:50pm vs Iowa State, and will be televised nationally on the Rugby Channel and CBS Sports Network, which are available on Roku, Firestick, and other devices. cbssports.com SRC summer memberships Were you a student this spring, or will be next fall, but not over the summer but want access to the SRC? Summer memberships are available for $50. They will be good until the start of the fall semester. Current IDs expired May 16. louisville.edu/intramurals SRC summer hours of operation Summer hours of operation for the Student Recreation Center are weekdays 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., Saturdays 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and Sundays 1:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. Thank you in advance for your understanding and cooperation. louisville.edu/intramurals SUSTAINABILITY Bike Month Challenge! Ride with UofL and win! May is Bike Month. Ride with Team UofL in the Bike Month Challenge to win prizes. The top UofL rider gets a $200 bike shop voucher. All will be rewarded with joy, fitness, community & cleaner air. Register for Bike Month Challenge at lovetoride.net & join Team UofL at strava.com/clubs/269639. ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. What are my rights and responsibilities as a student? A. You can view the Code of Student’s Rights and Responsibilities online athttp://louisville.edu/dos/students/studentrightsandresponsibilities. Additional responsibilities for students are outlined in the Code of Student Conduct (louisville.edu/dos/students/codeofconduct) and Student Sexual Misconduct Policy (louisville.edu/dos/students/studentpoliciesandprocedures/student-sexual-misconduct-policy). The UofL Redbook details the student grievance policy and other University policies (louisville.edu/provost/redbook/contents.html). DID YOU KNOW? UofL offers a wide range of scholarships, grants, loans and work-study opportunities to help you pay for your education. Go to: louisville.edu/admissions/aid CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe