No images? Click here April 11, 2022 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Anatomy Fashion Show (AFS) The Anatomy Fashion Show is on Thursday, April 14 from 6–8 p.m. at the SAC Multipurpose Room. dinner will be served. The entrance cost is $5, and you can bring anyone you want with you, all money will be donated to the Norton Children’s Hospital. Get tickets here. More information here. IMPORTANT INFORMATION Speak up Are you graduating this semester? Check your UofL email and fill out the Graduating Student Survey (GSS) to tell us about your UofL experience. This important survey helps us improve all that UofL has to offer. Your voice matters. University policies RSOs need to know The University of Louisville hosts over 400 student organizations covering a wide variety of student interests. These groups provide a wonderful opportunity to become involved in campus life and to connect with other students on campus. To view the policies, click here: louisville.edu/dos/students/studentorganizations April is Financial Literacy Month PNC, the official bank of UofL, is offering a variety of free articles, videos and seminars to help you learn how to make smart money decisions and build healthy financial habits. Visit pnc.com/myfinanceacademy. ACADEMICS Master of Science in Biostatistics Master of Science in biostatistics is a diverse degree ranging from training in research studies, clinical trials, investigation, statistical methods, computational techniques, and more. Even better, the program is offered in person and online. catalog.louisville.edu/graduate/programs-study/master-science-biostatistics WHAT'S HAPPENING Asian American Pacific Islander Heritage Week The University of Louisville Asian, Asian American, and Pacific Islander (AAPI) Faculty and Staff Association is excited to announce the inaugural UofL AAPI Heritage Week Celebration. We dedicate the week of April 10 – April 16 to recognize the contributions and influence of Asians, Asian Americans, and Pacific Islander Americans to the history, culture, and achievements of the United States. Please share the event lineup with your networks. More information may be found on the Cultural Center website. Opening Event: Reflections on the Invisible Minority and Moving Forward in Solidarity Sponsored by AAPI Faculty and Staff Association and Office of Diversity and Equity. Special Guests: Kentucky State Representative Nima Kulkarni and President Lori Gonzalez. Monday, April 11, 11:30 a.m.–1:30 p.m., University Club Ballroom, registration: tinyurl.com/ncy2w4w9 Femme Forward: UofL Women's Journeys Celebrating AAPI Heritage Sponsored by Employee Success Center and AAPI Faculty and Staff Association, Tuesday, April 12, 1–2 p.m., virtual, registration: tinyurl.com/v7snnsf4 Meet the Professor Lecture: Dr. Jianhua (Andrew) Zhao Sponsored by Commonwealth Center for the Humanities and Society, Wednesday, April 13, 5–6:30 p.m., virtual, registration: tinyurl.com/2hw8p2j3 Cultural Conexiones celebrating AAPI Heritage Sponsored by Cultural and Equity Center, Thursday, April 14, 12–1 p.m., Cultural and Equity Center, registration: tinyurl.com/2ct4wth3 Crane House Young Professionals: Spring Recruitment Sponsored by Asia Institute Crane House, Thursday, April 14, 7–9 p.m., Asia Institute Crane House, registration: email Amber Ma at Crane House. K^Motion: End of Year Showcase Sponsored by K^Motion (Cardinal K-Pop Dance Team), Friday, April 15, 5–7:30 p.m., Strickler Hall, Middleton Theatre 101, registration: tinyurl.com/s9cwzuz3 Come out for a lovely performance of Kpop songs. We will also be having a raffle for a BTS album. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/8012295 Night of the Stars: AAPI Gala Celebration Sponsored by Asian Pacific Student Union and Commission on Diversity and Racial Equity, Saturday, April 16, 7–9 p.m., Red Barn, Registration: tinyurl.com/cjpv3y49 Family Friendly Events Food Truck Fest Food Truck Fest is back April 11 & 12 from 6 p.m.–10 p.m. in the BAB Quad. On April 11 & 12, you will be able to purchase food from the food trucks using cash, credit, or debit. louisville.edu/dining Divestment Rally Come join us at our Divestment Rally on April 13 at noon in the SAC Plaza in front of the Red Barn. We will have art supplies and signs and have community speakers such as Mayoral Candidate Shameka Parrish, Metro Candidate Betsy Ruhe, and Representative Attica Scott's daughter Ashanti Scott. We urge the university to divest funds from fossil fuels, policing, private prisons, and more. Visit tinyurl.com/cfxb7md8 to read/sign our petition. RSVP Family Friendly Event The Good Business Summit Canopy's 2nd Annual Good Business Summit on Thursday, April 14 is the premier event for Kentucky’s socially and environmentally engaged entrepreneurs and students. This event will start at 9:30 a.m. at the Speed Art Museum. Tickets: www.eventbrite.com/e/canopys-2nd-annual-good-business-summit-tickets-260538326147 UofL Justice & Music Join the Criminal Justice Organization and Social Change Program on Thursday, April 14 from 11 a.m.–12:15 p.m. in the Red Barn. Come out for FOOD, GAMES, GIVEAWAYS, & MORE. www.instagram.com/uofl_jam2022/ Crawfish Boil The Student Activities Board presents the 36th Annual Crawfish Boil, Friday, April 22, 5–9 p.m., Red Barn/West Plaza. Come for games, prizes, music, and of course, crawfish. Get your choice of our delicious crawfish, sausage, potatoes, corn, and eggs. FREE admission for UofL students. and $10 for community members. RSVP Family Friendly Event Graduate Day at the Downs 2022 In celebration of graduation, Graduates are invited to Graduate Day at the Downs, presented by Louisville Alumni and UofL Student Affairs, and sponsored by UofL's SAB and SGA. This event is open to August 2021, December 2021, and May 2022 UofL graduates. Reserve your complimentary ticket for Twilight Thursday racing on May 12. Gates open at 4 p.m.; the first race is at 5 p.m. All tickets must be pre-ordered, including the free tickets for graduates, by the end of day on Wednesday, May 4. Each graduate will receive one free ticket. Additional tickets are $12 each. No refunds. More information at www.uoflalumni.org/s/1157/19/alumni/interior.aspx?sid=1157&gid=1&pgid=7224&content_id=8620 STUDENT AFFAIRS PODCAST SERIES CardsSpeak Podcast Be sure to check out the latest podcast from Student Affairs about UofL CardsSpeak and suicide prevention. Check it out here: louisville.edu/student/podcast AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Nominate your Faculty Favorite today Do you have a favorite faculty, staff or TA that made an impact on your semester, either online or in-person? Thank them for their dedication by nominating them for UofL's Faculty Favorite Award. The submission deadline is May 6. Submit your nomination today. uofl.me/facultyfavorite SPORTS Baseball mid-week game The UofL Baseball team is taking on the University of Cincinnati this Tuesday, April 12 at 6 p.m. at Jim Patterson Stadium. It’s Cancer Awareness Night, and there will be a free t-shirt giveaway for the first 250 fans. Admission is free. gocards.com/calendar Track & Field host the Louisville Invitational The UofL Track and Field team will host an all-day meet Friday, April 15 and Saturday, April 16. Admission is free to Owsley B. Frazier Cardinal Park. There will be free pizza for students in attendance on Saturday. gocards.com/calendar Egging Out at the Ball Park The UofL Softball team goes head-to-head with the University of Syracuse for their series starting April 15–17. Saturday’s game at 1 pm will have an egg hunt on the field after the game for children under the age of 12. Admission is free to Ulmer Stadium. gocards.com/calendar Badminton Club in the SRC The Badminton Club meets on Friday evenings in the SRC from 6–9 p.m. on the upstairs gym floor courts. Professional instruction and open play is available in a low-key, inclusive environment. See our website for contact information. ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. What support and resources does the UofL Women’s Center provide? A. The Women’s Center provides a safe space for students on campus, programming, student groups, volunteer opportunities, a mentor program, and so much more. Learn more at their website louisville.edu/womenscenter, email womenctr@louisville.edu, or call (502) 852-8976. DID YOU KNOW? The Cultural Center offers advocacy for UofL students, celebrates the diverse cultures of the campus community, engages students in social justice issues, and supports the scholarship and retention of UofL students. Visit louisville.edu/culturalcenter for more information. CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe