Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ Patient Care/ Patient Information/ Your First Visits Navigation Contact Information Price Comparison Guide Your Payment Options Your First Visits Your Confidentiality Your Rights and Responsibilities Your Advisory Council Patient Information and Welcome Packet Your Opinion – Online Quality Assessment Your First Visits The University of Louisville School of Dentistry offers an affordable full range of general and specialty services in a friendly, patient-centered environment. After an initial visit which includes a short health evaluation and dental screening, we will help guide you to make a decision about your placement for treatment. The complexity of your medical and dental needs, as well as your budget will also determine whether you’ll be seen by a student, resident, or faculty provider. Please note: If your budget allows, you may choose from the beginning to become a patient of our faculty practice, UofL Dental Associates, and your experience will be similar to that of a private practice. Learn more about our practices. In the DMD student clinic, appointments are booked in three hour blocks. We are a teaching-learning environment, and our student doctors are working to become proficient in their techniques. Although treatment delivered by students can be lengthy, you will receive excellent quality care under the close supervision of our faculty. We are a fee-for-service operation. It is our goal to keep the cost of dental treatment as low as possible, however, we cannot provide free care. The School of Dentistry is not a federally-qualified health care center, and we do not offer a sliding fee scale. However, our fees are 1/3 to ½ less than private practice. Most major dental insurance plans are accepted, and an interest-free payment plan is available. To Schedule Your Screening Appointment Call 502-852-5096 If applicable, please ask your dental office to email digital copies of x-rays, along with your dental/medical records to dentalca@louisville.edu prior to your first appointment. Film/paper can be mailed: Records RoomSchool of DentistryUniversity of Louisville501 S. Preston St.Louisville, KY 40202 Interpreter Services Available Non-English speaking patients have the right to a medical interpreter at no cost. At check-in, please point to your language on the Interpreter Services Poster. A medical interpreter will be called. Click the poster to view some of the languages available. ----->>>> What to Expect: Before Your Visit Your First Visit Your Second and Third Visits Call 502-852-5096 to schedule a screening appointment. (90 minutes) UofL is a fee-for-service based facility; patients are responsible for fees not paid by their insurance Non-Refundable Screening Fee of $52.00 Gather required information: Valid Photo ID Emergency Contact Information Insurance/Medicaid Card(s) Your Health History, which is part of your New Patient Information packet (PDF) Current list of physicians and phone numbers and explanation of involvement in your care Current list of medications Prior to your visit, send your current dental records/x-rays to dentalca@louisville.edu or address above. This may save you money if your insurance does not cover. Your screening appointment will be 90 minutes long Please arrive a few minutes early to register with our Patient Services Representatives Pay your non-refundable $52.00 screening fee A Panoramic x-ray of your mouth will be taken. There may be additional fees for this service, based upon your insurance coverage. A model or cast of your teeth will be created You will be asked questions about your Health History and current list of medications. Your current records/x-rays from referring providers/ private dentists will be reviewed Please leave children at home or bring another adult to supervise them in the waiting area Please share your concerns and ask questions to ensure open communications and transparency during your treatment. A comprehensive examination is completed in two separate appointments. Based upon your initial screening, additional x-rays may be required to develop your treatment plan. A cast or mold of your mouth is created. The cost for these visits depends upon the number of additional diagnostic images needed, as well as clinic assignment and insurance coverage You will be assigned to a clinic based upon the complexity of your needs, budget and personal preference. A treatment plan will be developed and discussed with you, and appointments scheduled. Future DMD Clinic visits can last up to 3 hours, please plan accordingly. Payment plans can be made. We value our patients and need your feedback! Please take a moment to help us improve by completing a patient survey. School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville