Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Student Financial Aid Office Navigation Home Financial Aid: Start to Finish Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Financial Aid: Start to FinishFinancial Aid: Start to Finish Dropdown Toggle Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Loans Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment LoansLoans Dropdown Toggle Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment Grants Work Study Scholarships and Other Resources Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments Scholarships and Other ResourcesScholarships and Other Resources Dropdown Toggle Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments State Aid KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change State AidState Aid Dropdown Toggle KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change Tuition Waivers Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Tuition WaiversTuition Waivers Dropdown Toggle Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Verification Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf VerificationVerification Dropdown Toggle Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Satisfactory Academic ProgressSatisfactory Academic Progress Dropdown Toggle Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Summer Financial Aid Competency Based Education—Healthcare Leadership Flex Option Program Consumer Information Net Price Calculator ED Net Price Calculator Net Price CalculatorNet Price Calculator Dropdown Toggle ED Net Price Calculator Other Information Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Other InformationOther Information Dropdown Toggle Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Financial Wellness Contact Us Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Contact UsContact Us Dropdown Toggle Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Reporting Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Scholarships and Other Resources Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments The 2022-2023 scholarship application period closed on March 1, 2022 The University of Louisville does not discriminate on the basis of race, sex, age, color, national origin, ethnicity, creed, religion, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity or expression, marital status, pregnancy, or disability of an otherwise qualified individual in educational programs and activities. Accordingly, while a program or activity may be focused on the needs or issues of a particular group, they are intended to be inclusive of all and any participant may benefit from attendance or participation in these programs and activities. African American Alumni Council Scholarship The African American Alumni Council Scholarship is awarded to University of Louisville students pursuing a undergraduate or graduate degree. Racial consideration will be given in addition to financial need and academic merit. First preference will be given to applicants from Jefferson County, Kentucky. Al Woodruff-UofL Alumni Club of Arizona Scholarship The Al Woodruff-UofL Alumni Club of Arizona Scholarship is awarded to Arizona residents or students who graduated from an Arizona high school pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. Recipients will be selected based on a combination of academic achievement (3.0 GPA or above) and financial need as determined by the Student Financial Aid Office. Atlanta Alumni Club Scholarship The Atlanta Alumni Club Scholarship is awarded to Atlanta, GA residents or students who graduated from an Atlanta area high school pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. Michael R. Baer Scholarship This scholarship is available to students from Fayette, Jessamine, Woodford, Clark, Bourbon, Scott, Harrison, and Madison counties seeking a degree at the University of Louisville, who are graduates of a Lexington area high school. The recipient shall be selected on the basis of financial need. The recipient shall also have a 3.0 GPA in high school or previous college experience. Consideration shall be given to applicants whose father, mother, or guardian is a recovering patient, current patient, or victim of a terminal illness. Preference will be given to students who best exemplify the following characteristics: leadership ability, academic achievement, and breadth of interests. Please note: Preference is given to students whose personal statement describes how they demonstrate leadership ability, academic achievement, and breadth of interests. Please also describe your relationship with a recovering patient, current patient, or victim of a terminal illness. Bardstown Area Alumni Club Scholarship Available to students from the Bardstown-Nelson County, KY area pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville who meet the minimum admissions requirements. Birmingham Area Alumni Club Scholarship The Birmingham Area Alumni Club Scholarship is awarded to Birmingham, AL residents or students who graduated from a Birmingham area high school pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. Frances "Frankie" Boone Scholarship This scholarship is provide to an undergraduate, degree-seeking student who has demonstrated a need for assistance due to financial limitations or lack of assistance from other sources. Renewal may be considered when funding is available. Bowling Green/South Central KY Alumni Club Scholarship Available to students from the Bowling Green - South Central KY area pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville who meet the minimum admissions requirements. Bridgeman Scholarship The Bridgeman Scholarship is awarded based on academic merit and financial need for students from the west end of Louisville. Preference will be given to student who graduate from the West End School. If there are no students who meet this criteria, second preference is given to student who reside in the west end of Louisville (40203, 40202 and 40208) and participate or volunteer in community organizations geared toward serving west end youth. Recipients must be entering first year students or transfers. Major Dameion D. Briggs Scholarship The Major Dameion D. Briggs Scholarship is awarded to a non-resident student accepted into or enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences. The recipient must be in good academic standing and have demonstrated financial need. Preference is given to an Air Force ROTC cadet. Brooks-Gibson Scholarship The Brooks-Gibson Scholarship is awarded to a first-year, full-time, undergraduate student who graduated from Union County High School and has demonstrated financial need. The student must have a minimum high school grade point average (GPA) of 3.25 and ACT of 20. A letter of recommendation and essay are required. Teresa A. Butt Memorial Scholarship The late Teresa Butt believed in the power of education. She thought the world was a harder place for young women with no contacts or family funding. Family and friends of the late Teresa Butt have joined together to create a scholarship in her memory. This scholarship is to be awarded to a female student seeking a degree at the University of Louisville. The selected student should demonstrate financial need and/or academic merit. The scholarship is eligible for renewal for subsequent years as long as a minimum cumulative Grade Point Average (GPA) of 3.0 is maintained and satisfactory progress towards a degree is being made. John Caddy Memorial/American Air Filter International Scholarship The John Caddy Memorial/American Air Filter International Scholarship is awarded based on merit to an employee of American Air Filter International or their spouse or dependent. The recipient must be a full time undergraduate, graduate or professional student. Applications are distributed to eligible applicants by American Air Filter International. William G. Caldwell (Southern California) Scholarship Fund The William G. Caldwell Scholarship is awarded to Southern California residents pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. Recipients will be selected based on a combination of academic achievement (3.0 GPA or above) and financial need as determined by the Student Financial Aid Office. Cardinal Completer Scholarship The Cardinal Completer Scholarship is awarded based on academic merit and/or need. Eligible applicants must have 80 credit hours or more and have not completed their degree. Carl F. Pollard Scholarship The Carl F. Pollard Scholarship is awarded annually to two first-generation, freshman students who are residents of Kentucky with preference given to students who were enrolled in The Cabbage Patch Settlement House's College Scholar Program . The recipients must have a minimum 2.8 high school grade point average, financial need, and a demonstrated history of extracurricular and community involvement. The scholarship is renewable for up to 8 semesters so long as the student maintains sufficient academic progress (cumulative 2.8 GPA) and meets all other eligibility criteria. Central Kentucky Alumni Club Scholarship This scholarship is available to students from Fayette, Jessamine, Woodford, Clark, Bourbon, Scott, Harrison, and Madison counties seeking a degree at the University of Louisville, who are graduates of a Lexington area high school. The recipient shall be selected on the basis of financial need and/or academic merit. Preference will be given to students who best exemplify the following characteristics: leadership ability, academic achievement, and breadth of interests. Please note:Preference is given to students whose personal statement describes how they demonstrate leadership ability, academic achievement, and breadth of interests. Charlotte Alumni Club Scholarship The Charlotte Alumni Club Scholarship is awarded to Charlotte, NC residents or students who graduated from a Charlotte area high school pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. Chicago Alumni Club Scholarship The Charlotte Alumni Club Scholarship is awarded to Chicago, IL area residents or students who graduated from a Chicago area high school pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. J. Gorman and Mary E. Conliffe Scholarship The J. Gorman and Mary E. Conliffe Scholarship is awarded to undergraduate students pursuing any degree at the University of Louisville. This scholarship will be awarded to a student who demonstrates academic promise but faces documented financial limitations in the pursuit of the degree. This scholarship will be used to help meet the expenses of an undergraduate education. This scholarship is renewable throughout the recipient's undergraduate school career as long as the recipient maintains a 2.5 GPA, participates and documents ten hours of volunteer service per semester at a Louisville Area homeless shelter and continues to satisfy criteria herein. Denny Crum Scholarship This scholarship is available to graduating high school seniors, high school graduates, or community college transfer students from the greater Louisville area that are admitted to, or enrolled in, a degree granting program at the University of Louisville. The recipient shall be selected on the basis of demonstrated leadership, community service, and academic achievement. Unusual family or personal circumstances may also be considered. Please note: Preference is given to students whose personal statement describes how they have demonstrated leadership, community service, and academic achievement. Dallas/Ft. Worth Alumni Club Scholarship The Dallas/Ft. Worth Alumni Club Scholarship is awarded to a student from the Dallas/Ft. Worth area who is seeking a degree at the University of Louisville. Student will be selected on the basis of financial need and merit. Student must have a 3.0 cumulative GPA from high school or previous college experience. Alice Scott Dawson Scholarship The Alice Scott Dawson Scholarship is awarded to a female graduate of Waggener High School, in Louisville, Kentucky with a 3.0 GPA. The recipient must demonstrate leadership potential, participation in high school activities and volunteerism. Denver Alumni Club Scholarship The Denver Alumni Club Scholarship is awarded to Denver, CO residents or students who graduated from a Denver area high school pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. Eagle Steel Scholarship The Eagle Steel Scholarship is awarded to an Eagle Steel employee or employee's dependent. If no eligible applicant is available, second preference will be to provide a scholarship to a student on the basis of academic merit and/or demonstrated financial need. E. North Carolina Alumni Club Scholarship The E. North Carolina Alumni Club Scholarship is awarded to East North Carolina residents or students who graduated from a east North Carolina area high school pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. Fields Alumni Scholarship This program provides funds to nontraditional students pursuing an undergraduate degree at the University of Louisville. Student must be full-time (12 or more credit hours), be at least 25 years of age, be supporting at least one dependent, and have a 3.0 minimum GPA. Fischer Family Scholarship The Fischer Family Scholarship is awarded to an employee or employee dependent of SerVend. If no eligible applicant is available, second preference is given to a Trinity High School, Louisville, Kentucky graduate with demonstrated financial need. Third preference is given to a graduate of Jefferson Community and Technical College or a student transferring from Jefferson Community and Technical College with 24 or more complete credit hours and demonstrated financial need. Ford Motor Company Scholarship This scholarship is awarded to minorities or women who have a connection to Ford Motor Company as an employee, their spouse, or child (persons without a Ford connection will be considered ONLY in the event that no Ford Motor Company employee, their spouse, or children apply). Applicants must also be a resident of the Commonwealth of Kentucky, an undergraduate pursuing a first degree (graduates and post-bac's may be considered on an exception basis) at the University of Louisville, and must have demonstrated academic merit. For entering freshment, a high school GPA of 3.0 or above and a composite ACT score of 20 or above is required. For continuing UofL students, a cumulative college GPA of 2.5 or above is required. Transfer, non-traditional, post-bac, and graduate level students must have comparable proof of academic merit (to be reviewed on an individual basis). Additional documentation for this scholarship is required: Preference is given to students connected to the Ford Motor Company. If applicable, please include the Ford Motor Company Verification of Connection in your scholarship application materials. Friel Scholarship The Friel Scholarship is awarded to a female student who demonstrates financial need and is pursuing a degree at the J.B. Speed School of Engineering. This selected student should demonstrates the academic competency to be a successful student in the Speed School and should value participation in high school athletics. Please note: Preference is given to students whose personal statement describes how they value participation in high school athletics. Greater St. Louis Alumni Club Scholarship The Greater St. Louis Alumni Club Scholarship is awarded to Greater St. Louis residents or students who graduated from a Greater St. Louis area high school pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville based on financial need and/or academic merit. Heartland (Elizabethtown, KY) Alumni Club Available to students from the Elizabethtown area pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville who meet the minimum admissions requirements. Hecker Scholarship The Hecker Scholarship is awarded to a student(s) pursuing a degree in Humanities. The recipient must have demonstrated financial need and a sincere intention to further their degree. Hirscheimer Memorial Scholarship The Delta Phi Epsilon Hersheimer Memorial Scholarship is awarded to an undergraduate student. The recipient must maintain a 2.5 grade point average (GPA) and have demonstrated financial need. Vivian Hill Scholarship The Vivian Hill Scholarship is provided primarily for students at the University of Louisville who demonstrate financial need based on the rising cost of tuition and information provided on the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA). Houston Area Alumni Club Scholarship The Houston Area Alumni Club Scholarship is awarded to Houston, TX area residents or students who graduated from a Houston area high school pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. Orville W. Jones Scholarship The Orville W. Jones Scholarship is awarded to an undergraduate or graduate Speed School student. Preference is given to a student whose mother and/or father is deceased. Raymond A. Kent - Navy V-12/ROTC Scholarship This scholarship will be awarded to students pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville who are direct decendants of an individual who has served or whose parent or grandparent has served in the V-12 Program or the Naval ROTC at the University of Louisville. This scholarship will be awarded on the basis of financial need and/or academic merit. Additional documentation for this scholarship is required: Certification showing your relationship with the V-12 Program or the UofL Naval ROTC program is required. Kentucky Health Systems Agency-West Scholarship Fund (KHSA-West Scholarship) The KHSA-West Scholarship is awarded to Kentucky residents pursuing an undergraduate health-related field of study (excluding pre-veterinary medicine) at the University of Louisville. The recipient must be an undergraduate who has completed at least 24 credit hours. Awards will be based on a combination of academic achievement (3.0 GPA or above) and financial need as determined by the Student Financial Aid Office. This scholarship is awarded for one year with renewal assistance based upon successful competitive reapplication. Robert and Gladys Koetter Family Scholarship The Robert and Gladys Koetter Family Scholarship is awarded to an employee or an employee's dependent of the Koetter Construction Company (or related companies). If there are no eligible candidates, scholarship can be awarded to a southern Indiana resident. The recipient must be from Clark, Crawford, Floyd, Harrison or Scott County and be pursuing an undergraduate degree. Kroger Scholars Program - Zero Hunger | Zero Waste Rising sophomores, juniors and/or seniors pursuing an undergraduate degree within the University of Louisville's College of Business, Speed School of Engineering, Public Health and Informational Sciences, Arts & Sciences Department of Urban and Public Affairs or the Kent School of Social Work are invited to apply to be a Kroger Scholar. Preference is given to low-income, under-represented minorities and others that will help advance Kroger's Zero Hunger | Zero Waste social and environmental impact plan. Kroger Scholars meet periodically as a cohort throughout the academic year and present a project pertaining to a Zero Hunger and/or Zero Waste related subject, such as retail and/or on campus food waste diversion, retail supply chain waste diversion, food access for under privileged families and communities, innovative recycling and sustainability initiatives, sustainable agriculture, and landfill waste diversion. During the academic year, the donor provides opportunities for all scholars to meet and shadow their leadership team and learn about internship and employment opportunities at their company. Scholars are also invited to professional development opportunities hosted by the donor. Scholarships may be renewed for recipients that fulfill program requirements. Please note: Applicants must include a brief 250-500 word essay explaining why they are interested in Kroger’s Zero Hunger, Zero Waste initiative and what aspect of sustainability they would like to address on campus. Lake Cumberland Alumni Scholarship Available to students from Adair, Casey, Clinton, Cumberland, Laurel, McCreary, Pulaski, Rockcastle, Russell, and Wayne counties pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville who meet the minimum admissions requirements. Students must have a cumulative GPA of 3.5 or higher on a 4.0 scale and an ACT score of 24 or better. Lexington Area Alumni Scholarship The Lexington Area Alumni Scholarship is awarded to a graduate(s) of a Lexington, Kentucky area high school. The recipient must have good academic merit and demonstrated financial need. Lenny Lyles Scholarship Fund The Lenny Lyles scholarship will be awarded to an entering full-time, undergraduate degree-seeking student in the College of Arts and Sciences at the University of Louisville. Students must be economically disadvantaged and from the west end of Louisville. Students who receive this scholarship must have maintained a cumulative 2.5 Grade Point Average (GPA) in high school, maintained good attendance, and demonstrated good conduct and citizenship. If a 2.5 cumulative GPA is maintained at the University of Louisville, the selected student is eligible to submit a competitive reapplication. Dr. Mark and Cindy Lynn Scholarship The Dr. Mark and Cindy Lynn Scholarship is awarded to undergraduate students pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. This scholarship will be awarded to a student who demonstrates documented financial need in the pursuit of their degree. This scholarship will be used to help meet the expenses of tuition, room, board and/or books. This scholarship is renewable for five year of the recipient's undergraduate school career so long as the recipient maintains a 2.5 GPA. Rudy Mueller Alumni Club Scholarship The Rudy Mueller Alumni Club Scholarship is awarded to a graduate from an Indianapolis, IN area high school who is pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. The recipient is selected on the basis of financial need and/or academic merit. Nashville Area Alumni Scholarship The Nashville Area Alumni Scholarship is awarded to a student from the Nashville, Tennessee area. New Beginning Scholarship Fund This scholarship is awarded to non-traditional Kentucky residents who are pursuing an undergraduate degree at the University of Louisville, and who exhibit financial need. Recipients must no longer be supported by their parents and must be returning to college after a break in their education of at least one year. The New Beginning Scholarship Fund is renewable for subsequent years, provided the recipient maintains at least a 2.0 GPA and makes satisfactory progress toward a degree. The scholarship is very competitive and award amounts vary. New York Area Alumni Club Scholarship The New York Area Alumni Club Scholarship is awarded to Metro New York area residents or students who graduated from a Metro New York area high school pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. Please note: Preference is given to students who provide a personal statement describing how this award will help in his/her endeavors at the University of Louisville. North Florida Alumni Club Scholarship The North Florida Alumni Club Scholarship is awarded to North Florida area residents or students who graduated from a North Florida area high school pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. Dr. Frank & Donna Pensa Scholarship for Out-of-State Students The Dr. Frank & Donna Pensa Scholarship for Out-of-State Students is awarded to incoming, non-Kentucky resident students in the College of Arts & Sciences. Preference will be given to students who are residents of one of the following states: Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Vermont, New Hampshire or Maine. Philadelphia Area Alumni Club Scholarship The Philadelphia Area Alumni Club Scholarship is awarded to Philadelphia, PA area residents or students who graduated from a Philadelphia area high school pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. Ramsey-Community Trust Scholarship This scholarship is awarded to a dependent of a Community Trust Bancorp, Inc. employee. The recipient should be an incoming freshman with a minimum ACT of 20 and a high school GPA of 3.0. The award is based on merit and/or need. Dr. Sava M. and Emma C. Roberts Memorial Scholarship This scholarship is awarded to students seeking a degree in the College of Arts and Science, the Kent School of Social Work, or the School of Medicine at the University of Louisville based on need and/or academic merit. This scholarship is renewable if the student is making satisfactory progress towards a degree in their respective college or school. RC Tway Scholarship This scholarship is awarded to an employee or dependent of Kentucky Trailer Technologies who is living in Kentucky or Indiana. The recipient should be an entering freshman with a high school GPA of 2.8 or better and ACT of 20 or higher or a current student with a cumulative GPA of 2.5 or higher. The award is based on academic merit and extracurricular activities, strong work ethic and financial need. Roggenkamp Scholarship for Veterans' Descendants This scholarship is awarded to undergraduate or graduate dependents of veterans with priority to dependents of war veterans, based upon need and/or merit. In the even that no eligible students qualify for priority consideration, preference will be given to descendants of war veterans. Renewal through graduation is permitted if minimum renewal requirements are met. San Francisco Bay Area Alumni Club Scholarship The San Francisco Bay Area Alumni Club Scholarship is awarded to San Francisco Bay area residents or students who graduated from a San Francisco Bay area high school pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. Sarin Family Scholarship Fund The Sarin Family Scholarship Fund is awarded to a graduate of Shelby County High School (Kentucky). Student must have good academic merit or promise and demonstrated financial need. Schlaug Memorial Scholarship This scholarship is available to students with financial need. Preference for this scholarship will be given to a student with a disability. Shelbyville/Frankfort Area Alumni Club Scholarship Scholarship provided to students from the Shelbyville/Frankfort areas in Kentucky. Student will be selected on the basis of financial need and merit. Student must have a 3.0 cumulative GPA from high school or previous college experience. South Florida Alumni Club Scholarship The South Florida Alumni Club Scholarship is awarded to South Florida area residents or students who graduated from a South Florida area high school pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. Switzerland County Scholarship This scholarship is awarded to residents of Southern Indiana who are pursuing an undergraduate degree at the University of Louisville. Preference will be given to students from Switzerland County. If there are no eligible applicants from Switzerland County, a student from Clark, Floyd, Harrison, Scott, Crawford, or Washington County will be considered. Academic merit and demonstrated financial need will be considered in the awarding of the scholarship. Tampa Bay Alumni Club Scholarship The Tampa Bay Alumni Club Scholarship is awarded to Tampa Bay, Florida area residents or students who graduated from a Tampa Bay area high school pursuing a degree at the University of Louisville. Charles and Lillian Ojanen Thomas Scholarship The Charles and Lillian Ojanen Thomas Scholarship is awarded to a full-time undergraduate or graduate degree-seeking student who either has been orphaned, has grown up in one or more foster homes or is otherwise underprivileged. VanHoose Stewart Foundation Scholarship The VanHoose Stewart Foundation Scholarship is awarded to an active employee or dependent of Big Sandy Furniture/Big Sandy Distribution. The recipient must be enrolled as an undergraduate. Heidi King Vaughn Scholarship The Heidi King Vaughn Scholarship will be used to award a scholarship to a student being served by the Disability Resource Center who is seeking a degree from the University of Louisville. Preference will be given to students from Indiana or Kentucky. This scholarship will be awarded based on demonstrated need and/or academic merit. The award is renewable as long as the student maintains a minimum cumulative GPA (Grade Point Average) or 2.0 and makes satisfactory academic progress. Wagge Dane Alumni Club Scholarship This scholarship is provided to incoming University of Louisville freshman who reside in Boone, Kenton, Campbell, Grant, Carroll, Pendleton, or Gallatin counties in KY or Hamilton, Butler, or Warren counties in OH. Must complete this application and have applied for admission to the University of Louisville prior to April 1. Must include letter if recommendation from high school administrative staff or teacher, have a cumulative H.S GPA of 3.0 or better, and a 20 or better ACT composite score. Robert & Odile Whitaker Endowed Scholarship This scholarship is awarded to third or fourth year students with a GPA of 3.25 or higher who are enrolled in the College of Business. Rodney Williams Legacy Scholarship This scholarship is provided to incoming, first-time University of Louisville freshmen who are child or grandchild of a University of Louisville graduate (including institutions that merged with the university, such as Jefferson School of Law, the medical and dental residency programs, Kentucky Southern College and Louisville Municipal College). In addition to the application, students must include a resume highlighting school, community and civic activities, honors and leadership roles, and have a cumulative H.S GPA of 3.0 or better. Applicants must also submit a separate 300-word essay addressing how the University of Louisville has impacted your life and how you see it impacting your life in the future. Zonta Club of Louisville Inez Webb Award This scholarship is awarded to a single mother with financial limitations in the pursuit of an undergraduate degree at the University of Louisville who demonstrates honesty, integrity, and a commitment to the role and advancement of women in the workplace. Please note: Preference is given to students whose personal statement describes how they demonstrate honesty, integrity, and a commitment to the role and advancement of women in the workplace. The University of Louisville does not discriminate on the basis of race, sex, age, color, national origin, ethnicity, creed, religion, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity or expression, marital status, pregnancy, or disability of an otherwise qualified individual in educational programs and activities. Accordingly, while a program or activity may be focused on the needs or issues of a particular group, they are intended to be inclusive of all and any participant may benefit from attendance or participation in these programs and activities. How may we assist you? Email Service A dedicated student and communication service account is monitored by a team equipped to provide assistance to students. Email Financial Aid Service at: finaid@louisville.edu Call Center A dedicated call center is available to assist with all phone inquiries. Call Student Financial Aid at: (502) 852-5511 © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville