Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Web at UofL Resources and information for those who create and maintain UofL websites Navigation Home Plone 4 CMS Request a Site Getting Help Google Custom Search Template Designs Site Request Tool Instructions Search Result Reporting Courseleaf Integration Plone 4 CMSPlone 4 CMS Dropdown Toggle Request a Site Getting Help Google Custom Search Template Designs Site Request Tool Instructions Search Result Reporting Courseleaf Integration ADA How-tos Past Workshops Resources ADAADA Dropdown Toggle How-tos Past Workshops Resources Webguides Join the Webguides Team Channel Subscribing to the Listserv Webmaster Directory (XLSX) Webmaster Registration Form OLD Webmaster Self-Registration List (XLSX) Plone 4 HelpCenter Plone Webmaster Site list by IT 8-19-16 (XLSX) Slow Web Response WebguidesWebguides Dropdown Toggle Join the Webguides Team Channel Subscribing to the Listserv Webmaster Directory (XLSX) Webmaster Registration Form OLD Webmaster Self-Registration List (XLSX) Plone 4 HelpCenter Plone Webmaster Site list by IT 8-19-16 (XLSX) Slow Web Response Web Improvements Committees Timelines Workgroups Project Status & Updates Frequently Asked Questions Web ImprovementsWeb Improvements Dropdown Toggle Committees Timelines Workgroups Project Status & Updates Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Web Improvements Committees Timelines Workgroups Project Status & Updates Frequently Asked Questions Categories Project Involvement Other Project What is the timeline for the project? The project is split into three main phases, each with contingent, overlapping timelines. It is the hope of the committees that the campus community will begin seeing changes within the 2022 calendar year and extending for the next several academic cycles as content is reimagined. Back to the top Will all UofL websites be included? Eventually, yes. The massive overhaul is being split into multiple phases so it won’t all happen at once. There are several decades worth and hundreds of thousands of pieces of content involved in this, but ultimately this will transform all websites at UofL in differing capacities. Back to the top Is Plone going away? The Steering Committee and workgroups are currently identifying all requirements and investigating all options to fit the university’s needs. Once an environment that meets our needs is identified, the recommendation will be made to the Executive Committee on which CMS should replace it. Back to the top Who is in charge of the project? The Executive Committee is comprised of members of the President’s Office, Information Technology Services, Enrollment Management and Communications & Marketing. Back to the top How were the committees formed? In an effort to be good stewards of this project, the Executive Committee made the decision to keep the Steering Committee size to a respectable number, both for the benefit of conservation and efficiency of operation. This was a challenge, as we have a complex organization with many great people. This judiciousness is simply what is required to be successful, and the Executive Committee carefully selected representation at broad levels not necessarily to reflect the organization itself, but rather to advocate for the needs of the user groups of this new web system. Back to the top Does this project involve more than just websites? Potentially, yes. In order to complete the charge given by the Executive Committee, the Steering Committee must research and investigate all aspects of how we market, communicate and collaborate online. Doing this will undoubtedly uncover other systems, processes and tools that will need improvement in the coming years. Back to the top Involvement I’m new to UofL. How can I (or my office) get involved in this? In the coming months there will be ample opportunity for those who are interested and willing to contribute, whether by focus group involvement or contacting members of the Steering Committee to share your concerns and questions. We are intentionally being open and transparent about this process, asking campus to follow along (through the meeting videos, UofL Today updates, etc.), because we want to include everyone. It is sadly just not feasible to put everyone on campus in one room. Back to the top Other Will I have to rebuild my current website? The migration path of current content has not yet been identified. Since the places and ways that we communicate and share information online will be changing significantly, the Steering Committee will be giving great consideration to what happens to existing content. Be sure to stay tuned to UofL Today for updates or reach out to one of the committee members for the latest information. Back to the top We recently launched/redeveloped our site. Will we have to switch? Eventually, yes. However, due to the complexity and length of this project, that migration date may be further into the future than you may think. Once the committee has announced a migration timeline, units will have a better understanding of this process. Back to the top Our group never used Plone. Will we have to switch? Yes. One of the primary goals of the Web Improvement Project is to centralize the platforms which help create, distribute and promote valuable campus content. Not having all UofL entities in a central environment (e.g. a content management system) prohibits this and causes inefficiencies, inconsistent messaging to our audiences and unnecessary overhead. Back to the top Our website has a different address (.com, .org, etc.). Will we be affected? If your unit or group has a website that: Is funded with UofL money Is in direct support of the university’s mission Then regardless of domain extension, your site will be impacted by the decisions and standards put forth in this project. Specifics on this (e.g. continued use of non-.edu domains) will be announced at a later date. Back to the top © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville