[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Master's Degree Programs / Master of Science in Biostatistics /-/images/pages/msbst/OLWEB1904_MSBST_1596x740_1.png Become a statistician. msbst msbst-program-page organic ../../programs/masters/master-of-science-in-biostatistics?tab=apply Erin Elrod Online Enrollment Counselor Online Master of Science in Biostatistics The online Master of Science in Biostatistics (MSBST) is designed for professionals with a bachelor’s degree who aspire to start or advance their career in biostatistics, statistics or data science. Offered by the School of Public Health & Information Science at the University of Louisville, this program delivers a forward-thinking curriculum that emphasizes medical, dental, nursing and healthcare applications of statistical analysis, with applicability across countless other industries. Through state-of-the-art coursework in designing research studies and applying modern statistical analysis, you’ll be equipped with the expertise needed to meet the growing industry demand for skilled statisticians who can effectively drive evidence-based decisions. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Tuition and fees are subject to change at any time without prior notice. Highlights Learn rigorous statistical analysis methodology you can apply to any industry. Gain extensive training in statistical computing and data management in the SAS, SPSS and R statistical software programs. Join one of the very few comprehensive biostatistics programs in the nation. Learn from faculty with distinguished academic credentials and a strong commitment to applied research. Build upon your background—the program is open to individuals with a bachelor’s degree in any field with some exposure to quantitative background (see Apply Now tab for more details). Complete your degree in as few as 3 semesters. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this degree on your own time through fully online coursework and learning tools. Learn More 33 CREDIT HOURS Only 12 courses are required for graduation. Math Tools prep course also available in summer. Learn More 100% GRADUATE EMPLOYMENT RATE To-date, all graduates of the MSBST program at UofL have found employment in a biostatistics-related role "“Statisticians and individuals who are trained in quantitative methods are going to be the invisible force for doing an impeccable job to advance the [data] industry today " DR. KB KULASEKEERA PROGRAM DIRECTOR MASTER OF SCIENCE IN BIOSTATISTICS What can I do with a master’s in Biostatistics? Most employers currently require biostatisticians to have earned a master’s degree based on the Labor Insights’ 2020 data, which conveyed that 61.6% of U.S. employers’ biostatisticians job postings required advanced education. Furthermore, expected job growth for statisticians is an astonishing 33% for 2019-2029 (bls.gov). Our master’s is biostatistics opens the door to this booming industry and prepares you to provide statistical insights for the healthcare industry—the third largest employer of statisticians. Besides an astounding job outlook, biostatistics master’s graduates can also expect an increase in salary. BLS states the average salary in 2020 for a statistician was $93,290. Graduates of UofL’s online Master’s in Biostatistics program are prepared to pursue careers in organizations including but not limited to: Pharmaceutical corporations Medical researchers Insurers Government agencies (FDA, NIH, Census Bureau) Universities and research institutions Hospitals and cancer centers START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Application Deadline Term Start Date April 1 (International) Summer May April 15 Summer May July 1 (International) Fall August July 25 Fall August Note: Any application completed after the deadline is considered for admission for the next admission term. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Summer admission is only for student seeking provisional admission to the MS with the requirement to complete our Math Tools sequence in remedial calculus. Steps to Apply Complete graduate application Submit $65 non-refundable application fee Submit all official transcripts of graduate work in English from all previous institutions Check for Scholarships Note: Electronic transcripts are only accepted directly from the institution(s). Please have electronic transcripts sent directly to UofL Graduate Admissions Office. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree in any field from an accredited institution* Minimum undergraduate GPA of 3.0 to be admitted in good standing Mathematics coursework covering differential and integral calculus including multi-variable integration Minimum of two letters of recommendation written within the past twelve months Statement of purpose Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. Concerned you don’t have the required mathematics background? Don’t let that hold you back! Apply today and kick-off your program with our online Math Tools courses to prepare for the mathematical rigor necessary to complete the M.S. in Biostatistics degree. While completing your Math Tools courses, you can begin working toward your master’s by earning a Certificate in Biostatistics online. The certificate can be completed in tandem with the Math Tools courses (there is no quantitative requirement for the certificate program)—with all certificate credits applied toward your degree! International Students The Master’s in Biostatistics program is open to international students. If you live outside of the United States and intend to complete an online academic program from your home country, be sure to review these additional requirements for international students. All transcripts not in English must be certified as authentic and translated verbatim in English. A foreign credential evaluation may be required. View the FAQs for more information. Students whose primary language is not English must show English language proficiency by attaining one of the following: TOEFL score at or above 550 (paper based test and a 5.0 on the TWE test), 213 (computer based test), 79 (internet based test), OR Submitting an IELTS test score of 6.5 or higher, OR Duolingo English test score of 105 or higher Successful completion of the exit examination for the advanced level of the Intensive English as a Second Language Program (IESL) at the University of Louisville, OR Submitting an EFCMG (Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates) certification, OR Demonstration of a degree award from an acceptable English language institution International students will not be issued a U.S. visa, since there are no campus attendance requirements. All courses in the program are taught 100% online, allowing you to attain the entire degree from the comfort of your home and at any time convenient for you, regardless of your current location, anywhere in the world. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. The online M.S. in Biostats degree is a 33 credit hour program that requires 25 credit hours in core courses and 5 credit hours in electives. Core Courses Courses Hours PHST 661 Probability 3 PHST 680 Biostatistical Methods I 3 PHST 624 Clinical Trials I 2 PHST 523 Public Health in the U.S.1 3 PHST 662 Mathematical Statistics 3 PHST 681 Biostatistical Methods II 3 PHST 684 Categorical Data Analysis 3 PHST 625 Clinical Trials II 2 PHST 683 Survival Analysis 3 PHST 620 Introduction to Statistical Computing 3 Electives2 5 Total 33 PHST 523 fulfills the accreditation requirement that all graduates from the School of Public Health and Information Science receive foundational instruction in public health. Electives are chosen with the approval of a faculty advisor. Students are typically encouraged to select electives from among the following courses offered by the Department of Bioinformatics and Biostatistics: PHST 640 Statistical Methods for Research Design in Health Sciences PHST 682 Multivariate Statistics Students may also choose elective courses outside of the department in fields related to biostatistics, such as Mathematics, Epidemiology, and Computer Science (subject to approval from faculty advisor). Students are responsible for ensuring they have met the prerequisites for these courses. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Featured Faculty The set of questions and answers outlined below can help you learn more about our program, delivery method, application and admission process, financial aid options and how to succeed as an online student at UofL. Is there a specific undergraduate degree required for admission into the Master of Science in Biostatistics? No. Admission to the program requires an exposure to statistics -- preferably via a course at a sophomore level or above -- and a background in differential and integral calculus including multi-variable integration. Coursework in linear algebra could be required for some electives. Is the Graduate Records Exam (GRE) required for admission? No. However, if you have recently taken the GRE we encourage you to submit your scores to us. Also, if you feel as though your transcript doesn't adequately reflect your quantitative training and abilities, scores from the GRE quantitative test can be a helpful addition to an application. Is a foreign credential evaluation of transcripts from international institutions required? Yes, we require full credential evaluations for any degree earned outside of the USA. The University of Louisville recommends you have your credentials evaluated by World Education Service (WES) or Educational Credential Evaluators (ECE). What are the English language proficiency requirements for admission? Students must achieve a minimum score on the TOEFL exam (550 on the paper-based TOEFL, 213 on the computer-based TOEFL, 79 on the Internet-based TOEFL), a score of 6.5 or better on the IELTS examination, successful passing of an exit examination for the advanced level of an Intensive English as a Second Language Program, or demonstration of a degree awarded from an institution with instruction primarily in English, as formally documented by an appropriate institutional official. What type of information should be included in the statement of purpose? The statement of purpose should cover your background, experiences, and motivations and reason for undertaking graduate work in biostatistics. It is important that this statement describe both your strengths and weaknesses so that the admission committee can make an informed decision regarding admission. What are possible career outcomes? There is a very high demand for biostatistical training in many industrial sectors including the insurance, pharmaceutical, and chemical industries, as well as at research institutions and various government agencies (NIH, FDA, Census Bureau, Bureau of Labor Statistics etc.). Job growth data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics predict that there will be a 34% increase in the need for statisticians in the labor market from 2014-2024 (https://www.bls.gov/ooh/). Another study by McKinsey Global Institute predicts that the United States will need over 150,000 professionals with expertise in statistical methods by 2018 (www.mckinsey.com). Our graduates have secured employment at Humana, Google, UPS, NIH, Texas Children’s Hospital, and several other major employers in the United States. What are the advantages of an MS in Biostatistics over a Bachelor’s degree in statistics or mathematics? Graduates with Master’s degrees in Biostatistics tend to be more attractive to employers in the industrial market than graduates with Bachelor ’s degrees are and generally better compensated, too. The 2015 Salary Survey of Business, Industry, and Government Statisticians published by the American Statistical Survey shows that the median salary for an entry-level employee in industry with a Master’s degree in statistics, biostatistics, or mathematical statistics was $83,700 Can the MS degree be completed part-time? Yes. Our advisors work with part-time students to develop course plans for completion of the degree. Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link