Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ Patient Care/ Make an Appointment/ Parking & Directions Navigation Contact Us Parking & Directions Our Locations Quick Links Contact Information Emergency Dental Care Patient Care FAQs Our Locations Parking & Directions Online Bill Payment Patient Feedback Survey Parking & Directions Please arrive 5-10 minutes early to allow time for COVID-19 virus prescreening. You must wear a face mask. At this time, additional persons are limited to guardians only. Thank you. Visiting the School of Dentistry The School of Dentistry is located on the campus of the University of Louisville Health Sciences Center in downtown Louisville, which is part of the Louisville Medical Center complex. When visiting the School of Dentistry, please enter through the doorway located underneath the School of Dentistry awning near Muhammad Ali Blvd. Please reference the map and links below to view updated information related to parking and accessibility options: Patient Drop-Off/Pick-Up Metered Parking Garage Parking Disability Parking UofL Shuttle Service If you have questions prior to your visit, or upon arriving, please call 502-852-5096 or stop by the main information desk located directly inside the visitor entrance. We look forward to your visit! Parking and Shuttle Patient/Visitor Drop-Off The School of Dentistry allows for patient/visitor drop-off at the front entryway. If patient drop-off is desired, please enter by turning left from Muhammad Ali Blvd. or off Preston Street just before the Novak Center for Children's Health building turn left. Click here to view a map of the new vehicle entry location. Metered Parking Parking meters (short term) are located all around the School of Dentistry. Limited metered parking spaces are located on both Muhammad Ali and Preston Streets. Meters around the School of Dentistry are IPS meters and will accept credit cards. Please ensure that you have adequate time on the meter to avoid receiving a ticket. Use of parking meters is not recommended for long visits to the school. Click here to see the city's current meter policies and rates. Garage Parking Visitor/Patient pay parking is located inside the UofL Health Care Outpatient Center parking structure located at 414 E Chestnut St, Louisville, KY 40202. Following your appointment, please check with a patient service representative at the School of Dentistry front desk for a receipt that allows for $2 off the garage-parking fee - for Chestnut Street Garage only. NOT VALID AT UofL Hospital Garage. Disability Parking Limited parking is available near the School of Dentistry visitor entryway for guests with disabilities. Please be sure to have a decal on display, as you can be fined $200 if one is not present. If you are in need of wheel chair assistance, or other special accommodations, please call 502-852-5096 prior to your appointment. UofL Shuttle Service To better serve visitors to the School of Dentistry, the UofL shuttle will now make two additional stops as part of its regular route; one just to the left as you exit the first floor of the Chestnut St. Parking Garage and the second along Muhammad Ali Blvd. near the front entrance of the School of Dentistry. The UofL shuttle is free and runs approximately every 15 minutes. We hope this will assist in your visit to the school! To view shuttle stop locations, please see map above. Driving Directions For specific driving directions enter the locations below in your favorite online mobile app, or see generalized directions below. University of Louisville School of Dentistry For patient, 15 minute drop-off, enter from 452 E. Muhammad Ali Blvd.and turn left or enter from Preston Street just before the Novak Center for Children's Health and turn left into the School of Dentistry . Chestnut Street Parking Garage (Health Care Outpatient Center) 414 E Chestnut St, Louisville, KY 40202 From the South: 1. Take I-65 North to Exit 136A, Broadway/Chestnut Street. This ramp exits onto Brook Street. 2. Continue north on Brook Street for two blocks. 3. Turn right on East Chestnut Street. 4. Continue two blocks, parking garage is on the right (414 E Chestnut St). From the North: 1. Take I-65 South to Exit 136C, Jefferson Street Downtown. 2. Stay in the far left lane of the ramp for Brook Street. 3. Proceed to the second traffic light to East Market and turn right. 4. Go two blocks to South Preston Street and turn right. 5. Continue four blocks south on South Preston Street to reach East Chestnut Street. 6. Turn left on East Chestnut Street, parking garage is on the right (414 E Chestnut St). From the East or West: 1. Take I-64 or I-71 to I-65 South. 2. Follow the directions above. Quick Links Contact Information Emergency Dental Care Patient Care FAQs Our Locations Parking & Directions Online Bill Payment Patient Feedback Survey School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville