Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Ariana R. Levinson Professor of Law Room 285 +1-502-852-0794 a.levinson@louisville.edu Curriculum Vitae About Professor Ariana Levinson's scholarship and teaching focus on labor and employment law issues and practical legal skills. She was awarded a University Distinguished Teaching Award in Recognition of Exemplary Teaching in 2019. Students have made the following observations about Professor Levinson’s teaching: "Professor Levinson is one of the most amazing professors I have ever had the opportunity to experience ... Professor Levinson's effort, patience, attention to detail, and knowledge have made an unparalleled impact on me in the law school." "Professor Levinson is an amazing professor! I recommend her to everyone as one of the teachers you should always take in law school at least once!" "Professor Levinson is fun, interesting, and kind. She carefully makes sure we learn what we need to learn by laying out elements, giving us practical projects in class, and practical projects outside of class." "She is excellent. She utilizes a plethora of teaching methods that are both effective and engaging." "I love Professor Levinson. She is always one of my favorite professors. Not only is she clear, passionate, and knowledgeable, but I love how she doesn't take crap from anyone. She is really an inspiration to me as a female student, and I just admire her assertiveness and confidence." Professor Levinson is a fellow in the Rutgers School of Management & Labor Relations Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership & Profit Sharing. She has published five law review articles, and several news and policy briefs, about cooperatives. Her latest article about union co-ops, invited for the Perspectives Section, is forthcoming in the Employee Responsibilities & Rights Journal. Professor Levinson has also published five law review articles about labor arbitration and is a co-author of the West handbook Principles of Arbitration Law. In addition to writing about worker ownership and arbitration, Professor Levinson has also written a number of articles about workplace technology and has an article about geospatial data, co-authored with her research assistant, forthcoming in the ABA Journal of Labor & Employment Law. Recently, Professor Levinson is working with a team of clinical psychologists from the University of Ottawa to author several interdisciplinary articles about anti-racist jury selection. Professor Levinson is a member of the Scholars Strategy Network, KEJC’s Workers’ Rights Task Force, and the Louisville Association for Community Economics, and is the faculty liaison to the Peggy Browning Fund. She is the faculty advisor for the mock arbitration team and the Wagner moot court team. Professor Levinson is admitted to practice in Indiana and California. Prior to teaching at Brandeis School of Law, Professor Levinson taught at USC Gould School of Law and at UCLA School of Law. She clerked for the Honorable John G. Davies (United States District Court, Central District of California) and for the Honorable Myra C. Selby (Supreme Court of Indiana) and practiced labor law, including serving as a fellow for the AFL-CIO's Legal Department. She graduated magna cum laude from the University of Michigan Law School. During law school, she served as a contributing editor on the Michigan Law Review and was awarded the Robert S. Feldman Labor Law Award for the most outstanding work in that field. She has also received a faculty favorite award from the University of Louisville Delphi Center for Teaching and Learning multiple times. Education J.D., University of Michigan Law School B.A., University of Michigan Courses Taught Advanced Issues in Labor and Employment Law Arbitration Practice & Procedure Basic Legal Skills Decedents' Estates Dispute Resolution Employment Law Evidence Labor Law Areas of Expertise Employment Law Courts and the Judiciary Lawyering Skills Recent Publications Scholarship Representative Publications [Title], Vol. # [Periodical Name] Pg. # (Year). [Title], Vol. # [Periodical Name] Pg. # (Year). [Title], Vol. # [Periodical Name] Pg. # (Year). [Title], Vol. # [Periodical Name] Pg. # (Year). © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville