Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Human Resources Navigation Home Benefits Medical Coverage Dental Vision Life Tuition Remission Retirement Additional Benefits Types of Leave Flexible Spending Pharmacy Long Term Disability Short Term Disability Benefits Definitions Benefits Specialists COBRA Optum BenefitsBenefits Dropdown Toggle Medical Coverage Dental Vision Life Tuition Remission Retirement Additional Benefits Types of Leave Flexible Spending Pharmacy Long Term Disability Short Term Disability Benefits Definitions Benefits Specialists COBRA Optum Compensation Compensation and Total Rewards Study Job Description Instructions Compensation Analysts UofL Compensation & Benefits Survey FAQs Compensation & Total Rewards Study Timeline Compensation & Benefits Employee Input Survey CompensationCompensation Dropdown Toggle Compensation and Total Rewards Study Job Description Instructions Compensation Analysts UofL Compensation & Benefits Survey FAQs Compensation & Total Rewards Study Timeline Compensation & Benefits Employee Input Survey Employment Jobs at UofL New Employee Onboarding Manager Resources Employment Verification HR Business Partners Exit Surveys Contact Employment EmploymentEmployment Dropdown Toggle Jobs at UofL New Employee Onboarding Manager Resources Employment Verification HR Business Partners Exit Surveys Contact Employment Employee Relations Campus Accessibility Page Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Formal ADA Complaint Procedure Improvement Plans Unemployment Compensation Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Requirements and Procedures EEO/Affirmative Action Grievances Performance Evaluation Labor Law Posters Certification of Completion - Title IX Certification of Completion - Discriminatory Harassment COVID-19 Unemployment FAQs Kentucky Unemployment Fraud Information Workday Employee RelationsEmployee Relations Dropdown Toggle Campus Accessibility Page Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Formal ADA Complaint Procedure Improvement Plans Unemployment Compensation Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Requirements and Procedures EEO/Affirmative Action Grievances Performance Evaluation Labor Law Posters Certification of Completion - Title IX Certification of Completion - Discriminatory Harassment COVID-19 Unemployment FAQs Kentucky Unemployment Fraud Information Workday Get Healthy Now Employee Success Center Policies The University of Louisville Policy Statement as a Drug-Free Institution Definitions PoliciesPolicies Dropdown Toggle The University of Louisville Policy Statement as a Drug-Free Institution Definitions Forms Contact Us HRtalks and HRlistens Employee Resources Benefits Design Workgroup UofL Event Calendar Employee ResourcesEmployee Resources Dropdown Toggle Benefits Design Workgroup UofL Event Calendar Workday Home / Benefits / Life Life Insurance MetLife Group Life Insurance administers the University of Louisville's life insurance benefit. Life insurance helps protect your family's standard of living, avoids leaving debt behind and provides security for years to come. If eligible (see eligibility requirements below), you are automatically enrolled in Basic Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Insurance at no cost to you. The Basic Life Insurance Benefit is two times your annual salary up to a $200,000 maximum. For an additional cost, employees may purchase Supplemental Life and Dependent Life Insurance. View 2022 Life Insurance Rates. Eligibility Requirements Active employee must be full-time (regular status, 80% or greater) or part-time (regular status, 40%-79%). If you elect dependent and/or spouse/qualifying adult coverage, you will be required to complete a Statement of Health. Supplemental Life Insurance The Supplemental Life portion of the plan provides additional protection for those who count on you financially. The need for level of coverage may vary depending on your financial situation, age, dependents, and your dependents age. Benefit options are available in various increments with the minimum benefit amount as $20,000 and the maximum benefit amount as $300,000. If you are currently enrolled in Supplemental Life, you may increase your coverage by one level without a Statement of Health. Any additional level of coverage will require a Statement of Health. If you are not currently enrolled in Supplemental Life, you may elect additional coverage during open enrollment. Regardless of level of coverage, a Statement of Health will be required. If you elect dependent and/or Spouse/Qualifying Adult coverage during Open Enrollment, you will be required to complete a Statement of Health. If you elect Supplemental Life requiring a Statement of Health, MetLife will mail a Statement of Health Enrollment Form to you after the close of open enrollment. If your coverage election requires a Statement of Health, coverage will not be effective until MetLife has approved. Dependent Spouse / Qualifying Adult Life Insurance If you are currently enrolled or newly enrolling in Supplemental Life, you may add a Spouse/Qualifying Adult for additional life insurance. Benefit options are available in level increments of $5,000 with the minimum benefit amount as $10,000 and the maximum benefit amount as the lesser of 50% of the employee Supplemental Life Benefit or a $25,000 maximum benefit. Regardless of level of coverage, a Statement of Health will be required by MetLife Group Life Insurance. No person may be insured as a Dependent of more than one employee. Dependent Child Life Insurance Eligibility For your child to be eligible for coverage, your child must: Be 14 days to 1 year old for $500 or 1 year old up to 18 years for $10,000 19-26 years only if a full-time student for $10,000 *Children NOT eligible for coverage: No person can be insured as a dependent of more than one employee Children over the age of 18 that are not a full-time student Over 26 years (even if full time student) are not eligible for coverage *It is the employee’s responsibility to contact the Benefits Team when their child is no longer a full-time student or eligible for child life insurance. Failure to contact the Benefits Team may result in your account being charged without actual coverage. Accelerated Benefit Option (ABO) If you become terminally ill due to an injury or sickness, you or your legal representative have the option to request an ABO. For Basic Life Insurance, the ABO disbursement is up to 80% of the Basic Life amount not to exceed $160,000. For Supplemental Life Insurance, the ABO disbursement is up to 80% of the Supplemental Life amount not to exceed $240,000. Additional Services Estate Planning & Resolution If you are insured for Supplemental Life Insurance coverage, the following Estate Resolution Services are provided at no additional cost. Will Preparation If you are insured for Supplemental Life Insurance a Will Preparation Service is available to you, through a MetLife affiliate at no cost to you. It enables you to have a will prepared for you and your spouse/Qualifying Adult by attorneys designated by the Affiliate. If you have a will prepared by an attorney not designated by the Affiliate, you must pay attorney's services directly. Upon proof of payment, you will be reimbursed in an amount equal to the lesser of the amount customarily reimbursed for such services by the Affiliate. Will Preparation Service Willscenter.com Probate Services If you are insured for Supplemental Life Insurance and die while coverage is in effect, a probate benefit will be available to your estate, through a MetLife affiliate. Certain probate services are available, fee of no charge by attorneys designated by the Affiliate. If probate services are provided by an attorney not designated by the Affiliate, your estate must pay attorney services directly. Upon proof of payment, your estate will be reimbursed in an amount equal to the lesser of the amount customarily reimbursed for such services by the Affiliate. Grief Counseling To help you, your dependents, and your beneficiaries cope with loss You, your dependents, and your beneficiaries have access to grief counseling1 sessions and funeral related concierge services to help cope with a loss — at no extra cost. Grief counseling services provide confidential and professional support during a difficult time to help address personal and funeral planning needs. At your time of need, you and your dependents have 24/7 access to a work/life counselor. You simply call a dedicated 24/7 toll-free number to speak with a licensed professional experienced in helping individuals who have suffered a loss. Sessions can either take place in-person or by phone. You can have up to five face-to-face grief counseling sessions per event to discuss any situation you perceive as a major loss, including but not limited to death, bankruptcy, divorce, terminal illness, or losing a pet.1 In addition, you have access to funeral assistance for locating funeral homes and cemetery options, obtaining funeral cost estimates and comparisons, and more. You can access these services by calling 1-888-319-7819 or log on to www.metlifegc.lifeworks.com (Username: metlifeassist; Password: support). Grief Counseling Funeral Planning Ensuring your final wishes are honored As a MetLife group life policyholder, you and your family may have access to funeral discounts, planning and support to help honor a loved one’s life — at no additional cost to you. Dignity Memorial provides you and your loved ones access to discounts of up to 10% off of funeral, cremation and cemetery services through the largest network of funeral homes and cemeteries in the United States. When using a Dignity Memorial Network you have access to convenient planning services — either online at www.finalwishesplanning.com, by phone (1-866-853-0954), or by paper — to help make final wishes easier to manage.You also have access to assistance from compassionate funeral planning experts to help guide you. Download this helpful Funeral Planning Guide at https://www.metlife.com/funeralplanning/funeral-guide/. Additional Resources Life Insurance Definitions & FAQ Review our Life Insurance FAQ webpage to learn more about definitions and other questions related to Life Insurance. Taxable Income Current federal tax law permits employees to exclude from taxable gross income the University's cost of providing the first $50,000 of group-term life insurance coverage. However, the value of university-provided group life insurance in excess of $50,000 is treated as taxable (imputed) income. The taxable cost of this group term life insurance is computed on the basis of uniform premium rates determined by the Internal Revenue Service based on the employee's age. Travel Assistance MetLife selected AXA Assistance USA, Inc. to be the administrator for Travel Assistance services. This service helps intervene in medical emergencies in foreign countries. In addition, AXA administers assistance services when a covered employee or dependent becomes ill or injured while traveling 100 miles or more away from home. Travel Assistance Services Plan Documents MetLife Active Employee Certificate of Coverage MetLife Retiree Certificate of Coverage Certificate Rider (update effective May 1, 2020) Policy Endorsement (update effective May 1, 2020) MetLife Group Life Insurance Contact Information Mailing: Metropolitan Life Insurance Company - Group Life Claims PO Box 6100 Scranton, PA 18505-6100 Phone: 1-800-638-6420 Benefits Medical Prescription Drugs Dental Vision Life Insurance Flexible Spending Accounts Health Reimbursement Accounts Short-term Disability Long-term Disability Retirement Education Benefits Qualifying Life Events Time Off Wellness Leaving the University Other Benefits Benefit Forms Contact Benefits © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville