[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Bachelor's Degree Programs / Online Bachelor of Science in Psychology /-/images/pages/bapsy/2010_BAPSY_1596x740.jpg Study the human condition. bapsy bapsy-program-page organic ../../programs/master-of-education-in-special-education?tab=apply Chester Morton Online Enrollment Counselor Online Bachelor of Science in Psychology The online Bachelor of Science in Psychology is designed for working professionals who want to understand how the various facets of human psychology impact everyday decision making. Offered by the College of Arts & Sciences at the University of Louisville, the bachelor’s in psychology degree focuses on psychological concepts ranging from brain-behavior relationships to abnormal psychology, cognition, mental health and human development. By blending the study of these ideas with important research methods, this degree equips you with a practical understanding of how to effectively appreciate and influence human behavior in various settings throughout the marketplace—and make a difference in the lives of others. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Highlights Become an intelligent consumer of information and an active investigator within the fields of cognition, behavior and brain science. Develop technological skills and familiarity with research methods and statistics, as well as the analytic skills necessary for solving personal, professional and societal problems. Build a versatile set of skill and knowledge, for which employers around the country actively recruit. Earn a research-based psychology degree taught by the same research-focused faculty within the Department of Psychology as the on-campus program. Build upon your associate degree or transfer in equivalent credit from other regionally-accredited institutions. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this degree on your time through fully online classes. Learn More 121 CREDIT HOURS Transfer in previous credit or take general education and major core courses at UofL. Learn More $508 PER CREDIT HOUR Take advantage of UofL’s military-friendly rate of $250 per credit hour (for active duty). "Psychology is relevant for almost everything. It’s relevant for business, it’s relevant for nursing, it’s relevant for healthcare and mental healthcare… But it’s also really relevant in non-profits and in dealing with special populations and social issues." LORA HAYNES, PH.D.ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR PSYCHOLOGY AND BRAIN SCIENCES What can I do with a bachelor’s in psychology? Earning a psychology degree prepares you for a wide variety of career opportunities. According to the National Association of Colleges and Employers, hiring managers seek employees with leadership, teamwork, communication, and problem-solving abilities, above all others. This program equips you with robust critical thinking and research skills and combines with an understanding of foundational psychological concepts, to make you succeed and stand out in the career path of your choice. Many bachelor’s in psychology graduates pursue careers as a Substance Abuse, Behavioral Disorder, and Mental Health Counselor, which according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the demand is expected to grow an astounding 25% (bls.gov, 2019-2029). Many graduates also pursue careers in the following fields: Human resources Mental Health Market research Public relations Family advocacy and support Case management Counseling Non-profit organizations Forensics Rehabilitation This degree can be a stepping stone for pursuing a career as a psychologist. According to BLS, the average salary is $82,180 (bls.gov). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May/June Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete undergraduate application Submit $25 non-refundable application fee Submit official transcripts from all institutions previously attended Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements To be admitted to UofL, applicants must meet the following: Graduation from an accredited high school GED or equivalent by petition (e.g., home school education) Grade Point Average of 2.5 or higher Composite ACT score of 20 or higher Completion of pre-college curriculum To be admitted to the B.S. in Psychology, applicants must have completed 30 hours of degree-applicable credit with a minimum GPA of 2.0, and have completed the following prerequisite courses: Psychology 201 with a minimum grade of C Psychology 301 or an approved substitute with a minimum grade of C Psychology 302 with a minimum grade of C Completion of General Education QR course with a minimum grade of C Transfer Credit Students may transfer up to 60 hours from a community college and up to 90 hours from an accredited 4-year college. Transfer applicants must have a minimum college GPA of 2.5 to be admitted in good standing. Complete the credit transfer pre-evaluation to get an idea of how many credits you'll be able to transfer in toward your UofL bachelor's degree, and visit our General Transfer Student page for more details. Are you a KCTCS student? KCTCS students can transfer completed associate degrees in their entirety and begin immediately with online upper level coursework at UofL. Visit our KCTCS Transfers Page for more information. See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. Start Your Application The online bachelor’s in psychology from UofL is a 121 credit hour program that follows the degree requirements of the College of Arts and Sciences: General Education requirements (31 credit hours) Arts & Sciences programmatic requirements (22 credit hours) Core psychology courses and electives (68 credit hours) Arts & Sciences Programmatic Requirements Courses Hours General 101: A&S Orientation 1 Foreign Language (completion of the second semester of a single foreign language; hours will vary depending on language taken) 6-8 Electives in Humanities or Natural Sciences at 300 level or above (in addition to courses counted toward General Education) 9 WR - 2 approved courses at the 300 level or above (may be incorporated into other degree requirements) 6 Total 13-15 Core Program Courses Courses Hours PSYC 201 Introduction to Psychology* 3 PSYC 301 Statistics for Psychology 3 PSYC 302 Research Methods for Psychology 3 PSYC 305 Brain and Behavior 3 PSYC 306 Life Span Developmental Psychology 3 PSYC 307 Cognitive Processes 3 PSYC 308 Abnormal Psychology 3 CUE (may include WR) 3 PSYC Electives (300 level or higher)* 18 Total 42 Electives Courses Courses Hours 300+ Social or Natural Sciences Electives 12 Minimum Electives 17 Total 29 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Core Course Descriptions FACULTY Visit the department website to see a list of UofL’s psychology faculty. Overview Outcomes Admissions COURSES TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link