Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Discover Home Campus Life Academic Opportunities Take Flight Visit Transfer Secure Your Spot Out of State Out of State - Fall Living Learning Communities Work at UofL KentuckyOne My City My School Almost to the finish line hereandbeyond2020 Global Benefits at UofL Strategic Plan Home / Global Global Unleash Your Potential at UofL The University of Louisville empowers our students to change the world by offering personalized learning experiences and providing the resources needed to forge your path to success. With 12 schools and colleges, more than 200 degree programs and globally focused programs and services with civic, cultural and social engagement opportunities, you’ll have the flexibility to discover your future at UofL. Apply Now Our Global Footprint The University of Louisville has been designated as a “Research 1” doctoral university with “very high research activity” by the Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher Education. UofL offers more internships, practicums, and co-ops for students to gain real-world career experience, giving students a competitive advantage in the global job market. At UofL, you will join over 1000 international students and scholars from over 80 countries. College Choice recently ranked UofL the 20th safest large university in the country. Living and learning together, undergraduate residents of the Global Village aim to expand their worldview, hone their intercultural skills, and build relationships within a multicultural, multinational, and multidisciplinary community. Resources Admissions Campus Life International Student & Scholar Services Learn more about Louisville Next Stop: You Decide Your education journey isn’t limited to Kentucky, and with myriad internships, practicums, and co-ops available locally and regionally for students to gain real-world career experience, you’ll have the chance to gain a competitive advantage in the global job market from Louisville and beyond. UofL is centrally located with many major cities just a few hours away. You can jump in the car to explore a new city or fly to the Big Apple for a weekend. With UofL as your starting point, you can easily chart your own path to success, wherever it may lead. Check out these cities in close proximity to UofL. Discover what UofL has to offer Academic Programs Athletics City of Louisville Fulbrights ISLP Study Abroad From a Student's Perspective “SPHIS shaped both my academic and professional career. Choosing SPHIS to follow my doctoral education was one of the best choices I ever made in my life.” Dr. Chathura Siriwardhana Biostatistics Sri Lanka “Analytics is the future of accounting/auditing field. I wanted more up to date and in demand technology and skills. During my internship at Humana on the financial budgeting and forecasting team I was as close to analytics within financial accounting as it gets.” Jiao Wang MSBA China "While being born and raised in Wetzlar, Germany, I have worked with the RSV Lahn-Dill (international wheelchair basketball team), as well as Lufthansa Technik and Innova Market Insights. My main research areas focus on establishing and maintaining sport partnerships in parasports and also developing successful adaptive sports programs." Nina Siegfried Sport Administration Germany “What I noticed early on was that everyone were so nice and you got the feeling that they genuinely cared about you as an individual from the very beginning. I learned to love the city as my own, and that's why I am now in the lookout for jobs in the city in order to stay.” Fredrik Moe Finance Norway "Moving away from home was quite daunting for me, but Louisville felt like my second home right from the beginning. Every time I return home to Ireland , it reminds me of how much I love the city of Louisville and it’s people! There is always something to do whether it’s visiting cool food places or attending sporting events. I am happy to say that Louisville is my second home.” Mairead Martin Sociology Ireland More Information on admissions requirement, virtual recruitment events, and contacting an international admissions recruiter. Our rankings International Student & Scholar Services University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40208 (502) 852-6604 isss@louisville.edu International Center Brodschi Hall Louisville, KY 40208 Quick Links Take a Virtual Tour UofL News © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville