Skip to main content louisville.edu My Accounts email ulink peoplesoft hr peoplesoft campus solutions peoplesoft financials blackboard business ops cardsmart cardbox cards career connection Plone APPLY Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning DONATE CAMPUSES Belknap HSC Online Search All Sites This Site Search Parameters Search UofL Go Information Technology Services (ITS) Home Get Help Report IssueSelf ServiceChatCall UsRemote Session1:1 Assistance Email Log-inOffice 365 HelpPasswordsSpam Phish Malware Wireless Wireless InfoReport IssueCampus Housing Wi-Fi Tech Support Classroom SupportDesktop & DevicesHelpDesk1:1 Assistance Remote Work Report / Request Report IssueSelf ServiceULServicesNetworkPhones System Status ULink ulink-upgrade-imagesulink-upgrade-filesStudent ULink UpgradeEmployee Faculty ULink Upgrade Adobe Support About Us About ITS Home About Us About ITS About ITS About ITS All Services Staff Listing Security Network Wireless VPN Phones Accounts Leadership The Vice President and Chief Information Officer (CIO) oversees ITS with the assistance of two leadership groups. Our Executive Leadership team consists of those individuals that report directly to the CIO. Our Senior Leadership team additionally combines those that direct the units and support staff who provide technology services across the University of Louisville. ORG CHART CIO NEWS Governance The CIO and leadership teams set the strategic direction for the organization with the counsel of our university ITS governance committees. These groups include, but are not limited to, faculty, fiscal officers, lead administrators and our technology partners. We appreciate the work these committees do to identify and recommend the innovative and comprehensive technologies the university needs. Policies We work closely with the Information Security Office to ensure the integrity of UofL’s technology and digital assets. Official technology policies and procedures are available in the University’s Policy and Procedure Library. Specific policies related to encryption, computing devices, security incidents and passwords are most frequently requested. Jobs Interested in working for Information Technology Services? Look for our current openings and position postings on UofL’s HR website. Full Listing of Our Services Let us help you find that ITS resource you are looking for with our full listing. Our A-Z index even includes links for other technology options and services. If you can’t find what you’re looking for, please contact the ITS HelpDesk online or 502.852.7997. Copyright In accordance with 17 U.S.C. Section 512 (c)(2) ("DMCA"), the University of Louisville has registered with the U.S. Copyright Oce an agent to receive and investigate notification of claimed copyright infringement that conforms with the requirements of 17 U.S.C. Section 512 (c)(3). Please contact the University's DMCA designated agent to report copyright infringement involving material residing on a system or network controlled or operated by the University of Louisville. University of Louisville University Counsel, Grawemeyer Hall 2301 South Third Street Louisville, KY 40208 Phone: 502.852.6981 Email: DMCAGENT@louisville.edu See Title I7, Section 512(c) and Copyright Law of the United States for more information. University of Louisville's Compliance with the Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA) Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Requirements The University of Louisville is committed to sharing extensive knowledge and information. The University is also committed to taking steps to protecting our technology resources from misuse, including violations of the federal Copyright laws. All students, faculty, and staff should understand and abide by these laws. One of these laws is the Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA) , H.R. 4137, that was signed into federal law in August 2008 and went into effect on July 1, 2010. It includes provisions that are designed to reduce the illegal uploading and downloading of copyrighted works through peer-to-peer (P2P) file sharing. They include requirements that: Institutions make annual disclosure that informs students that illegal distribution of copyrighted materials may subject them to criminal and civil penalties and describes the steps the institution will take to detect and punish illegal distribution of copyrighted materials. Institutions certify to the Secretary of Education that they have developed plans to effectively combat the illegal distribution of copyrighted materials. Institutions to the extent practicable offer alternatives to illegal file sharing. Institutions identify practices for periodically reviewing the effectiveness of the plans to combat the unauthorized distribution of copyrighted materials. Annual Disclosure Keeping in line with our education mission, we view education as an important tool in combating illegal downloading and sharing of illegal copyrighted materials. We use a wide variety of methods to inform the community of the laws and consequences of illegal downloads and UofL's response to copyright infringement claims: All users of UofL's computing and technology resources must endorse all policies and standards surrounding appropriate use. Two of these policies include requirements for copyright compliance, acceptable use and intellectual property. Annual disclosure to all account holders will be posted on UofL Today. Additionally, students will receive a direct email regarding copyright infringement issues at the beginning of Fall and Spring semester each academic year. ABOUT US TECH SUPPORT CONTACT US TWITTER INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES (ITS) Miller Information Technology Center, Room 109 University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 OFFICE HOURS M-F: 8:00 am to 5:00 pm No holiday hours. PHONE 502.852.6621 © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login email ulink peoplesoft hr peoplesoft campus solutions peoplesoft financials blackboard business ops cardsmart cardbox cards career connection Plone © University of Louisville