[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Horse Racing Industry Business Certificate /-/images/pages/hrib/OL2102WEB_HRIB_HEADER_1596x740.jpg Bet on your business career hrib hrib-program-page organic ../../programs/certificate-programs/online-horse-racing-industry-business-certificate?tab=apply Veronica Johnson Online Enrollment Counselor Online Horse Racing Industry Business Certificate UofL’s online certificate in Horse Racing is designed for current and aspiring industry professionals who are focused on building a successful career within the horse racing industry. Develop the overall knowledge and skills essential for your success in the business of horse racing from a university located in the heart of the world’s most famous horse race, the Kentucky Derby. The City of Louisville has a century-long love affair with the horse racing industry and embraces that connection in its arts, restaurants, museums, shops, and educational opportunities. Collaborative efforts between UofL’s College of Business Equine Industry Program and horse racing industry specialists led to the creation of a uniquely tailored curriculum that addresses the most pressing issues facing the industry. Faculty expertise along with industry professionals will provide students a broad-based knowledge in the areas of crisis management planning, business ethics, sports and wagering analytics, leadership strategy, regulations, and industry nuances. The flexible, 100% online format allows you to better balance work, life, and education. This certificate is applicable to professionals currently working or aspiring to work at the race track, as well as all stakeholders supporting the industry's infrastructure. Graduates will be highly competitive for jobs and will ultimately accelerate the success of their career. The online Horse Racing Industry Business Certificate is offered by the College of Business at the University of Louisville. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid This certificate is not available for federal financial aid. Highlights Gain functional knowledge of horse racing operations, marketing, law, communications, analytics, and leadership. Acquire expertise and marketable skills fashioned for the horse racing industry. Learn at your speed, on your schedule—100% online format with access anywhere, anytime, and on any device. Experience an enhanced online learning environment with class segments taught by corporate fellows, integrated case studies, and guest speakers. Connect and network with other professionals from across the industry. Get a jump start on your MBA—credits earned in the certificate program apply to your UofL MBA, offered online and on-campus (you must apply separately to the MBA). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSEWORK No matter where you are in the world, learn the industry from a university located down the road from the Kentucky Derby. Learn More 6 COURSES The certificate program is made up of only 6 courses (9 credit hours), taken 1-3 at a time. Learn More 2 SEMESTER PROGRAM Complete your certificate in just 2 semesters. Learn More "The Horse Racing Industry Business Certificate is a unique educational offering that has been deliberately developed to meet the needs of the industry. Conversations with industry leaders indicate there is a desperate need for qualified upper-level management, and our curriculum is designed to meet that demand. Further, the online format allows us to provide this important business education to those already working in the horse racing or equine industries, as well as those outside the Louisville area, with the flexibility to complete coursework whenever it is convenient to them." TODD MOORADIAN, PH.D. DEAN, COLLEGE OF BUSINESS Fast-paced and global in scope, the horse racing industry's complexities and challenges define the need for leaders who meld innovation, technology, and character into a strategy for the future. UofL's online Horse Racing Industry Business Certificate was developed to immerse students into the horse racing industry through business strategies that focus on innovative approaches to managing business operations. The curriculum was created using input from numerous focus groups, comprised of industry leaders from a wide variety of stakeholders involved in horse racing. Students participating in this program will graduate with an in-depth knowledge of the issues that challenge the industry and insight into solving them with innovative business approaches. This certificate provides students with the knowledge and understanding necessary to manage business operations in the horse racing industry. The curriculum focuses on the increasingly important area of issues and crisis management, communication, business ethics and responsibility, management, leadership, operations, racinos, racetrack and sports analytics, as well as legal and regulatory issues. Graduates will have the education they need to advance their career in horse racing management positions. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Application Deadline Term Start Date August 7 Summer August 22 September 12 Fall I September 26 October 17 Fall II October 31 November 24 Fall III December 8 Admission Requirements Completed online application $40 application fee Bachelor's degree from a regionally-accredited college or university Official transcript(s) certifying the undergraduate degree Minimum cumulative undergraduate GPA of 2.5 (on a 4.0 scale) Note: GMAT/GRE scores are not required for admission to the online Horse Racing Certificate program. Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. The online Horse Racing Industry Business Certificate consists of 6 courses (9 hours), delivered in 5-week terms. Courses do not have to follow sequential order. The Horse Racing Industry Business certificate curriculum was designed in close partnership with industry experts to ensure the curriculum meets current business needs. Industry professionals have been involved in identifying industry needs, building the preliminary curriculum, and refining the final curriculum. Courses Hours EQIN 610 Horse Racing Industry Overview 1.5 EQIN 620 Strategic Communications for the Equine Industry 1.5 EQIN 630 Management and Leadership of Equine Enterprises 1.5 EQIN 640 Racetrack Operations and Related Activities 1.5 EQIN 650 Equine and Sports Analytics 1.5 EQIN 660 Regulatory Law in the Thoroughbred Industry 1.5 Total Credit Hours 9 Course Descriptions FEATURED FACULTY & INDUSTRY EXPERTS Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link