Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Louis D. Brandeis School of Law Navigation Home About Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations Admissions How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Diversity & Inclusion Part-Time Schedule Viewbook Admissions FAQ Connect with Us Admitted Students AdmissionsAdmissions Dropdown Toggle How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Diversity & Inclusion Part-Time Schedule Viewbook Admissions FAQ Connect with Us Admitted Students Academics Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars AcademicsAcademics Dropdown Toggle Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars Careers Staff Policies Employment Statistics For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Greenebaum Public Service Program CareersCareers Dropdown Toggle Staff Policies Employment Statistics For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Greenebaum Public Service Program Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Areas of Expertise Staff Directory Faculty Speaker Series Faculty & StaffFaculty & Staff Dropdown Toggle Faculty Directory Areas of Expertise Staff Directory Faculty Speaker Series Alumni & Giving Alumni News Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Give to Brandeis Adjunct/Part-Time Faculty Statement of Interest Request a Transcript Alumni & GivingAlumni & Giving Dropdown Toggle Alumni News Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Give to Brandeis Adjunct/Part-Time Faculty Statement of Interest Request a Transcript Student Experiences Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Student Life Student Organizations and Publications International Opportunities Public Service Student Fellowships Brandeis Mentor Program Externships Student ExperiencesStudent Experiences Dropdown Toggle Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Student Life Student Organizations and Publications International Opportunities Public Service Student Fellowships Brandeis Mentor Program Externships Academics Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars Home / Academics Academics The University of Louisville Louis D. Brandeis School of Law is fully accredited by the American Bar Association and is a member of the Association of American Law Schools. The J.D. program requires the completion of 90 semester hours, which can be completed on either a full-time or part-time basis. The full-time program is a three-year course of study for students who are able to devote virtually all of their time to the study of law. The part-time program is designed to meet the needs of students who have outside obligations and is generally completed in four or five years. Students may switch from part-time to the full-time program after completing their first semester of study. Students must maintain a cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.0 to remain in good academic standing. The Brandeis School of Law also offers eight dual degree programs; clinics, externships and skills certificates; and study abroad opportunities. The school has a heavy focus on public service for additional hands-on education, and offers an Academic Success Program to assist students in developing and enhancing the critical skills necessary to succeed on campus and beyond. The program of study at the University of Louisville Brandeis School of Law prepares graduates to: Build upon a solid understanding of core legal principles of substantive and procedural law, as required by state bar examinations, including the Kentucky Bar Exam, and for entry-level practice in a variety of settings. Analyze client problems, in the realm of law or policy, by identifying and articulating legal issues, factual issues, and governing law, and performing a sound a focused legal analysis and resolution of issues presented. Use a variety of written and oral communication strategies central to lawyering in the litigation and transactional context. Conduct legal research as needed to advise or advocate on behalf of clients. Interview and counsel clients in a range of practice settings and across a range of substantive fields, using problem-solving strategies when appropriate. Recognize and assume proper professional and ethical responsibilities to clients and the legal system. Demonstrate commitment to professional formation involving lifelong, self-directed careers in law. Understand legal issues from diverse perspectives. Academics Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars News Honoring the 2022 Law Alumni Award winners May 02, 2022 2021-2022 SBA leaders offer perspectives on roles, future, goals Dec 13, 2021 Lars Smith named interim dean of Louisville Law Jul 29, 2021 Professor Jamie Abrams, School of Dentistry faculty, honored by Blackboard for innovative teaching Jul 20, 2021 The legal significance of Juneteenth Jun 17, 2021 More news… Louis D. Brandeis School of Law University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 Google Map Office Hours M-F, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. No holiday hours Contact tel +1-502-852-6358 fax +1-502-852-7299 Admissions: lawadmissions@louisville.edu General: brandeislaw@louisville.edu Quick Links Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Apply Now Give to Brandeis Law Clinic Intranet Symplicity Job Bank Social Media © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville