No images? Click here January 10, 2022 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews IMPORTANT INFORMATION Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) FERPA affords students certain rights with respect to their education records and requires institutions to annually notify students of certain rights. These rights include: 1. The right to inspect and review the student's education records (with certain limited exceptions) within 45 days of the day the University receives a request for access. 2. The right to request the amendment of the student's education records that the student believes to be inaccurate, misleading or in violation of the student’s privacy rights under FERPA. 3. The right to consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information contained in the student's education records, except to the extent that FERPA authorizes disclosure without consent. Some of the exceptions authorized by the law include disclosures to “school officials” with “legitimate educational interests” and disclosures to protect the health or safety of the student or other person. Another exception to FERPA permits UofL to release “Directory Information” which includes the following: name, postal and email address, phone number, date and (month and day only) place of birth, major fields of study, classification (freshman sophomore etc.), enrollment status (full-time or part-time), enrollment unit (A&S Music Kent School etc.), residency status, participation in officially recognized activities & sports, weight and height of athletic team members, dates of attendance, degrees and awards received, and most recent previous educational agency or institution attended. Student may request UofL to withhold all directory information. 4. Students have the right to file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education concerning alleged failures to comply with the requirements of FERPA. Complaints can be filed with the office that administers FERPA at: Family Policy Compliance Office U.S. Department of Education 400 Maryland Avenue SW Washington, DC 20202-4605 Additional FERPA information can be found at https://louisville.edu/counsel Applications due February 11 for University Student Conduct Hearing Council The University Student Conduct Hearing Council provides an opportunity for students to serve the University community, develop life-long skills in facilitating and resolving conflicts, critical thinking, assertiveness, empathic listening, moral and ethical decision making, and promote civility and citizenship within the University of Louisville community. Are you interested in serving on the University Student Conduct Hearing Council? If so, make sure to fill out the online application. Applications are due February 11, 2022 at midnight. louisville.edu/dos/forms/hearingcouncil HOURS OF OPERATION SRC hours of operation The SRC is operating under the following schedule. All students are automatically members of the facility. Please remember to bring your UL ID with you for entrance. Mon–Thurs 6:30 AM to 11 PM, Friday 6:30 AM to 10 PM, Saturday 11 AM 7 PM & Sunday 1 PM to 9 PM. louisville.edu/intramurals Martin Luther King Day The SRC and HSC Fitness Center will be closed Monday, January 17 in observance of Martin Luther King Day. We hope you will make it a day on and engage in some sort of community service. "The time is always right to do the right thing." louisville.edu/intramurals ACADEMICS Post-bac pre-med program info sessions Attend our upcoming info sessions to learn how our program can help you become the physician you always wanted to be. Visit louisville.edu/postbacpremed for more details. WHAT'S HAPPENING Winter Welcome Winter Welcome includes in-person and virtual events to learn more about UofL, meet others around campus, show your competitive side and engage with the community. To find all Winter Welcome events, visit uofl.me/winterwelcome Ask Us Anything (Really, anything!) Meet us in the BAB lobby on Monday and Tuesday Jan. 10 & 11 from 10 a.m. – 1 p.m. where you can grab free snacks and enter to win a Nintendo Switch Lite. CANCELED: Here & Beyond Launch Party The January 14 Here & Beyond Launch Party has been canceled due to the current rise of Omicron cases. However, the Office of Communications and Marketing’s Brand Evolution will move forward with Here & Beyond campaign materials making their public debut Monday, January 17, including a national television commercial, print and digital ads, radio spots and more. We look forward to sharing the excitement of our brand and our campaign with the campus community in other ways. AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Scholarship $$ to read and discuss books—apply The Center for Free Enterprise in the College of Business. will host 2 reading groups this semester, with scholarships for eligible participants. Free books, dinners, and great discussion. All undergrad grade levels and majors encouraged to apply by 5pm on January 14. forms.gle/UQfzh4tdCw2dMkae6 SPORTS Martial arts In the SRC Kempo Karate, Aikido, and Ju Jutsu have resumed practicing in the SRC. No experience or aptitude required, with professional instruction from certified teachers in a controlled, safe environment. Check our website for schedules and practice times. SRC Group Fitness is back Group Fitness at the SRC is back. We have a variety of classes offered and we hope to help you on your 2022 fitness journey. louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness/src-group-fitness Student Welcome Back at KFC Yum! Center The UofL Men’s Basketball team hosts NC State Wednesday night at 9 p.m. for “Student Welcome Back!” Celebrate the start of a new semester with a pre-game tailgate and exclusive giveaways, including free Adidas t-shirts and stress balls. uofl.me/mbbstudenttix Women’s Basketball at home Thursday night The UofL Women’s Basketball team hosts Syracuse Thursday at 7 p.m. It’s Faculty and Staff Appreciation Night! We are honoring our campus partners with a $4 ticket offer for all University of Louisville faculty and staff. Admission is free for all students. gocards.com/calendar SUSTAINABILITY UofL Free Store is hiring & open MWF 11am-1pm The UofL Free Store is hiring student staff to help with the free exchange of clean, useful items! Reuse, reuse, reuse! All are welcome to "shop" for free clothing, shoes, accessories, linens, household items, bath/beauty/school/art/cleaning supplies, etc. in SAC W303C 11am-1pm MWF. Donations wanted. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/uofl-free-store-mwf-11-1-1 Paid campus garden & composting internships Like playing in the dirt?! Apply to join the Sustainability Council’s team as a paid Garden, Composting, or Vermicompost Intern! You’ll work with other Interns from the very start of the growing season on campus. Freshmen & sophomores with previous experience preferred. louisville.edu/sustainability Maple Tapping Workshop, 1pm Friday 1/14 Join us in the Garden Commons (SW of Strickler Hall) at 1pm on Friday to learn about tapping trees for sap & making maple syrup! Help us install taps & hang buckets on trees around campus. Sign-up to help empty buckets in coming weeks. Dress warm to work outside. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/maple-tapping-workshop-4 ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I have a disability. How do I get accommodations for my classes? A. The Disability Resource Center works with students with a wide range of disabilities, including, but not limited to ADHD, autism, visual impairment, deaf or hard of hearing, learning disabilities, mobility impairment, psychology disabilities, and temporary disabilities. Contact the DRC for more information. Email askdrc@louisville.edu, call (502) 852-6938, or visit the DRC’s website at louisville.edu/disability. DID YOU KNOW? See what's happening at UofL on Social Media. Student Events can be found on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter at #ULStudentEvents. CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe