No images? Click here August 30, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews IMPORTANT INFORMATION UofL students, enter to win prizes if you are fully vaccinated Prizes awarded after entry deadline: Round 1— September 15, 2021, Round 2 — October 15, 2021 Randomly selected UofL students enrolled for fall 2021 semester are eligible to win prizes—only one prize awarded per student for the fall semester. One entry per student who is fully vaccinated. louisville.edu/studentaffairs/forms/vaccination Question? Concerns? UofL ConcernCenter is a resource directory that students can use to find which campus offices can be helpful based on your questions or concerns. Students simply identify their concerns and are provided with a prioritized list of helpful resources to assist with that concern. Contact information and Google map coordinates for campus offices help you connect with the appropriate resource(s). Check out UofL ConcernCenter and make sure you downloads ConcernCenter on you phone and computer for easy access. If you don’t know where to go with your question or concern, feel free to stop by the Dean of Students Office in the Student Activities Center or email us. The ConcernCenter directory is also a great resource and is only a click away. We’re here for you! ADA Guidelines for students with disabilities louisville.edu/dos/students/policies-procedures/student-handbook.html#adapolicy The University of Louisville is committed to equal opportunity and challenge for all academically qualified students and does not discriminate on the basis of disability. Support services and accommodations are available to encourage students with disabilities to take full advantage of the University's educational, social, and cultural opportunities. Good Samaritan Consideration louisville.edu/dos/students/codeofconduct At times students may need immediate medical or other professional assistance. However, students may be reluctant to get help because of concerns that their own behavior may be a violation of the Code of Student Conduct. To minimize any hesitation students and/or student organizations may have in obtaining help due to these concerns, the University has enacted the following “good samaritan” provision. For more information about the Good Samaritan Consideration, see the Code of Student Conduct, section 16 at: louisville.edu/dos/students/codeofconduct. University Student Conduct Hearing Council louisville.edu/dos/forms/hearingcouncil The University Student Conduct Hearing Council provides an opportunity for students to serve the University community, develop life-long skills in facilitating and resolving conflicts, critical thinking, assertiveness, empathic listening, moral and ethical decision making, and promote civility and citizenship within the University of Louisville community. Are you interested in serving on the University Student Conduct Hearing Council? If so, make sure you complete the online application, due Friday, September 24, 2021. Applicants will be notified of the trainingdates for the fall 2021 semester. Cardinal Card account balances UofL has a new website for meal plans. Visit louisville.edu/cardinalcard/myaccount to add funds or check your account balance. You can log in using your Ulink username@louisville.edu and password. ACADEMICS REACH helps you achieve your academic goals Achieve your academic goals! REACH is now offering academic coaching and tutoring for 100, 200, and some 300-level courses. Visit reach.louisville.edu or call/email at 502-852-6706/reach@louisville.edu. University Writing Center open The University Writing Center is now open for in-person and virtual services. Writing consultants provide students feedback on any writing at any point in the writing process. Schedule an appointment online or contact us for more information on our resources. Creative Writing Group UofL creative writers are invited to join the Creative Writing Group for an open house. The group works together to explore creative writing in a safe, open, and encouraging environment. Writers of any genre and level of experience are welcome. Graduate Student and Faculty Writing Group Graduate students are invited to join the Graduate Student and Faculty Writing Group, which meets Mondays 4-6 pm in the University Writing Center (Ekstrom 132) and on Teams. louisville.edu/writingcenter/for-students-1/graduate-student-writing-groups New Fall 2021 Social Justice & Health Equity The UG track will equip undergrad public health students with the knowledge & skills to understand the historical, socio-political and economic context through which to engage individuals, organizations, communities, and structures for justice & social change. Major specific Study Abroad sessions Throughout the fall 2021 semester, there will be virtual information sessions hosted by the Office of Study Abroad. Sessions will be focus on travel opportunities for specific majors. See our website for the schedule! Official UofL Planner available The Cardinal Compass planner has all the important UofL dates and deadlines you need and other resources. FREE to second-year students and transfers in their first semester at UofL (pick up at the Student Success Center). Also for sale at the UL Bookstore. louisville.edu/firstyear/cardinal-compass EVENTS Student season tickets just $10/month Student season tickets are on sale now. Become a "Flight 23" student season ticket member for $10 per month to gain access every home regular season sporting event for all 23 UofL sports - including football and basketball. gocards.com/sports/2016/3/4/student-tickets.aspx Men's & Women's Soccer at home this week Head to Dr. Mark & Cindy Lynn Stadium this week for a trio of soccer matches. The men host Evansville (Monday, Aug 30) and Bellarmine (Friday, Sept 3/ free student tailgate with food) before the women take the pitch on (Sunday, Sept 5) for a showdown against WKU. Admission is free! gocards.com/calendar Family Friendly Event Women's Equality Day 2021 Join the Women’s Center in celebration of Women’s Equality Day August 31 11am-1pm in the Red Barn. There will be voter registration, informational booths and refreshments including a special guest speaker, Rep. Attica Scott, after 12pm. For more info. contact: phyllis.webb@louisville.edu or visit louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7174249 Fall 2021 In-Person Study Abroad Fair The in-person Study Abroad Fair will be held on Wednesday, September 1 from 11 am – 1 pm in the SAC Ballroom. Learn about study abroad and internship opportunities! CODRE Campus-wide Listening Session September 1, 11:30 to 1:30, Teams. “Returning to Campus During a Pandemic: What’s Your New Normal?” Everyone is welcome, and we look forward to hearing your voices. To register to attend these sessions click here. Study with Delta Come study with Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc., Xi Chapter on September 2 (6pm-8pm) in SAC W116/117 as we kick off our first event of the semester. Bring a textbook and a friend! Learn ways on how to study, stress relief methods, and class etiquette. www.instagram.com/p/CS9mtq0AJrC Volleyball host Cardinal Classic The reigning ACC Champion Louisville Volleyball Team returns home this week for three matches as part of the Cardinal Classic at L&N Federal Credit Union Arena. Admission is free for students. Seating is limited, so be sure to arrive early. Friday, Sept 3, 4:30pm and 7pm; Saturday, Sept 4, 6pm; Sunday Sept 5, 1pm. gocards.com/calendar Family Friendly Event Antiracism Workshops for all students For white and BIPOC students. Learn powerful/ practical tools to respond to interpersonal and systemic racism. Virtual Workshops on Wednesdays, Sept 15, 22, & 29 from 9-10:30. Register here. More information: louisville.edu/cfcwb/training-and-professional-development AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Gilman Scholarship information session The Gilman Scholarship offers up to $5,000 for study abroad. Student must be a U.S. citizen and receiving a Federal Pell Grant to apply. Attend this info session on September 7, at noon in SAC W117 to learn more! facebook.com/events/492127472138289 CLUBS, GROUPS, & ORGANIZATIONS RSO Meet Your Consultant Night Are you in a student organization? Are you looking to get involved with one? Come out to the Red Barn on Wednesday, Sept. 1, 4–7pm, to meet your consultant, get some FREE Kona Ice, and learn more about the resources available for RSOs here at UofL. Connect with alumni; join SOAR Connect with 150,000+ Cardinal alumni through the Student Org. for Alumni Relations. The application opens 8/27 & closes 9/3. Apply through Engage. SOAR enhances the student experience by cultivating relationships with alumni, promoting philanthropy, & preserving UofL traditions. uoflalumni.org/soar VOLUNTEER Help us share UofL’s story The Office of Communications and Marketing is seeking student volunteers to be featured in UofL’s upcoming brand campaign. Launching in early 2022, the campaign will include television commercials and video, photography, advertising, social media and content marketing. Interested Cardinals can fill out this survey to participate. SAFETY Women's Self-Defense class The ULPD will conduct a Rape Aggression Self-Defense (R.A.D) class. This is a comprehensive 9-hour course that begins with awareness, prevention, risk reduction and avoidance while progressing on to the basics of hands-on defense training. Starts September 8 at 5pm. SAC W118. www.rad-systems.com WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS Sign up for Ultimate Frisbee The deadline to sign up for Intramural Ultimate Frisbee is Wednesday, Sept. 1 at 4:30 P.M. Play will begin Sept. 7. It is completely FREE to play, so sign up on IMLeagues.com/louisville. Cricket Club In The SRC The Cricket Club meets in the SRC MAC Court on Friday afternoons from 3-7pm. Cricket is an incredibly popular sport worldwide and already has a strong following on our campus. No experience required, open and welcome to all. louisville.edu/intramurals/sports-clubs Group Fitness Did you know we offer 18 FREE group fitness classes led by our student instructors everyday at the SRC? There's something for everyone at the SRC. louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness/src-group-fitness SRC to close Labor Day The Student Recreation Center will be closed Monday, September 6 in observance of Labor Day. The SRC will be open regular hours of operation Saturday and Sunday and will re-open at 6:30 AM Tuesday. Thank you in advance for your understanding and cooperation. HSC Fitness Center to close on Labor Day The HSC Fitness Center will be closed Monday, September 6 in observance of Labor Day. The center will re-open Tuesday morning at 6:00 AM. We hope you enjoy a safe and happy Labor Day. Thank you in advance for your understanding and cooperation. JOB OPPORTUNITIES Football student recruiting assistants wanted Louisville Football is looking for detail-oriented, outgoing students interested in helping the Louisville Football staff with recruiting event operations. Send a resume and cover letter to carolinem@gocards.com by Wednesday 9/1! SUSTAINABILITY Win prizes in the Cards Commuter Challenge Driving sucks! Save money, burn calories, stop pollution & win cash…all by simply getting to campus in a new way. Bus, bike, walk, or carpool and log your trips at directions.louisville.edu 8/30-9/30 to win one of the $50 weekly prizes or the $250 Grand Prize. Roundtable: Louisville Climate Action Network Join the UofL Sustainability Council on 8/31 as we kick-off our Fall Sustainability Roundtable series on alternate Tuesdays 4:00-4:50pm on Teams. Our first speaker will highlight the work of the Louisville Climate Action Network. Interdisciplinary research in environmental, social & economic justice. Student speakers wanted. louisville.edu/sustainability Cool Weather Gardening Workshop (Friday noon) On 9/3, 12-1pm in the organic Garden Commons, learn how to extend your growing season into the shoulder seasons when water, weed, and insect pressures wane! Upcoming workshops: 9/17 Gardening as Resistance; 10/15 Medicinals; 10/29 Trees; 11/19 Wreathmaking. All are welcome! Share the harvest. Dig it. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/workshop-cool-weather-gardening Family Friendly Event ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I want to get involved at UofL. Any advice? A. UofL Engageis the place to go! Visit here: louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/organizations. You can search over 450 Recognized Student Organizations (RSOs) at UofL to determine what would be a good fit for you. If you do not find an organization that meets your interest, you can also start an RSO! DID YOU KNOW? There is a University Alert System that will text you or email you when there is an emergency on campus. Go to: louisville.edu/alerts. ALSO, there is a RAVE Guardian Safety App for your phone. You can instantly dial 911 or UofL Police, send a tip if you see a crime happening, or set a timer to alert your friends and police if you are late in arriving to a pre-determined destination. Go to: louisville.edu/cardsafety. There is also a University Police Escort service from dusk to dawn and during daylight hours when documented safety concerns exist. louisville.edu/police/services CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe