Skip to main content louisville.edu My Accounts email ulink peoplesoft hr peoplesoft campus solutions peoplesoft financials blackboard business ops cardsmart cardbox cards career connection Plone APPLY Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning DONATE CAMPUSES Belknap HSC Online Search All Sites This Site Search Parameters Search UofL Go Information Technology Services (ITS) Home Get Help Report IssueSelf ServiceChatCall UsRemote Session1:1 AssistanceITS for Employees Email Log-inOffice 365 HelpPasswordsSpam Phish Malware Wireless Wireless InfoReport IssueCampus Housing Wi-Fi Tech Support Classroom SupportDesktop & DevicesHelpDesk1:1 Assistance Remote Work Report / Request Report IssueSelf ServiceULServicesNetworkPhones System Status ULink ulink-upgrade-imagesulink-upgrade-filesStudent ULink UpgradeEmployee Faculty ULink Upgrade Adobe Support Home Get Help ITS for Employees ITS for Employees ITS for Employees In ITS, we provide faculty and staff the services, connections and technology necessary for success. Let us help you navigate the technology landscape at UofL. Is there technology assistance? Having issues with your device or log-in? The ITS HelpDesk can assist you via an online service ticket, online support chat, interactive Bomgar, or call a consultant at (502) 852-7997. If you prefer one-on-one personal assistance, try our iTechConnect drop in services on the Belknap campus on the lower level of the Miller Information Technology Center. DESKTOP SUPPORT PASSWORDS CLASSROOM SUPPORT WIRELESS HELPDESK SELF HELP FREE STORAGE Free Adobe CS SERVICE CATALOG ACCOUNTS PRINTING ENTERPRISE SYSTEMS New employees Where do I begin? Need to find important UofL Services? ULink is a secure (yep, you’ll need to sign-in) portal for all of your necessary employee accounts, personel management and university administrative services. In ULink, you can find all kinds of clickable listings that will help you navigate almost everything at UofL. Three items are key when accessing different systems at UofL: your UofL employee ID#, UofL user ID, and your password. Employees log in at ulink.louisville.edu using their UofL user ID and password. Keep these two items safe – they are mandatory for all secure systems at the university. What is my UofL user ID? How do I set a password? Your UofL user ID is a system generated one that you get when your employee account is set by HR or reactivated from being a UofL student. If you forget or don’t already know your user ID, you can access it using your social security number and birthdate. You will need to set up a password and activate your account in our Identity Management system by following the steps required. Assistance is available in our step-by-step guide or through our ITS HelpDesk. If you were a former UofL student or returning employee, please contact the ITS HelpDesk to get your password reset. What is my university email address? Employees automatically receive an email account when they are hired. You must check and use this account for all of your university correspondence. Your default email address is your UofL user ID@louisville.edu (for example: fmlast01@louisville.edu). UofL’s Microsoft Outlook system allows for access to email, calendars and archives through web portals, installed software and on mobile devices. Outlook also allows you to maintain a calendar that is viewable by fellow employees so meetings are easily scheduled among multiple participants. While this account is set by UofL, you can have another email address that goes to this same account. The other is called your “preferred email” address. The default chosen name for your preferred email is usually, depending on the commonality of your first and last name = firstname.lastname@louisville.edu. To view or change the preferred option, go to ULink > on the Portal entrance under Resources, click on Email Addresses, sign into system > Here you’ll see your information and options. How do I begin using my UofL email? Sign-in to your email account at outlook.office365.com using your default UofL email address (UofL userID@louisville.edu). Your password is the same as your ULink password. After your initial log-in into your email, it is highly recommended to reset your password. You will need to familiarize yourself with our password requirements and identity management portal. If you have forgotten your password please use our reset password feature. If you have not set up an alternative email or number for text confirmation to reset your password, please contact the ITS HelpDesk at (502) 852-7997, LiveChat, or create a ticket in our service catalog. As faculty, how do I manage my course content online? UofL’s online learning management system, Blackboard, provides resources and support for all of your courses and organizations. Using your same user ID and password, you will be able to access course materials, class discussions, media files, grades and other services. Some courses are totally online through Blackboard. Available as both a web-based platform and mobile app, you’ll love how easy it can be to navigate your coursework. You’ll also want to check out all of the services, programming and resources offered by the Delphi Center for Teaching and Learning. all employees Got a device? Need Wireless? Throughout each campus, UofL offers four types of wireless service: ULvisitor is for visitors (no log-in required) on a short-term use with limited functionality. ULsponsor is for full-service, unencrypted network access but for only 30 days and requires a university sponsor for access. All students, faculty and staff use either our ULsecure network or our Eduroam service as both allow those with a valid UofL user ID and password, encrypted wireless service. See our wireless page for more information. How do I stay informed about emergencies? Get connected today with UofL Alerts to receive real-time text messages from UofL during an emergency. What’s UL2FCTR / Duo and why is it necessary? UofL two-factor authentication adds a second layer of security to your online accounts by requiring a second piece of information before you can log-in to any HR-related information. Through Duo's two-factor authentication, ITS can provide better protection for your personal information and increase the security of campus data assets. Through a mobile or web application, the authentication is separate and independent from your UofL user ID and password. The two-step confirmation process insures that you are the one accessing your account. What do I need to know about acceptable use at UofL? Computing accounts, digital accessibility and technology facilities must not be used in any manner that could be interpreted as disruptive or damaging. No action that would cause harm to the university computing infrastructure, resources or data and other users will be accepted. The official university policy provides complete details. Other guidelines for use are also applicable. Each employee is held responsible to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of all electronic data and follow university procedures for protecting sensitive data. Passwords to all university accounts and devices must be kept confidential in order to protect sensitive data such as personal and student/patient information. Encryption is mandatory on all university-owned computers and all personal devices used for storing, transferring or transmitting confidential and sensitive information. What happens to my employee account(s) if I leave UofL? Employees leaving (not retiring) the university must cease use of UofL licensed software (O365, Microsoft Campus Agreement products, Adobe, DocuSign and others) both online and installed on all devices. CardBox accounts are transferrable to a personal Box account. If you are also a student: Once graduated, as a UofL alum, you are eligible to set up permanent email forwarding. Emails sent to your university account will be forwarded to the personal account of your choosing. To set up email forwarding, go to our Identity Management system under My Profile > My Availability > Email for Life > switch option to Yes > Enter forwarding email address > re-enter forwarding email address > Save. If you retire: An employee who retires retains their original email as long as they log into to their UofL email at least once every 180 days. If a retiree does not log-in or update their password every 180 days, the account will close. Retirees can request email forwarding at any time after they retire. This means that emails sent to your university account will be forwarded to the personal account of your choosing. To set up email forwarding, go to our Identity Management system under My Profile > My Availability > Email for Life > switch option to Yes > Enter forwarding email address > re-enter forwarding email address > Save. If you are a part-time lecturer (PTL): These include employees whose pay groups are L12, L11, F11, F51, or G12. Their accounts are closed twice a year – in late February or early March if the PTL employee is no longer employed, in September or early October if the PTL employee is no longer employed. An email notification is sent to the part-time lecturer before the account is closed. If you (otherwise) leave permanently: Employees are allowed to keep their computer accounts at the University of Louisville as long as they are actively employed. Accounts are closed the day the user is officially terminated from the University of Louisville. No notifications are sent. ABOUT US TECH SUPPORT CONTACT US TWITTER INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES (ITS) Miller Information Technology Center, Room 109 University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 OFFICE HOURS M-F: 8:00 am to 5:00 pm No holiday hours. PHONE 502.852.6621 © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login email ulink peoplesoft hr peoplesoft campus solutions peoplesoft financials blackboard business ops cardsmart cardbox cards career connection Plone © University of Louisville