Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online University of Louisville Cultural Center Navigation Home About Us Meet the Staff Reports About UsAbout Us Dropdown Toggle Meet the Staff Reports Programs Events Calendar Graduation Celebration 2021 Virtual Graduation Celebration 2021 Graduation Recognition ProgramsPrograms Dropdown Toggle Events Calendar Graduation Celebration 2021 Virtual Graduation Celebration 2021 Graduation Recognition Student Success Initiatives Black Male Initiative Early Arrival Program Hispanic/Latinx & Indigenous Initiative LSAMP (STEM) Program Woodford R. Porter Scholarship Program Parish Living Learning Community Student Success InitiativesStudent Success Initiatives Dropdown Toggle Black Male Initiative Early Arrival Program Hispanic/Latinx & Indigenous Initiative LSAMP (STEM) Program Woodford R. Porter Scholarship Program Parish Living Learning Community Student Involvement Cardinal Care Spaces Scholarships Giving 2022 AAPI Heritage Week May Website Banner Student Involvement Diversity Leadership Institute SPS Logo Proud to be Porter Logo Cultural Center Staff Feedback Form Student InvolvementStudent Involvement Dropdown Toggle Diversity Leadership Institute SPS Logo Proud to be Porter Logo Cultural Center Staff Feedback Form Student Involvement Diversity Leadership Institute SPS Logo Proud to be Porter Logo Cultural Center Staff Feedback Form Home / Student Involvement Student Involvement Student Organizations Black Student Union: The mission of the Black Student Union (BSU) is to stimulate and promote the intellectual, political, social, and cultural health of the campus community as a whole, with a focus on the issues impacting African American students and other underrepresented groups. BSU in the "umbrella" organization of African American student & organizations. They provide a resource clearing house for the social, financial, cultural, and advocacy needs on campus. Contact Information: uoflabs@gmail.com Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/BSUUOFL Black Diamond Choir (BDC): The Black Diamond Choir is a one hour credit course offered at the University of Louisville each semester listed as Music 109 (optional). Organized in 1969, the student gospel group has been singing and sharing the "Good News" locally and in various locations withing Kentucky, Indiana, Tennessee, Ohio, and Georgia. Contact us via email at Black Diamond Choir Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/black.diamond.choir Latin American & Hispanic Student Organization (LAHSO): The Latin American and Hispanic Student Organization is a RSO dedicated to celebrate the wide variety of Latin American/Hispanic history, heritage, cultures, and traditions present on the University of Louisville' campus through a fun and culturally inclusive way. Created in November 2009, LAHSO provides a common ground for those interested in all of these aspects of the Hispanic/Latino community through a combined effort with any interested student, campus leader, RSO, and group present at UofL. LAHSO it will emphasize and inform the larger UofL community of the presence and importance of the Hispanic/Latino people. Contact: Sarah Nunez Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/groups/LAHSO/ Garden Common Partnering with the local non-profit Louisville Grows, the University of Louisville is planting the seed to discuss, and explore the possibilities of, creating food independence.The Garden Commons at the University of Louisville’s Cultural Center, the first community garden of its kind on the Belknap campus, provides an edible and educational landscape in which to actively promote a more sustainable food network. The Garden Commons is currently supported by Louisville Grows, the Cultural Center, UofL’s Sustainability Council, and more than a dozen campus and city organizations. The enthusiasm and hands-on engagement of UofL students, faculty, and staff as well as members of the greater community have and will continue to make this initiative a success. Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/groups/gardencommons/ Campus gardens information: http://louisville.edu/sustainability/sustainability-home-page/operations/garden-commons.html National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) The mission of the NAACP Youth and College Division is to inform youth of the problem affecting African Americans and other racial and ethnic minorities; to advance the economic, education, social and political status of African Americans and other racial and ethnic minorities and their harmonious cooperation with other peoples. The vision of the Youth & College division is to develop a new generation of leadership. Contact: Leondra Gully Woodford R. Porter Scholars The society of Porter Scholars is the largest African American scholarship organization at the University of Louisville. Named after former university trustee Woodford R. Porter, Sr., the scholarship was created in 1984. The society's mission and purpose are to provide support and assistance, academically, personally and socially for the retention of Porter Scholars. The Porter Scholar's major event this year was the 25th Celebration of Scholarship. The event, featuring WHAS 11 Anchor Renee Murphy as the host, included a message of empowerment from President James Ramsey, photos ops, reflections from the Porter family, dinner and entertainment. Contact Leondra Gully Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/pages/UofL-Woodford-R-Porter-Scholars-Official-Page/230253390333395 Brothers United: Brothers United is a recognized student organization at the University of Louisville focused on brotherhood, scholarship, community service, and increasing the success of men of color. BU accomplishes its goals by providing a "home base" for its members, providing them with social and academic support, and helps brothers navigate college services and resources. Brothers United is an extension of the African American Male Initiative at UofL. To learn more about joining Brothers United visit the UofL OrgSync portal. Membership is open to any UofL student. Contact: Brandyn Bailey The University Student Academic Rights and Responsibilities may be found by following this link:Student Rights and Procedures. Student Involvement Diversity Leadership Institute SPS Logo Proud to be Porter Logo Cultural Center Staff Feedback Form © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville