[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Bachelor's Degree Programs / Online Bachelor’s in Accountancy /-/images/pages/bsacct/2010_BSBA-ACCT_1596x740.jpg Prepare for a successful accounting career. bsacct bsacct-program-page organic ../../programs/masters/master-of-business-administration?tab=apply Veronica Johnson Online Enrollment Counselor Online Bachelor's in Accountancy The online Bachelor of Science in Business Administration (BSBA) in Accountancy is designed to deliver essential accounting knowledge to anyone looking for a flexible online program that will enrich their accounting expertise, help them start or grow their career in the field and/or prepare them to successfully sit for the CPA exam. UofL's online BSBA in Accountancy is virtually identical to our on-campus program, except delivered in a flexible online format that allows you to gain all the benefits of a University of Louisville College of Business education without ever physically coming to campus. Develop the knowledge and skills necessary for a successful career as a professional accountant by completing coursework in key business and accounting areas—whenever it's most convenient to you. Offered by the School of Accountancy and the College of Business at the University of Louisville. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Already have your bachelor's degree? Check out our Certificate in Accounting, which is designed for bachelor's degree holders who want to move into the accounting field, advance their current career and/or take the CPA exam. Highlights Enrich your business and accounting knowledge with courses in marketing, management, finance, and economics. Prepare for the CPA examination (state requirements may vary). Develop skills in using the latest in technological resources—including tax accounting databases, Microsoft Office, Tableau, and others. Complete the program in 4 years, or faster with transferred credits from prior coursework. Learn from anywhere in the world, on your schedule, with 100% online courses. Interact, learn from and network with other students in an online environment. Engage with world-class faculty, many with extensive backgrounds in business and research. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete your degree on your own time through fully online coursework and learning tools. Learn More 120 CREDIT HOURS Earn your accounting bachelor’s in 120 credit hours—with the option to transfer in up to 60 hours. Learn More AACSB ACCREDITED PROGRAM UofL’s School of Accountancy is 1 of 178 accounting programs in the world to receive this accreditation. "If you look around at the fields that are in demand, you'll find that accounting is always up there near the top. There are just so many opportunities. It gives you an understanding of business that's hard to get other places or in other disciplines; it gives you exposure to business like no other career path." Bill Stout, Ph.D., CPA (Connecticut), BSBAA PROGRAM DIRECTOR SCHOOL OF ACCOUNTANCY REQUEST INFORMATION What can I do with a bachelor's in accountancy? Graduating with your BSBA in Accountancy will give you the expertise you need to start or advance a career in accounting, finance, business and more. Complete the education requirements needed to qualify for the CPA (more information below) Develop your understanding of business practices and research skills in tax, accounting, and auditing—all skills that will help you achieve your career goals, support your business’ bottom line and more Learn more than just accounting; acquire valuable transferable knowledge in other business areas, from marketing to economics Study data analytics and other tools currently used by auditors and other accounting professionals CAREER OPPORTUNITIES Auditor Bookkeeper Certified Public Accountant (CPA) Cost Estimator Finance Manager Financial Advisor Financial Analyst Small Business Finance Management Tax Examiner BECOME A CPA Graduates will also be prepared to successfully complete the CPA examination in Kentucky and other states. The CPA designation is a further mark of excellence for those pursuing careers in accountancy, and is a requirement for careers in public accounting. UofL's BSBA in Accountancy awards students with 120 credit hours that cover both of the sub-requirements needed to qualify for the CPA exam by the Kentucky State Board of Accountancy (minimum of 27 credit hours in accounting and 12 credit hours in business-related subjects). Requirements may vary from state to state, and the BSBAA program may meet the educational requirements for examination or licensure in states outside of KY. Since these requirements occasionally change, we highly recommend you read more information about the exam and the requirements at the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy website. Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May/June Steps to Apply Complete online application Submit $25 application fee Send required materials (listed below) Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu Admission in good standing requires: GPA of 2.8 or better on a 4.0 scale based on all work attempted for college credit. (If previously enrolled at UofL, GPA will be calculated only on UofL work attempted for college credit.) Good standing in the institution of last attendance, including eligibility to return to that institution Full disclosure of previous attendance in another school or college of UofL and/or any other post-secondary institution Transfer Students – less than 24 transferable credits from accredited institutions In addition to meeting the 2.8 transfer college GPA, must meet all new freshmen requirements for COB applicants. Required to submit: All previous official college transcripts Final high school transcript ACT or SAT scores Transfer Students – 24+ transferable credits from accredited institutions Must have completed the following courses with a letter grade of B-minus or better: MATH 111 College Algebra – QR (or equivalent) or completion of MATH 180 ACCT 201 (or equivalent) Either ECON 201 or ECON 202 (or equivalent) Required to submit all previous official college transcripts. Transfer Credit Students may transfer up to 60 hours from a community college and up to 90 hours from an accredited 4-year college. Transfer applicants must have a minimum college GPA of 2.5 to be admitted in good standing. Complete the credit transfer pre-evaluation to get an idea of how many credits you'll be able to transfer in toward your UofL bachelor's degree, and visit our General Transfer Student page for more details. Are you a KCTCS student? KCTCS students can transfer completed associate degrees in their entirety and begin immediately with online upper level coursework at UofL. Visit our KCTCS Transfers Page for more information. See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. The online Bachelor’s in Business Administration in Accountancy from UofL is a 120 credit hour program, divided into the following curriculum components: General education classes – all undergraduate degrees require completion of the university-wide General Education Program (31 credit hours) College of Business requirements (47 credit hours) Core accounting courses and electives (42 credit hours) College of Business Requirements Courses Hours CAMP 100 Campus Culture/Business Students 1 MATH 180 Elements of Calculus OR MATH 205 Calculus 1 (campus only)* Select one of the following: PHIL 222 Contemporary Ethical Problems PHIL 225 Business Ethics PHIL 321 Ethics PHIL 323 Medical Ethics 3 BUS 301 Business Communication 3 BUS 201 Career Development 1 ACCT 201 Principles of Financial Accounting 3 ACCT 202 Principles of Managerial Accounting 3 ECON 201 Principles of Microeconomics * ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3 BSTA 301 Business Statistics 3 CIS 205 Information Systems in Organizations 3 FIN 301 Corporate Finance 3 MKT 301 Principles of Marketing 3 MGMT 301 Management and Organizational Behavior 3 CLAW 301 Legal Environment of Business 3 CIS 305 Data Analysis for Decision-Making 3 MGMT 401 Operations Management 3 General electives 6 Total Hours Required: 53 *Math and Economics requirements attribute 6 hours to both general education and College of Business requirements. Core Accounting Courses Course Titles Hours ACCT 301 Intermediate Accounting I 3 ACCT 302 Intermediate Accounting II 3 ACCT 310 Introduction to Accounting Information Systems 3 ACCT 315 Introduction to Taxation 3 ACCT 320 Managerial Cost Accounting 3 ACCT 411 Advanced Accounting Information Systems 3 ACCT 430 Auditing Theory and Practice 3 MGMT 404 Project Management 3 Accounting elective – choose from one of the following: ACCT 353 Accounting for Not-For-Profit Organizations ACCT 401 Advanced Accounting Problems ACCT 415 Advanced Taxation ACCT 420 Advanced Managerial Cost Accounting ACCT 397/398/399 Co-op in Accounting 3 Business electives 3 General electives 12 Total Hours Required: 42 Notes: Transfer students must take a minimum of 12 credit hours in their major within the College of Business. 6 hours of cultural diversity courses are required and may be incorporated within the degree program START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Does the BSBAA help me meet the requirements I need to take the CPA exam? That depends on where you plan to become a CPA. The Kentucky State Board of Accountancy requires a minimum of 27 credit hours in accounting and 12 credit hours in business-related subjects to qualify for the CPA exam. The BSBAA degree awards you with 120 credit hours that cover both of those sub-requirements. These requirements may vary from state to state, and the BSBAA program may meet the educational requirements for examination or licensure in states outside of KY. Since these requirements occasionally change, we highly recommend you read more information about the exam and the requirements at the National Association of State Boards of Accountancy website. Does this program prepare me to become a CPA in other states? Our analysis shows that the BSBAA meets the requirements to sit for the CPA exam in most states. Some states and territories have different requirements. Specifically, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Northern Mariana Islands, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Palau, Puerto Rico, South Dakota, Utah, Washington (state), and Wyoming have different or additional requirements that the BSBAA does not meet. For example, some states require a total of 150 credit hours to take the CPA exam. Some states require specific courses that are not part of the BSBAA curriculum. Nevertheless, the BSBAA program will assist students with meeting the accounting and business course requirements in other states if at all possible. We strongly recommend that you inquire with your applicable state board of accountancy, or other licensing board to determine all of the educational requirements before enrolling in the program. Please view the information on our “Professional Licensure Notifications and Disclosures” page for more information: http://louisville.edu/online/About-Us/state-authorization-disclosures Once I’ve completed the BSBAA and passed the CPA exam, am I a CPA? Not necessarily. In addition to the education requirements and passing the CPA exam, you may need to complete a period of work experience, pay application and licensing fees, pass a criminal background check, submit references, fingerprint submissions, etc. Please view the information on our “Professional Licensure Notifications and Disclosures” page for more information: http://louisville.edu/online/About-Us/state-authorization-disclosures. And be sure to go to the appropriate state board of accountancy (or other professional licensure agency of the local government) to learn about all of the requirements to become a CPA. The CPA is a state designation and is governed by the states and other jurisdictions. Make sure you know the requirements in your chosen location. I noticed UofL offers an online Certificate in Accounting. Which program is right for me? Both the certificate and bachelor’s programs offer a viable pathway to advancing your education in accounting, sitting for the CPA exam or starting/advancing your career. Whether or not the program is right for you will depend on your previous education and background. For instance, the certificate in accounting is a post-baccalaureate program that requires a bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution (see the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information). Respectively, the bachelor’s in accounting only requires a high school diploma (for admission to the lower division) or an associate degree (for admission to the upper division). Contact one of our enrollment counselors at online@louisville.edu or 1.800.871.8635 to find out which program best fits your goals. How long will it take me to complete my degree? The standard length for completion of the BSBA in Accountancy is 4 years. This is without taking any courses over the summer, at full-time status. However, with transferred credits and summer courses, your degree could be completed in a shorter timeframe. Contact us today to see how quickly you can earn your degree! How will I know if my courses will transfer? Once you’ve applied to the program, credit transfer checks are a standard part of the admission process. However, if you want to get a feel for how many general education credits will transfer before applying, check out UofL’s unofficial credit pre-evaluation tool. Are there specific class times for the online courses? No! To help you balance your education needs with all that life demands, all courses are offered through an asynchronous format—meaning you complete coursework and class requirements at the time that’s best for you. Will the online exams be proctored? There is no mandated proctoring rule for the online accountancy courses. However this decision is ultimately left up to the discretion of the course instructor. Will my course textbooks be available online? While there’s no guarantee, we typically use textbooks available in print and eBook format. Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link