[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Bachelor's Degree Programs / Online Bachelor of Science in Sport Administration /-/images/pages/bsspad/BSspad_Header.jpg Lead the Playing Field. bsspad bsspad-program-page organic ../../programs/bachelors/bachelor-of-science-in-sport-administration?tab=apply Miriam Jones Online Enrollment Counselor Online Bachelor of Science in Sport Administration The online Bachelor of Science in Sport Administration is designed for students looking to gain the leadership knowledge and skills needed to launch or enhance their sport business career. Offered by the College of Education and Human Development at the University of Louisville, the online bachelor’s in Sport Administration leverages faculty expertise, hands-on industry experience and a career-focused curriculum to develop your understanding of sport management. Through courses covering topics including administration, finance, economics, marketing, and law, you will learn to think critically about current issues in the sports industry and modern methods of addressing such issues in your organization, local communities and around the world. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Tuition and fees are subject to change at any time without prior notice. Highlights Develop a comprehensive understanding of the sport administration and management field. Learn from expert faculty with distinguished academic credentials and industry experience. Customize your program to match your goals with flexible learning, personal attention and electives designed to match your interest. Hear from guest lecturers with leadership experience within leading sport business organizations. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete your degree on your own time through fully online coursework and learning tools. Learn More 123 CREDIT HOURS This curriculum follows the standard requirements of the College of Education and Human Development. Learn More 450+ NETWORK OF EMPLOYERS Connect with experts, get involved and make a difference in sport management. "Sport gives us the opportunity to come together, to share passions, to feel part of something bigger. We really focus at the bachelor's level on making our students work ready, so that you're developing skill sets that are going to help you get a job, be successful in those entry level positions, and then move on in your career." MEG HANCOCK, PH.D. SPORT ADMINISTRATION FACULTY What will I learn as a B.S. in Sport Administration student? The expertise you’ll develop as an online bachelor’s in sport administration student will enable you to become a capable administrator in sports business. You’ll develop a deeper understanding of management, leadership, ethics, communication, financial principles and best practices within the field. Specific expertise gained from the program will include: Comprehensive understanding of the various management theories and research as well as their application to sport organization and administration Awareness of potential legal duties and responsibilities, legal rights, liability prevention, alternatives to litigation and actions to pursue if involves in law Methods to think critically and make informed decisions on critical issues faced by managers and administrators in the sport industry Applications of key marketing concepts and strategies within the sport industry What careers can I pursue with a B.S. in Sport Administration? Our program boasts a large network of employers (450+) who empower our students and alumni to get involved and make a difference in sport management. Career opportunities are available to Sport Administration graduates in fields such as: Athlectics administration Facility management Fitness & wellness Event management Sport marketing PR & communications Ticketing & sales Management and leadership Sport administration professions are expected to see a lot of growth in the 2019-2029 decade. Careers in areas like administrative services and facilities managers are expected to grow 6% nationwide, which is faster than the average national occupation growth rate and have a median annual salary of $98,890. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Preferred Application Deadline Term Start August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May/June Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu Steps to Apply Complete online application Submit $25 application fee Send required materials (listed below) Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission in good standing requires: GPA of 2.5 or better (4.0 scale) Good standing in the institution of last attendance, including eligibility to return to that institution Full disclosure of previous attendance in another school or college of UofL and/or any other post-secondary institution Transfer Students – less than 24 transferable credits from accredited institutions Required to submit: All previous official college transcripts Final high school transcript ACT or SAT scores Transfer Students – 24+ transferable credits from accredited institutions Required to submit all previous official college transcripts. Transfer Credit Students may transfer up to 60 hours from a community college and up to 90 hours from an accredited 4-year college. Transfer applicants must have a minimum college GPA of 2.5 to be admitted in good standing. Complete the credit transfer pre-evaluation to get an idea of how many credits you'll be able to transfer in toward your UofL bachelor's degree, and visit our General Transfer Student page for more details. Are you a KCTCS student? KCTCS students can transfer completed associate degrees in their entirety and begin immediately with online upper level coursework at UofL. Visit our KCTCS Transfers Page for more information. See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. Note: Students are admitted to the University of Louisville first, until all core courses and pre-requisites are completed. You will officially be admitted into the Sport Administration program after completion of the following courses (with a grade of “C” or better): SPAD 281 Principles of Sport Administration SPAD 284 Issues and Ethics in Sport See Courses tab for a full degree sequence. Start Your Application The Online Bachelor of Science in Sport Administration is a 36 credit hour program that requires 27 credit hours in core courses and 9 credit hours in electives (as approved by advisor). Course Title Hours Cardinal Core (General Education) Requirements – 31 hours Program Requirements of HSS Department – 6 hours HSS 184 Healthy Lifestyles I OR HSS 310 Healthy Lifestyles II OR HSS 293 Social and Psychological Dimensions of Physical Activity (SB and CD2) 3 HSS 101-167 Physical Education Activity Courses 2 HSS 181 Academic Orientation 1 Sport Administration Admission Courses – 6 hours (Students must receive a grade of “C” or better (“C-“ will NOT count) SPAD 281 Principles of Sport Administration 3 SPAD 284 Issues and Ethics in Sport 3 Sport Administration Core Courses – 33 hours (Students mus receive a grade of “C” or better, a “D“ will NOT count) SPAD 382 Sport Management and Leadership 3 SPAD 383 Sport Marketing 3 SPAD 390 Sport Governance Prerequisite: SPAD 281 3 SPAD 391 Sociology of Sport 3 SPAD 401 Career Development in Sport Administration Prerequisites: Admission to Sport Administration major, SPAD 383, and one other 3-hour SPAD course 1 SPAD 402 Internship in Sport Administration Prerequisite: Admission to Sport Administration major and SPAD 401 8 SPAD 404 Financial Principles in Sport Prerequisite: Admission to Sport Administration major or instructor permission 3 SPAD 445 Sport Communication 3 SPAD 489 Legal Aspects of Sport Prerequisite: Admission to Sport Administration major or instructor permission 3 SPAD 490 Senior Seminar in Sport Business Prerequisite: Admission to Sport Administration major, SPAD 382, SPAD 383, and SPAD 390 3 Sport Administration Electives* – Choose 3 courses (9 hours) (Students mus receive a grade of “C” or better, a “D“ will NOT count) SPAD 360 Administering Intramural Activities 3 SPAD 405 Sport Facility Management SPAD 480 Athletics in Higher Education 3 SPAD 509 International Sport 3 SPAD 510 Entrepreneurship in Sport Business SPAD 524 Management of Professional Baseball 3 SPAD 525 Sport Event Management 3 SPAD 529 Women and Sport 3 SPAD 530 Sport Promotion and Sales 3 SPAD 561 Special Topics in SPAD 3 Electives – 38 Hours (consult advisor) SPAD majors are strongly encouraged to complete a minor. Minimum Total Credits Required 123 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Featured Faculty Can the entire degree be completed online? Yes. The Bachelor of Science (BS) in Sport Administration offers all of the required courses online. Are there specific classes that must be completed first? Yes. The Sport Administration (SPAD) online program requires completion of SPAD 281 and SPAD 284 with a C or better for you to be admitted into the program. Are there specific course prerequisites? Is there a specific course sequence? Yes. It is recommended that you meet with an advisor to determine the best course sequencing for online learning. Many of the BS classes are only offered online in the fall or spring, so it is crucial for online learners to follow the recommended course sequence. Do I need a minor? Which minor should I choose? How will it benefit me? While a minor is not required for the bachelor’s in SPAD, it can be a great way to add an additional skillset or gain knowledge to advance the opportunities in a sport career. How do I declare a minor? How and when does it show up on my transcript? You can declare a minor online through Education Advising/Student Services Office (EASS). Visit http://louisville.edu/education/advising to learn more. What are general college requirements? How many credits do I need to graduate? The general college requirements can be found in the course catalog. The online BS in SPAD requires that you complete at least 123 credits to graduate (41 classes). What are upper division credits/courses? Do I have to complete a certain number of upper division hours? What classes do these need to be? Yes. An upper division (UD) course is a junior level or senior level course. These courses are the 300, 400 or 500 level courses. The University of Louisville requires that you complete 50 credit hours of upper division credit. There are 42 upper division credits in the SPAD core. The additional upper division classes may be taken in SPAD, in a minor or in another discipline at the University. Transfer credits can also count toward to total required UD credits when applicable. What courses make up the Sport Administration core? The SPAD core are the courses that are required by all SPAD majors. These classes are listed in the Course List page or in the UofL course catalog. Do I have to have a "C" or better in all SPAD courses? Yes. A “C” or better is required for you to officially declare a SPAD major (passing SPAD 281 and SPAD 284). All other SPAD courses require a “C-” or better. A “D” is not accepted as passing in the SPAD program. What is the minimum GPA needed to enter the program? What is the GPA required to graduate? The minimum GPA required to declare as a SPAD major is 2.5. The requirement to graduate with a BS in Sport Administration is a 2.25 GPA. Can I have a double major? Yes. A double major is possible. It is recommended that you speak with an advisor early in your academic career if you’re considering obtaining a double major. How many electives do I need to complete? Which classes should I choose as these electives? You are required to complete a total of 47 elective credits. You can work with your advisor to find the best combination of electives. Our advisors are experienced at assisting students with the course selection of both the general electives and the specific program electives. Are there any courses that I cannot take? No. There are no specific restrictions on taking classes, however there is no guarantee the classes taken will meet the degree requirements for the online BS in Sport Administration. It is always recommended that you follow the course recommendations or speak with an advisor about satisfaction of degree requirements. What is the cultural diversity requirement and how does it relate to my degree? The cultural diversity requirement is part of UofL’s General Education (Cardinal Core) requirements. All students seeking an undergraduate degree at UofL are required to complete this course. How do I get my transferable credit evaluated? How will transfer courses show on my records? How can I see the classes that transferred and what requirements they meet? The Office of Transfer & Adult Services is available to assist with evaluating your transfer credits. Visit http://louisville.edu/admissions/apply/transfer/ to learn more about the transfer process. How will I know I am taking the correct courses? Your academic advisor will help you navigate the curriculum and schedule. You will have an assigned advisor in the College of Education or in the Health & Sport Sciences Department to assist with courses and resources. How do I ensure that I get into the class I need before it fills up? There is a limit on the number of seats available in online classes. Students enrolled in the online BS program are encouraged to register on their assigned registration date. What is the expertise of the faculty who teach online classes? The SPAD faculty who teach online all have experience in the sport industry, have completed online teacher training and have expertise in the subject areas they teach. What will I do if I need help with my coursework? You may contact your academic advisor for any coursework needs. Additionally, UofL offers a variety of resources for online learners, and support for a productive online learning experience. Visit http://louisville.edu/online/Student-Resources for more information. How will I complete the required internship online? The internship requirement for SPAD students can be completed in any location at an approved sport organization internship site. You will work with the Internship Coordinator to find an appropriate internship location that meets your interest and career goals. Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link