No images? Click here September 6, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews COVID-19 Pop-up vaccination events Campus Health is launching a series of pop-up vaccination events across campus to help us get our campus community's vaccination rate up to 80 percent. Do your part by getting vaccinated or encouraging your friends and classmates to do so. Each week Campus Health will update the schedule of where the pop-up vaccination events will occur next. COVID-19 Testing UofL's contract vendor, Bluewater Diagnostic Lab, has testing available for all university members on weekdays on the Belknap and HSC campuses. University members who are not vaccinated are required to get tested regularly. During the mandatory testing period, September 7–27, the first floor lobby at the Student Recreation Center and the SAC West first floor will be testing sights. Learn more. IMPORTANT INFORMATION UofL ConcernCenter ConcernCenter is a directory designed to help you find campus resources based on various questions or concerns. Select the category associated with your concern, search for your concern, or check the alphabetical listing of concerns or resources. https://louisville.concerncenter.com Student Complaints Students are encouraged to resolve complaints with the person or department with whom they have a dispute. However, should this approach fail or be inappropriate, students may submit written complaints through the on-line complaint form. Once received, the complaints will be forwarded to the appropriate academic area or administrative unit for review. If you have questions regarding the process, please contact Samantha MacKenzie, Student Advocate at (502) 852-5787. https://louisville.edu/dos/help/student-complaint-procedure University Student Conduct Hearing Council The University Student Conduct Hearing Council provides an opportunity for students to serve the University community, develop life-long skills in facilitating and resolving conflicts, critical thinking, assertiveness, empathic listening, moral and ethical decision making, and promote civility and citizenship within the University of Louisville community. Are you interested in serving on the University Student Conduct Hearing Council? If so, make sure you complete the online application, due Friday, September 24, 2021. Applicants will be notified of the training dates for the fall 2021 semester. https://louisville.edu/dos/forms/hearingcouncil SGA NEWS Student feedback for housing improvements SGA is asking for student feedback in the following residencies: University Pointe, Cardinal Towne, and The Clubhouse. If you have any comments/areas of concern/suggestions for improvement, please share your experiences in the short Google form. ACADEMICS BS in Public Health, track in pre-health This undergraduate degree program is for students who wish to complete pre-health prerequisites while completing their major in public health. The curriculum meets most prerequisite requirements for the majority of pre-health professions. Eligible students must have and maintain a 2.8GPA. catalog.louisville.edu/undergraduate/majors/public-health-bs/#trackrequirementstext EVENTS Men's & Women's Soccer at Home this Week Head to Lynn Stadium this week for a trio of soccer matches. The men host Kentucky (Tuesday) for Red Out and Wake Forest for Noche de Familia y Amigos (Friday). The women host Michigan (Friday). Admission is free. Come early to receive free promotional items while supplies last. gocards.com/calendar Family Friendly Event Ribbons with raiseRED September is Sickle Cell and Childhood Cancer Awareness Month. Join raiseRED for its first Awareness Week by tagging a ribbon in honor of a loved one who has battled cancer! Find us on the 1st floor of the SAC September 7–10 from 11am–1pm. National Suicide Prevention Week How can you help prevent suicide? For a list of events and more information go to louisville.edu/cardsspeak. Craft Night in the SSC For the crafty (and not-so-crafty): Paint-your-own mini-canvas, button-making, personalized swag, relaxing coloring and hanging out. No talent needed to have fun! One Grand Prize & 2 Sur-prizes awarded to randomly selected students thanks to the SSC & Commonwealth Credit Union! September 8, 7:00 PM, Belknap Academic Bldg. Lobby. louisville.edu/firstyear/events/ssc-success-series/ssc-success-series/#september Family Friendly Event Field Hockey at home this week The UofL Field Hockey teams hosts two games this week at Trager Stadium. Friday versus Indiana for Stars and Stripes night and Sunday against Liberty. Admission is FREE. Come early to receive free promotion items on Friday while supplies last. gocards.com/calendar Family Friendly Event Football home opener this week The University of Louisville Football team is at Cardinal Stadium on Saturday for their home opener against Eastern Kentucky. The team is excited to have Cardinal Stadium at full capacity this season. Be sure to get your tickets early and bring your cards family spirit! gocards.com/football/schedule/2021 Family Friendly Event Delight Ministries Women's Ministries Join us for our kickoff event, September 13 at 5:45pm, 323 W. Cardinal Blvd. linktr.ee/delight_uofl Family Friendly Event Just Dance! with raiseRED Come dance with raiseRED and your friends Monday, the 13th in the SAC MPR from 6-7 PM! You'll also be able to register for the 2022 Dance Marathon in-person. Register for the raiseRED Dance Marathon Join raiseRED and get a head start on fundraising for children with pediatric cancer and blood diseases to attend the 18-hour dance marathon in February! Follow us on Instagram @raiseRED_uofl or visit our website raiseRED.org for the link to register and more information. COMMUTER AND TRANSFER STUDENTS Lunch & Learn The office of Commuter and Transfer Student Initiatives presents: Lunch & Learn with the University Career Center. September 8, 11am–12pm, SAC W107. Sweet Stops pop-up event Enjoy a sweet treat on us. September 8, 2pm–3pm. Commuter and Transfer Initiatives drop-in hours Have any questions? Stop by the Commuter Lounge on Mondays from 1:30–2:30pm. Can't make it? No problem! Contact the CTI Coordinator: Alyssa.Betts@louisville.edu AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Parent of the Year Award If your parent has made an impact on your life while here at UofL, you can nominate them to be Parent of the Year! The nomination period for the 2021–2022 Parent of the Year is now open. https://bit.ly/3kyKE54 UofL Soy Innovation Challenge 2021 Student teams from UofL, under the direction of Conn Center and UofL faculty mentors, will formulate and present concepts to create novel products or materials using soybeans and/or their components. Four to five will be awarded $2K-$3K seed money to develop those concepts. Preliminary concepts are due by September 15 at 11:59 pm. Full proposals are due December 12 at 11:59 pm. www.conncenter.org/soy-innovation-challenge-2021 CLUBS, GROUPS, & ORGANIZATIONS The White Squirrel interest meeting Are you interested in writing, reading, art, publishing, and/or design? Attend The White Squirrel interest meeting! No prior experience necessary; we need to build up a team, and we have open officer positions. The meeting will be Sept. 7 from 5:30 – 7 PM in The Honors House Lobby. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7256248 New RSO for Asian/Pacific islander students Asian Pacific Student Union is an upcoming RSO for any AAPI-identifying people and allies. We invite any interested students to come to our first informational meeting on September 7 at 6:00pm in the Diversity and Equity Center Multipurpose Room. We will discuss our goals for the year and plans for programming. SERVICE & LEADERSHIP raiseRED staff applications are open All students are welcome to apply for a leadership position within raiseRED. We offer a variety of positions! The applications will open Friday, September 10 and close Thursday, September 23 at 5 PM on Engage. Visit @raiseRED_uofl on Instagram for more details. WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS The Counseling Center is here for you The Counseling Center offers in-person and via telehealth using Microsoft Teams; mode of service provision may vary, and change based on clinician's professional opinion, student preference, and guidelines/policies from the University and the CDC. Hours are M–F 9am–5pm; urgent crisis consultation from 9am to 4pm—no appointment necessary. For list of services and resources on self-care, coping, and wellness, visit https://louisville.edu/counseling. To sign up for TAO, a self-paced, online, therapeutic tool; visit https://us.taoconnect.org/register and use UofL email address. Roster due dates for IM Sports! There are many deadlines to sign up your intramural teams this week. On September 8 at 4:30 P.M. the deadline for Flag Football, Canoe Regatta, Football Combine, and Track Meet are due. Make sure to sign up on IMLeagues.com/louisville Spikeball Club in the SRC Spikeball is our newest sports club in the SRC. The game features four-person matches of fast-paced quick bursts of action, development of hand/eye coordination, and teamwork skills. The club practices from 3:30-5:00pm Wednesdays on the SRC Turf Field. louisville.edu/intramurals/sports-clubs SRC to close Labor Day The Student Recreation Center will be closed Monday, September 6 in observance of Labor Day. The SRC will be open regular hours of operation Saturday and Sunday and will re-open at 6:30 AM Tuesday. Thank you in advance for your understanding and cooperation. HSC Fitness Center to close Labor Day The HSC Fitness Center will be closed Monday, September 6 in observance of Labor Day. The center will re-open Tuesday morning at 6:00 AM. We hope you enjoy a safe and happy Labor Day. Thank you in advance for your understanding and cooperation. JOB OPPORTUNITIES UofL Pool now hiring lifeguards The Ralph Wright Natatorium is currently seeking 10-15 responsible, hardworking lifeguards to join their staff. Come work at the university's indoor swimming pool! Interested parties should apply on handshake. ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I am having problems with my ULink account. Where do I go for help? A. The best way to get help is to connect with the IT HelpDesk. You can call (502) 852-7997, email helpdesk@louisville.edu, or visit http://louisville.edu/it/departments/consulting/helpdesk/ to connect with an IT specialist via chat. DID YOU KNOW? There are lockers you can rent at the Student Activities Center. To request one, go to: louisville.edu/sac/resources/locker-rental CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe