Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Programs & Degrees Faculty & Staff Alumni & Visitors Future Students Undergraduate BSN Program - Louisville BSN Program - Owensboro RN-BSN Online Program ADN to RN-BSN Concurrent Enrollment High School Direct Admission Guaranteed Early Admission Accelerated Programs Second-Degree BSN Second-Degree MEPN Graduate PhD in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice Post Graduate APRN Certificate Master of Science in Nursing Financial Tuition and Fees Financial Aid and Scholarships Assistantships Student Advising Office of Student Services Technology Laptop requirement Current Students Current Students Information Student Affairs Advising Cardinal Confidence Program Counseling Services Family Scholar House Tuition and Fees Bursar's Office Financial Aid Financial Aid and Scholarships Assistantships Admissions Undergrad BSN Program Upper Division Technology Laptop requirement CNA CNA for Clinical Compliance Simulation Clinical Simulation Center Commencement and Graduation Registrar’s Office Programs & Degrees Program & Degree Curriculums BSN - Louisville BSN - Owensboro Second-Degree BSN Second-Degree MEPN RN-BSN Online Program PhD in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice Master of Science in Nursing Post Graduate APRN Certificate Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Information Academic Calendar Continuing Education Programs Employment Faculty & Staff Directory Human Resources Nursing IT Learn more about Living in Louisville School of Nursing News Sigma Theta Tau Intl UofL Bookstore Alumni & Visitors Alumni & Visitors Information University of Louisville Alumni Association SON Alumni Email Giving to the SON Research Office of Nursing Research Research Faculty Directory Faculty Research Interests Funded Research Publications Office of Research Services Research Services Staff Research Opportunities Upcoming Events Study Recruitment Patient Care Kentucky Racing Health Services Center UofL Care Partners Professional Resources Outreach Community Outreach Information Office of Community Engagement and Diversity Inclusion International Learning for Nursing Students UofL Office of Diversity and Inclusion Giving Home/ News/ UofL expands program to prepare nurse anesthesia providers for Kentucky communities UofL expands program to prepare nurse anesthesia providers for Kentucky communities May 24, 2022 UofL Health collaboration brings first certified registered nurse anesthetist program to Louisville LOUISVILLE, Ky. – Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists (CRNAs) represent the majority of anesthesia providers in rural counties throughout the United States, and the University of Louisville’s School of Nursing is stepping up to offer a CRNA program to fill health care needs throughout Kentucky communities. In collaboration with UofL Health, the School of Nursing is expanding its Doctor of Nursing Practice program offerings to include a nurse anesthesia track. “The nurse anesthesia program will be the first in Louisville and will ensure a workforce of providers is available to safely administer anesthetics in the commonwealth,” said Sonya Hardin, dean of the School of Nursing. The 36-month DNP program prepares nurses to provide safe, competent and ethical anesthesia and anesthesia-related care. It will encompass a fully integrated curriculum model with simulation experiences in the first year along with didactic coursework that will prepare students to begin clinical engagement as soon as their third semester in the program. “This is an investment in our nursing team to enhance skills and offer new opportunities. It’s also another investment for our community,” said Shari Kretzschmer, UofL Health senior vice president of patient care services and chief nursing officer. “As UofL Health grows to meet our community needs, we know there is an increased need for more anesthesia practitioners.” Graduates will be prepared to take the national certification examination offered by the National Boards of Certification and Recertification of Nurse Anesthetists. “The UofL Nurse Anesthesia DNP program will blend high quality simulation, strong academic curriculum, and over 2,800 hours of extensive clinical training in some of Louisville’s top ranked hospitals. We are committed to fostering expertise in the art and science of anesthesia and excellence in leadership to ensure the future of our profession,” said Cheryl Parker, director of the Nurse Anesthesia Program. CRNAs have topped Gallup’s Honesty and Ethics list for multiple years and are among the top ten in the 2021 and 2022 U.S. News & World Report’s “Best Health Care Jobs” report. Those interested in the program must have a Bachelor of Science in Nursing, an unencumbered registered nursing license, CCRN certification, completed the GRE exam and a minimum of two-years, full-time experience in adult ICU, NICU or PICU. The School of Nursing has received approval from the Kentucky Board of Nursing, is currently seeking accreditation from the Council of Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Education Programs, and expects to receive accreditation prior to enrolling students. The school will begin accepting applications on October 15 and the first cohort is expected to start in August 2023. For more information about the program, visit the program’s website. Brandie Berry is a certified registered nurse anesthetist at UofL Health - Mary & Elizabeth Hospital in Louisville. A new program made possible by a collaboration of the UofL School of Nursing and UofL Health will be the first in Louisville to educate and train CRNAs. About UofL School of Nursing The School of Nursing is a community in which faculty, staff and students collaborate to promote excellence in the profession of nursing. As a citizen of the larger community, the School of Nursing places emphasis on addressing the complex health needs of diverse and dynamic populations through nursing education, research, scholarship and service. The School of Nursing's core values are compassion, curiosity, engagement, integrity, respect, innovation and accountability. About UofL Health UofL Health is a fully integrated regional academic health system with six hospitals, four medical centers, Brown Cancer Center, Eye Institute, nearly 200 physician practice locations and more than 800 providers. With more than 12,000 team members – physicians, surgeons, nurses, pharmacists and other highly-skilled health care professionals, UofL Health is focused on one mission: to transform the health of communities we serve through compassionate, innovative, patient-centered care. Get more news from UofL delivered straight to your inbox every Thursday evening by signing up for our UofL News Weekly Roundup here: uoflalumni.org/uoflnews-signup. Tweet School of Nursing Health Sciences Campus, K-Wing 555 South Floyd Street Suite 3019 Louisville, KY 40202 Visit If planning a visit, view our visitor information. Contact View contact information. 1-877-81-NURSE 502-852-5825 Email M-F 8:00 am to 5:00 pm No Weekend or Holiday Hours About About the School Office of the Dean Accreditation Directory Employment KBN Program Benchmark Giving Giving to the SON Social Media Facebook Twitter YouTube The bachelor of science in nursing, master of science in nursing, doctor of nursing practice, and APRN certificate programs at University of Louisville are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award associate, bachelor, master, specialist, doctoral, and first-professional degrees (D.M.D., J.D., M.D.). UofL Accreditation © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville