No images? Click here July 12, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Summer Virtual RSO Fair Discover unique opportunities. Find and attend events, browse and join organizations, and showcase your involvement. The fair is open through July 16. https://louisville.campuslabs. com/engage/event/7115293 UofL Counseling Center Ribbon Cutting and Open House The University Counseling Center will be hosting a Ribbon Cutting and Open House on August 27 at 3:15 p.m. at the Student Activities Center West Second Floor. Light refreshments will be provided. #BeWellUofL Proposed policy on international travel The university is proposing a revised policy on International Travel. This policy has been communicated to university stakeholders and leadership and is available for your comments until July 20, 2021. To provide policy feedback, email policies@louisville.edu. Attention AAPI Students We are conducting a University of Louisville IRB-approved study about your experience during the COVID-19 Pandemic. Please complete this brief survey: https://bit.ly/367PyyU SRC basketball court schedule SRC basketball courts will be closed at times to host summer camps. The 3rd floor courts are closed now through Sunday, July 18. The 1st floor courts will be closed Wednesday, July 14 through Sunday, July 18. All other areas remain open with normal operating hours. Martial Arts resume in the SRC Kempo Karate and Aikido have resumed practicing in the SRC. No experience or aptitude required, with professional instruction from certified teachers in a controlled, safe environment. Check our website for schedules and practice times. Flag Football is back After a year hiatus, Flag Football will be returning to the Intramural schedule. Sign up by September 8 on IMLeagues.com/louisville. Yoga at the SRC It’s always a great time to improve your physical and mental well-being. Join us in the SRC for Vinyasa Yoga with Liz and Shanon. We’re still going strong Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday each week through August 1, 2021. louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness/src-group-fitness Enjoy Garden Commons summer abundance It’s peak produce season at UofL. Stop by the Garden Commons, SW of Strickler Hall, to sample all the deliciousness of summer – blackberries, kale, basil, beans, cucumbers, flowers & more. All organic and grown for all to enjoy. Group workdays Fridays 12-1pm. louisville.edu/sustainability/operations/garden-commons Q. What is FERPA? A. The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (often referred to as FERPA, or the Buckley Amendment) requires that students have the right to inspect and review most education records maintained about them by the University of Louisville, and, in many cases, decide whether or not a third party may obtain information from them. No one will have access to a student's education records, nor will their contents be disclosed, without the written consent of the student, except as provided by the Act. For more info, visit: https://library.louisville.edu/archives/ferpa If you need assistance and don't know where to go, contact the Dean of Students office at 502-852-5787 or visit the office at W301 in the SAC. ALSO, look for which campus office can help with your question or need at UofL ConcernCenter: https://louisville.concerncenter.com/. CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe