Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Novel Coronavirus (nCoV2019) Navigation Home Communications and Updates 2021 Schedule of Vaccination events 2021 Sept 7-10 vaccination table Communications and UpdatesCommunications and Updates Dropdown Toggle 2021 Schedule of Vaccination events 2021 Sept 7-10 vaccination table Students Health Requirements and Procedures Spring 2022 Student Acknowledgement Statement 1.4.22 Final StudentsStudents Dropdown Toggle Health Requirements and Procedures Spring 2022 Student Acknowledgement Statement 1.4.22 Final Faculty Health Requirements and Procedures FacultyFaculty Dropdown Toggle Health Requirements and Procedures Employees Supervisors Health Requirements and Procedures Reopening Campus Committees EmployeesEmployees Dropdown Toggle Supervisors Health Requirements and Procedures Reopening Campus Committees Visitors Health Protocols UofL COVID Quarantine and Isolation Protocols Spring 2022 Health ProtocolsHealth Protocols Dropdown Toggle UofL COVID Quarantine and Isolation Protocols Spring 2022 Students Health Requirements and Procedures Spring 2022 Student Acknowledgement Statement 1.4.22 Final Home / Students Summer 2022 Information for Students This page contains student-specific information about the summer term. For information on COVID-19 vaccines, testing, quarantine, isolation and other campus protocols and procedures that apply to all university members, visit the Health Protocols tab. Categories Before you come to campus Attendance Graduate students Campus housing Contacts for support BEFORE YOU COME TO CAMPUS We look forward to spending the summer term with you, Cardinals. Prior to arriving or returning to campus this summer, we ask that you do the actions outlined below so we can maximize our campus community’s safety from the coronavirus and its variants. With all Cardinals doing their part, we can continue keeping campus a healthy and safe environment for all. Get vaccinated. We strongly encourage all Cardinals to get fully vaccinated before starting the semester with us. For information on how to schedule a vaccination or booster go to Get Vaccinated. Submit your out-of-state COVID-19 vaccination record if you were vaccinated outside of the state of Kentucky. Campus Health Services only has access to the Kentucky immunization registry. Please follow these instructions to upload your out-of-state COVID-19 vaccination documentation to the university's secure health portal. This information helps the university accurately monitor our university community's vaccination rate. Review the university’s health and safety protocols. Important details about UofL’s response to the pandemic are organized on this website and quick links to key information are provided on the homepage. Read the Health Protocols tab for details on our campus procedures and check out the FAQs for answers to common questions. Back to the top ATTENDANCE Students who feel unsafe attending in-person classes are encouraged to sign up for online courses. Options for making up work will be available when students are following our health and safety protocols by staying home when they have symptoms of COVID-19, when they've been instructed by health staff to quarantine due to an exposure, or when they are isolating due to a positive test. Students should review the continuity of learning plan in their course's syllabi or reach out to their instructor to request it. Back to the top GRADUATE STUDENTS Read the detailed guidelines for graduate students for an outline of UofL’s commitment to supporting funded graduate students under our COVID-19 response for the spring. Additionally, the Office of Research and Innovation has protocols for reducing COVID-19 exposure in the research environment. MORE INFORMATION Guidelines for graduate students Back to the top CAMPUS HOUSING Campus Housing is taking multiple actions to maintain a healthy residence hall environment. For specific information, visit the Campus Housing website. For questions on residential hall safety, resident health, resident isolation procedures and more, read the FAQs for Students. Back to the top CONTACTS FOR SUPPORT Call, email or live chat with the Business Operations COVID Support Team for questions or concerns about the university’s COVID-19 protocols. If you have concerns or obstacles — academic, financial or personal — please reach out to our student success team. Find your student success coordinator here or call 502-852-8097. Visit the Dean of Students Office website for support with student matters. Visit the Counseling Center website for mental health services. Back to the top Students Health Requirements and Procedures Spring 2022 Student Acknowledgement Statement 1.4.22 Final University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 (800) 334-UofL (8635) (502) 852-5555 twitterfacebookyoutubeinstagramlinkedin Be Prepared Learning remotely Teaching remotely Working remotely Travel info General Resources CDC: Coronavirus Situation Summary CDC: Prevention & Treatment CDC: FAQs KY Covid-19 Resources UofL Research Information Support UofL Students and Research Questions? UofL Question Center © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville