[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Bachelor's Degree Programs / Online Bachelor of Early Childhood Education /-/images/pages/ece/2010_BSOLL-ECE_1596x740.jpg Excel as a leader in early childhood education ece ece-program-page organic ../programs/bachelors/bsoll-early-childhood-education?tab=apply Veronica Johnson Online Enrollment Counselor Online Early Childhood Education Track: Bachelor of Science in Organizational Leadership & Learning The online Early Childhood Education (ECE) track is designed to prepare early childcare professionals to deliver high-quality, effective and diverse education to young learners in Pre-K classrooms. The University of Louisville’s bachelor’s Organizational Leadership & Learning: Early Childhood Education track enables you to help at-risk learners in low-income or impoverished communities by developing your core education knowledge and communication skills—allowing you to work with children as well as their families or caretakers. You will gain proven interdisciplinary early childhood education expertise and learn to apply practical knowledge through the program’s commitment to three pillars. If you’re looking to start or advance your career as a childcare professional, preschool teacher, infant-toddler teacher, teaching assistant, Head Start teacher, a center director, or in other interdisciplinary early childhood education areas, our program can help you get there. This program is offered through the College of Education and Human Development (CEHD) at the University of Louisville. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Highlights Develop your understanding of child development in education and discover how you can help children create positive social relationships while also learning the ins and outs of day-to-day facility administration operations. Turn your prior experience and work knowledge as an early childcare professional into college credit with our Prior Learning Assessment. Move through your coursework in the student-preferred timeframe of 8 weeks per course. Get started on your degree as soon as you’re ready with 5 available starts per year. Transfer in your associate degree or other earned credit from accredited institutions or earn the entire degree at UofL. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes and 24/7 access to learning tools. 5 available start times per year. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Transfer Credit If you previously started a bachelor's degree but didn't finish, UofL's online organizational leadership and learning bachelor's is designed to help you achieve degree completion. Transfer up to 60 hours from a community college and up to 90 hours from an accredited 4-year college. You can also take all your general education requirements online at UofL! UofL Academic Advisers are available to assist with your degree planning. Are you a KCTCS student? Students who have been enrolled at a KCTCS school and have fulfilled all general education requirements can have them transferred in their entirety and may begin immediately with online upper level coursework at UofL. Visit our KCTCS Transfers Page for more information. Credit for Prior Learning In the first online core course, LEAD 300 Prior Learning Assessment, you will work very closely with program faculty to build an academic portfolio by documenting your on-the-job learning and previous work experiences and other specialized training. With this portfolio, you could earn up to 48 credit hours toward your degree at no cost (equivalent of up to 16 courses). 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this program on your own time through fully online classes. Learn More Save Up To $24kIN TUITION Save up to $24,384 in tuition for your workplace learning and training, with a Prior Learning Assessment (PLA). Learn More 12 ECE CREDITS Earn a bachelor’s degree and gain ECE credentials at the same time. "The Interdisciplinary Early Childhood track provides an exciting opportunity for early childhood professionals to pursue their bachelor's degree while also receiving acknowledgement - and college credit - for their experience and knowledge in the field of early childhood education." Janey Andris, Ph.D. Program Lead What can I do with a degree in Early Childhood Education? Early Childhood Education degrees give you the education you need to start or advance your career in interdisciplinary early childhood education areas including: Childcare professional Childcare center director Preschool teacher Infant-toddler teacher Teaching assistant Kentucky Head Start teacher Numerous graduates also pursue careers as childcare directors. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the 2020 average salary for a director was $49,160. Earning your bachelor's degree can prepare you as a leader in your organization and provide you with access to higher pay, greater job security and a path to teacher certification. UofL’s early childhood education track within the bachelor’s in organizational leadership and learning is designed specifically to be a quicker and more affordable pathway to a degree for early childhood professionals by delivering tuition-free college credit based on past work experience. How can I use this program as a stepping stone to become a certified teacher? Graduates of this program can earn teaching certification through UofL by completing their Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) in Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education. UofL’s online MAT in Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education is an alternative certification program to get a jump start on your career. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall I August October 1 Fall II October December 1 Spring I January February 1 Spring II Late February May 1* Summer May Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete the undergraduate application for admission $25 non-refundable application fee Submit official college transcripts from all previously attended accredited institutions* Check for Scholarships Note: Electronic transcripts are only accepted directly from the institution(s). Please have electronic transcripts sent to adetran@louisville.edu. * See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements A minimum undergraduate GPA of 2.25, on a 4.0 scale, is required to be admitted in good standing. Those with a 2.0 - 2.24 GPA may be admitted conditionally. Those with less than a 2.0 college GPA may petition the college for admission, and those petitions will be assessed on a case by case basis by the admissions committee. Child Development Associate Credential (CDA) preferred, but not required for admission Minimum age: 22 years old Prior education: 24 college credit hours or more completed prior to applying For more information about the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselors at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. The online B.S. in Organizational Leadership and Learning track in Early Childhood Education is a 120-credit hour program, which requires up to 29 hours of major coursework in leadership and learning as well as 12 hours of specialized study in ECE. Course List Hours Early Childhood Education Track Courses 12 EDSP 427 Inquiry into Early Childhood Education and Child Development 3 EDSP 435 Administration and Consultation in Early Childhood 3 EDSP 438 Emergent Curriculum 3 EDSP 439 Guidance of Young Children 3 General Education Requirements 31 OLL Major Core Courses 24-29 LEAD 300 Prior Learning Assessment (take within the first year) 3 LEAD 311 Needs Assessment 3 LEAD 316 Instructional Strategies and Group Facilitation Techniques 3 LEAD 341 Managing Projects in the Workplace 3 LEAD 411 Human Resource Fundamentals 3 LEAD 442 Supporting Organizational Change 3 LEAD 540 Program Exit Experience (Culminating Undergraduate Experience/Practicum) 3-8 LEAD 578 Workplace and Information Ethics 3 Work Specialization (Credit hours needed will vary based on hours earned through the Prior Learning Assessment portfolio process) 9-48 LEAD 290 Occupational Subjects 2-42 LEAD 291 Occupational Learning 2-42 LEAD 390 Advanced Occupational Subjects 2-18 LEAD 391 Advanced Occupational Experiences 2-18 Elective Requirements (Credit hours needed will vary based on transfer credit and hours earned through the Prior Learning Assessment portfolio process ) 5-44 Total Required Credit Hours 120 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Featured Faculty Can I enroll in the program if I still have General Education courses to complete? Yes, as long as you have been admitted to the College of Education & Human Development and the Organizational Leadership and Learning degree program. The academic counselor will work with you to identify the necessary courses and options. Will I pay UofL tuition for the credits I am awarded from my work experience? No, you will earn those credits free of charge! In other words, by completing the LEAD 300 Prior Learning Assessment course (which is a 3-credit hour class at normal tuition cost), and submitting a completed portfolio in which you will document and validate your work experience (i.e. on-the-job training, professional development, etc.) and/or military and/or industry training. Is there a part-time option? Yes, you can complete this program as a part-time student. Do I have to have my Child Development Associate (CDA) credential? The CDA credential is preferred when applying to the B.S. OLL ECE online program, but it is not required for the acceptance into the program. That said, if you do have your CDA, you can earn college credit for it as part of the Prior Learning Assessment (PLA). Does this program lead to teacher certification? No, this program does not lead to any certifications. Graduates will earn their bachelor’s degree only. Teachers within the state of Kentucky are required to have a certification to teach in K-12 classrooms. If you are outside of the state of Kentucky, consult the licensing board in your state for more information about regulations that may apply to you. If you are interested in adding on teaching certification after you complete this bachelor’s degree, we do offer a Master of Arts in Teaching. Is there a GPA requirement for admission? Yes, you must have a minimum of GPA of 2.25 (on a 4.0 scale) to be considered for admission to the program unconditionally. If you do not have a 2.25 GPA, you can be accepted provisionally. The Admissions Committee will assess applications on a case-by-case basis, carefully considering all qualifications. Is this program suitable for me as an out-of-state student? Yes, this program is applicable to students in other states. Is this program open to international students? Yes, this program is available for international students. Can I transfer in credits? Yes, you can transfer up to 60 hours from a regionally accredited community college and up to 90 hours from a regionally accredited 4-year college. We recommend that you have a transcript evaluation completed to understand how many transfer credits will count toward your degree. I’m a KCTCS Student, is there a transfer pathway for me? Check out the transfer pathways available from our KCTCS Transfer Page for more information. How long are the courses? The courses are offered in an 8-week format with the exception of LEAD 540. Does this program have a student teaching requirement? No, there is no student teaching required for this degree. The B.S. OLL ECE track does not require student teaching because it is not a teacher certification program. If you are interested in a program that leads to teacher certification, contact Betty Hampton at betty.hampton@louisville.edu. Application to the teacher certification programs requires a passing score on the PRAXIS CASE exam. The BS OLL in early childhood does not require any entrance or exit exams because it is not a teacher certification program. Can I take summer classes? Yes, you can take summer courses. However, none of the ECE track-specific courses are currently available during the summer term. Are there any scholarships available? Scholarships available for students who qualify. Check out our Scholarships page to learn more. Overview Outcomes Admissions COURSES TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link