[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Applied Geospatial Technologies Certificate /-/images/pages/agt/2010_UC-AGT_1596x740.jpg Your map to more. agt agt-program-page organic ../../programs/certificate-programs/transportation-engineering?tab=apply Chester Morton Online Enrollment Counselor Online Applied Geospatial Technologies Certificate The online Certificate in Applied Geospatial Technologies is designed for anyone looking for credentials to help them build or grow a career in geographic mapping and analysis. Offered by the College of Arts & Sciences at the University of Louisville, this program is designed to teach students how to apply techniques of geographic information science (GIS) and collect, view, manipulate and analyze digital geographic data for a deeper understanding of the world around us. Through an introduction to GIS and hands-on experience using ArcGIS software, you will learn how to connect data sets to landscapes and communities, and provide insights about real-world environmental conditions and social problems. Overview Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid This certificate does not qualify for financial aid. Highlights Acquire skills in computing, problem-solving and project management that will be of use throughout your professional career in the applied geospatial technologies field. Discover state-of-the-art methods and techniques within the field. Learn from expert faculty who are actively advancing the field through research in Environmental Remote Sensing, GIS, Spatial Analysis and Modeling. Join a reputable program from a nationally-recognized metropolitan research university. Connect and network with professionals across the industry. Take advantage of 100% online courses and 24/7 class access. Get a jumpstart on a bachelor’s degree—all credits earned in this program can be applied toward a bachelor’s degree from the Department of Geography and Geosciences at the University of Louisville. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete the certificate on your own time through fully online classes. Learn More 15 CREDIT HOURS Take only 5 courses to earn your certificate. Learn More 1 YEAR TO COMPLETION This online program can be finished in just under a year! What exactly is geospatial tech? Read more about the technology and what our online certificate could mean for your future. READ MORE: New Online Geospatial Tech Certificate Could Be Your Map to More Outcomes The Certificate in Applied Geospatial Technologies is relevant in a wide range of fields including but not limited to: Business economics Defense industry Environmental resource management Landscape architecture Law enforcement Local government Political science Public health Surveying and cartography Urban planning Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May/June Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete the Take Flight (undergraduate) application (select Post-Bac or Visiting Student > College Visitor, when prompted) Submit $25 non-refundable application fee Submit ACT score or college transcripts (as applicable) Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements High school diploma from an accredited institution (GED or equivalent accepted by petition) Minimum high school GPA of 2.5 Completion of pre-college curriculum Composite ACT score of 20 or higher For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. Start Your Application The online Certificate in Applied Geospatial Technologies is a 15 credit hour program that requires 6 credit hours in core courses and 9 credit hours in electives. Students must complete required courses for the certificate with a GPA of 2.75 or above. Core Courses Course List Hours GEOG 350 Introduction to Mapping and Geospatial Technologies 3 GEOG 558 Introduction to GIS 3 Total 6 Elective Courses Course [choose 3] Hours GEOG 355 Introduction to Remote Sensing 3 GEOG 356 Introduction to Spatial Statistics 3 GEOG 385 Introduction to Programming for GIS and Spatial Data Analysis 3 GEOG 531 GIS and Urban Demographic Analysis 3 GEOG 556 Advanced Remote Sensing 3 GEOG 559 Advanced GIS 3 GEOS 571 GIS and Water Resources 3 GEOG 590 Web Mapping 3 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Overview Admissions Degree Tracks TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link