[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Certificate in Accounting /-/images/pages/acct/2010_ACCTC_1596x740.jpg Develop expertise in accounting. acctc acct-program-page organic ../../programs/certificate-programs/accounting?tab=apply Veronica Johnson Online Enrollment Counselor Online Certificate in Accounting UofL's online Certificate in Accounting is designed for individuals who want to gain new accounting skills to start or advance a career in the field, and/or support the needs of their business. Are you thinking about a career change? Working with financial information and need a better understanding of how that information is created and can be presented to others? Looking for a credential that can help you gain promotions and credibility with your clients or customers? Have a bachelor's degree and need the accounting expertise and credits to sit for the CPA exam? UofL's online Certificate in Accounting delivers in the knowledge needed to pursue or grow a successful career in the accounting field. The program consists of 9 core accounting courses, covering key areas including financial accounting, managerial accounting, taxation, information systems, and auditing. All of the courses are offered in a fully online format, without restrictive class meeting times—meaning you have the flexibility you need to balance work and life with advancing your accounting education. The Certificate in Accounting Program is offered 100% online by the University of Louisville’s School of Accountancy. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this certificate on your own time through fully online coursework and learning tools. Learn More 27 CREDIT HOURS Complete only 9 courses to earn your certificate. See courses tab for more detail. Learn More 3-4 SEMESTERS Complete the program in as little as 3-4 semesters. How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid This certificate does not qualify for financial aid. Highlights Gain the skills to pursue accounting, financial and managerial roles across the business landscape. Complete the program in 3-4 semesters. Build your knowledge of “the language of business." Learn on your schedule, study and prepare anywhere, at any time with 100% online coursework. Gain the accounting credits you need to sit for the CPA exam.* START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION *The 9 courses (27 credit hours) that make up the curriculum provide sufficient accounting credit hours for eligibility to sit for the Kentucky CPA exam. A bachelor's degree and an additional 12 credit hours of business courses are also required. Visit the National Association of State Boards of Accounting for more information on KY and other state CPA exam requirements or view our licensing information here. What career opportunities does a Certificate in Accounting offer? The demand for CPAs, accountants, auditors, and financial specialists across all industries is rapidly increasing. Employment of accountants and auditors is expected to grow 11% through 2024, which is 4% faster than the average for all occupations (bls.gov). Globalization of businesses is also leading to more opportunities for accountants in international trade and business. The certificate can prepare you for a career in public accounting, as well as for entry-level accounting roles in for-profit, not-for-profit, and governmental organizations. These roles include, but aren't limited to staff accountant, auditor, tax accountant, and budget analyst. Many individuals begin their careers in accounting, but eventually pursue executive and managerial leadership roles, because accountants often have a strong understanding of the "language of business". With a bachelor's degree and additional 12 business credit hours, you can also pursue a career as a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) in Kentucky. To review CPA exam requirements in other states, visit the National Association of State Boards of Accounting. Additionally, if you're a small business owner or work for a non-profit, and you don't have the funds to hire a CPA or other accounting professional to handle your accounting needs, this certificate is an ideal program for you or someone from your staff to complete, earning the expertise and skills to manage these areas. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date May 4 Summer May 11 August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete online undergraduate application Submit $25 non-refundable application fee Transfer up to 12 credit hours of coursework from an AACSB accredited college or university (optional)* Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Looking for a bachelor's degree? Check out our Bachelor's in Accountancy, which is designed to deliver essential accounting knowledge to working business professionals looking to sit for their CPA or start/grow a career in accounting. Admission Requirements Complete ACCT 201 and 202 with a minimum cumulative GPA of 2.7 (on a 4.0 scale) (B-) in those courses If you have not completed these courses by the time of application, you will be conditionally admitted into the program until the above requirements are met. Once these requirements are met, you will be fully admitted to the program. * See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. Licensing Disclosure The Certificate in Accounting program at the University of Louisville is designed to help provide sufficient accounting credit hours to sit for the CPA exam in Kentucky. Please note that Kentucky requires a bachelor's degree as well as an additional 12 credit hours of business courses to qualify for the CPA exam. Out-of-state candidates who are interested in this program should be advised that we cannot guarantee that this program will meet licensure, salary, advancement or other requirements in their state. We strongly recommend contacting your state licensing board to determine your state’s requirements and ensure this program will meet your professional goals before enrolling in this program. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. Courses Hours ACCT 201 Principles of Financial Accounting 3 ACCT 202 Principles of Managerial Accounting 3 ACCT 301 Intermediate Accounting I 3 ACCT 302 Intermediate Accounting II 3 ACCT 310 Introduction to Accounting Information Systems 3 ACCT 315 Introduction to Taxation 3 ACCT 320 Managerial Cost Accounting 3 ACCT 430 Auditing Theory and Practice 3 SELECT ONE [1] OF THE FOLLOWING COURSES ACCT 353 Accounting for Not-For-Profit Organizations ACCT 401 Advanced Accounting Problems ACCT 411 Advanced Accounting Information Systems - CUE ACCT 415 Advanced Taxation ACCT 420 Advanced Managerial Cost Accounting 3 Total 27 Required courses are offered each fall and spring semester. Some courses may be also offered in the summer sessions. Students may retake one course without additional charge. Other electives are available on-campus. The shown requirements are effective Fall 2021 and will be reflected in the University’s Academic Catalog 2021-2022. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Is the Certificate in Accounting Program a prep course for the CPA exam? Yes and no. This program is not designed or delivered specifically as a prep course for the CPA exam. However, our certificate program does provide much of the knowledge and the 27 hours of accounting coursework required by Kentucky to sit for the CPA exam. Many students choose to complete a CPA review course (such as the Becker or Gleim CPA review courses) to prepare for the CPA exam. Additional fees apply. Please note that Kentucky requires a bachelor's degree and an additional 12 credit hours of business courses to qualify for the CPA exam. What are the benefits of online learning at University of Louisville? The UofL online program allows you to earn your certificate from any location, as long as you have an Internet connection. This flexible learning format is perfect if you are balancing your full-time career, school, and personal life. You will also have opportunities to network with students from a broad range of business backgrounds, and be included in UofL’s network of alumni. Can I complete the Certificate in Accounting completely online? Yes, the program is available 100% online. How does the online certificate program differ from the on-campus program? The online and on-campus programs are the same or very similar. The curriculum between the two is identical, and the online courses are led by the same faculty as on-campus courses. Additionally, you will use the same book and do many of the same assignments as on-campus students. The only significant difference is the online delivery method, which allows you to obtain your certificate in a way that better suits your lifestyle and schedule. Can I transfer credits from another college or university? Students may transfer up to 12 credit hours from an AACSB accredited college or university. Are scholarships available for the Certificate in Accounting program? At this time, no scholarships are available. However, some employers may provide support through tuition reimbursement programs. Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link