[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Certificate in Autism and Applied Behavior Analysis /-/images/pages/autism/2010_GC-AABA_1596x740.jpg Create a better world for all learners. autism abba-program-page organic ../../programs/certificate-programs/graduate-certificate-in-autism-and-applied-behavior-analysis?tab=apply Erin Elrod Online Enrollment Counselor Online Certificate in Autism and Applied Behavior Analysis The online graduate certificate in Autism and Applied Behavior Analysis is designed for bachelor’s degree holders with professional experience in a field related to autism, who want to better prepare to serve the learning community. Offered by the College of Education and Human Development at the University of Louisville, the Autism and Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate aims to produce behavioral practitioners who are knowledgeable in their science, effective in their practice, ethical in their interactions and committed to bettering the lives of students with disabilities. In this program, you will learn to apply strategies and tactics grounded in the principles of behavioral science to a variety of contexts, with specific focus placed on the assessment and treatment of individuals with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD). Overview Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid This certificate qualifies for financial aid. Highlights Gain advanced knowledge in autism research and behavioral analysis approaches as they relate to skill development and the treatment of challenging behavior in children with ASD. Learn from faculty comprised of instructors, researchers, and practitioners with a wealth of experience in the science and practice of behavior analysis. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes. 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this program on your own time through fully online classes. Learn More 18 CREDIT HOURS Earn this specialized certificate in just 6 courses (18 credit hours). Learn More 1 YEAR TO COMPLETE Complete this certificate in just over a year. Autism is a complex disorder that creates a wide spectrum of communication and social-interaction impediments. The reported increase in the number of children with autism (1.47% nationwide) suggests a growing demand for qualified professionals who specialize in autism. The job outlook for the next decade indicates a substantial growth in the availability of positions for behavior analysts. Outcomes Earning your Autism and Applied Behavior Analysis Certificate better prepares you to meet this growing need and pursue job advancements in teaching, psychology, social work, speech pathology or healthcare. Careers may include: Autism intervention specialist Autism research coordinator Behavioral intervention specialist Behavior health clinician Special education teacher Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May/June Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete application for admission $40 non-refundable application fee Submit official transcripts of all undergraduate and graduate work Submit GRE scores Submit 2 recommendation forms from faculty or supervisors familiar with your work START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution* Minimum 2.75 cumulative GPA on 4.0 scale Minimum GRE scores of 147 Verbal and 142 Quantitative are required for unconditional admission If GRE was completed before August 1, 2011, a minimum combined (verbal and quantitative) score of 800 is required for unconditional admission Professional certification/license/other qualified experience in a field related to autism (e.g., special education, psychology, speech language pathology, occupational therapy, or social work). Waiver of this requirement is approved by the program director on a case-by-case basis. Course prerequisites (students may be admitted conditionally before completing): Taken within three years with a grade of “B” or better EDSP 644 Applied Behavior Analysis EDSP 570 Autism: Introduction and Understanding *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu If you live outside of the United States, be sure to view special requirements for international students. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. Start Your Application The online graduate certificate in Autism and Applied Behavior Analysis is an 18 credit hour program broken down into 2 sets of 4 courses, a midpoint point assessment and an exit assessment. Core Courses Course List Hours EDSP 671 Autism: Methods and Teaching Strategies 3 EDSP 669 Single Subject Research Methods and Designs 3 EDSP 546 AAC and a Behavior Analytic Approach to Communication 3 Midpoint Assessment EDSP 650 Advanced Applied Behavior Analysis 3 EDSP 651 Professional and Ethical Practice of Applied Behavior Analysis 3 EDSP 673 Research Seminar in Autism Spectrum Disorder 3 Exit Assessment Total 18 Course Descriptions Featured Faculty View the full list of Special Education faculty here. Overview Admissions Degree Tracks TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link