Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Religious Life Navigation Home For many students, attending college marks the first time away from their home or religious community. This can be a unique time of asking questions, seeking new answers to old questions, and developing a faith community apart from your family. No matter your faith tradition, you can find a faith-based recognized student organization (RSO) on campus to help you grow in or explore your beliefs. The Religious Life Association (RLA) is a diverse group of faith-based RSOs with religious advisors/ministers who come alongside students to provide mentorship and spiritual direction. We share with the University of Louisville a commitment to the pursuit of a vibrant campus life and the holistic development of persons: spiritually, physically, intellectually, emotionally, and socially. The campus ministries that are a part of the RLA are listed below. Many other faith-based groups are active at UofL, though they are not part of the RLA. You can find a comprehensive list of RSOs in Engage. If you have questions, email Brian Hinton, the RLA convener, or Heather Gentry, the University Liaison to the RLA. Baptist Campus Ministry Website - Baptist Campus Ministry Website Description - The Baptist Campus Ministry (BCM) is a Christian organization providing opportunities for Christian growth and fellowship. It also seeks to be a witness for Jesus Christ on campus. The BCM is not a club with membership requirements or dues. People become involved by participating in programs interesting to them. Everyone is invited to be involved in any program! Campus Outreach Website - Campus Outreach Website Email - Email Campus Outreach Description - Campus Outreach exists to multiply Christ-Like disciples for the glory of God. Feel free to learn more online or by coming to one of our weekly gatherings or small groups. Catholic Campus Ministry Website - Catholic Campus Ministry Website Email - Email Catholic Campus Ministry Description - The Catholic Campus Ministry at UofL is a Newman Center - a place to encounter the love of Jesus Christ, go to Mass on Sundays and during the week, hang out, have a free dinner, meet new friends, and learn more about the Bible and living out our faith. We carry on the tradition of student centered ministry begun by Cardinal Newman in 1851. We also treasure our uniquely Roman Catholic spiritual heritage centered on the Eucharist, the compatibility of faith and reason, community, mission, and service. The community gathers for Mass each Sunday at 5:00 PM in the Interfaith Center followed by a community dinner, and there are student-led small groups, Bible studies, and social activities throughout the week and hikes, retreats, conferences, and trips each semester to help you grow closer to God and your brothers and sisters in Christ. Cru Website - Cru Website Email - Email Cru Description - Campus Crusade for Christ (Cru) is a Christian organization dedicated to reaching our campus. We hope to provide students with an awareness of Christian beliefs through studying the Bible, meeting together regularly, talking about who Christ is, and having fellowship with other believers. We are captivated by Christ and compelled to make Him known on our campus and across the world through our mission of win, build, send. The Gathering Website - The Gathering Website Email - Email The Gathering Description - The Gathering is a community of students committed to impacting our campus by living life passionately, engaging in uplifting spiritual conversations, and inspiring others with authenticity to follow the way of Jesus. You can join our tribe for a free meal, encouraging Bible study, and engaging spiritual conversations (Thursdays at 7:00 pm, SAC W117). To learn more about what we do and who we are, visit our website or email us. Hillel Website - Hillel Website Email - Email Hillel Description - Hillel serves students who identify with the Jewish faith on multiple campuses in Louisville and Southern Indiana that include University of Louisville, Bellarmine University, Spalding University, Jefferson Community and Technology College, and Indiana University Southeast. Our mission is “Enriching the lives of Jewish students so that they may enrich the Jewish people and the world.” Our vision is “We envision a world where every student is inspired to make an enduring commitment to Jewish life, learning and Israel.” Immanuel College Collective Website - Immanuel College Collective Website Email - Email Immanuel College Collective Description - The Collective is the college ministry of Immanuel Baptist Church. We exist to help students grow and thrive as Christians on the UofL campus. Some our key values are Community, Fellowship and Biblical teaching. We accomplish these things through out Thursday large gatherings (6:30), weekly discipleship groups and regular hangout times. There is no formal membership and all are welcomed. We look forward to seeing you soon. Latter-Day Saint Student Association Website - Latter-Day Saint Student Association Website Description - The Latter-Day Saint Student Association (Institute) invites all to balance their secular education with their spiritual endeavors. Each semester, we offer scripture study classes and activities which allow for learning, fun and fellowship with like-minded students. Our constant focus is on Jesus Christ and the gospel that He has restored. Reformed University Fellowship Website - Reformed University Fellowship Website Email - Email Reformed University Fellowship Description - RUF is a place to gather with friends, ask questions about faith and life, and rest in the good news of the gospel in order to grow in our love for God and love for others. We meet weekly for large group, and gather in small groups throughout the semester. You are welcome here, whether you are convinced of Christianity or just have questions. Come get connected! Sojourn College Website - Sojourn College Website Email - Email Sojourn College Description - Sojourn College is the college ministry of Sojourn Community Church. We desire to share God’s hope and love with our campus, help student grow in their faith as part of a multigenerational multiethnic church, and prepare them to be lifelong disciples who make disciples. Young Life Website - Young Life Website Description - A safe place for college students to grow and deepen their faith, ask questions, and meet some great friends. Also the place to be if you're interested in learning more about Young Life or becoming a YL leader in Louisville. Other Places of Worship NOTE: This site is hosted and maintained by the Division of Student Affairs/Dean of Students office which serves as a liaison to the Religious Life Association. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville