[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Healthcare Leadership Certificate /-/images/pages/hclc/HCLC_HEADER_1596x740.png Propel your leadership career forward hclc hclc-program-page organic ../../programs/certificate-programs/online-healthcare-leadership-certificate?tab=apply Veronica Johnson Online Enrollment Counselor Online Healthcare Leadership Certificate The online undergraduate Healthcare Leadership (HCL) Certificate is designed to prepare students with project management, finance, HR and quality evaluation skills to positively impact their organization and the healthcare system, and advance their career. UofL’s online certificate in Healthcare Leadership prepares you to stand out as you aspire to new roles, enriching your ability to lead and manage in a variety of healthcare settings. You’ll learn to navigate organizational challenges, drive change, and improve performance metrics while also expanding your decision-making skills and becoming more confident in your abilities as a manager and leader. The online certificate is offered by the College of Education and Human Development (CEHD) at the University of Louisville. Overview Application Courses FAQ Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Work Ready KY Scholarship Available for Online HCL Certificate Students Complete your application as soon as possible to be considered for this KHEAA opportunity. LEARN MORE This certificate does not qualify for financial aid. Highlights Stay relevant and build confidence in your skills and abilities with courses covering management fundamentals, HR, finance, accounting and quality evaluation. Go even further: certificate credit hours can be applied towards UofL’s Bachelor of Science in Organizational Leadership and Learning. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes and 24/7 access to learning tools. Learn from world-class faculty who have extensive experience in the field. Move through your coursework in an accelerated 8-week timeframe. Graduate within 1 semester (full-time students). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this program on your own time through fully online classes. Learn More 12 CREDIT HOURS This certificate consists of only 4 highly-specialized courses. Learn More $508 PER CREDIT HOUR Take advantage of UofL’s military-friendly rate of $250 per credit hour (for active duty). Learn More "Healthcare is an ever-evolving field, and the demand for quality leadership will continue to grow. The HCL Certificate is designed for healthcare workers who want to accelerate their growth potential and make a real impact in their organizations." Tara McKinley, Ph.D Program Director Outcome Healthcare occupations are projected to grow 15% by 2029, adding about 2.4 million jobs – which is much faster than the average for all occupations (bls.gov). The UofL Healthcare Leadership certificate prepares you to be part of this growth, helping you advance your career in health administration and/or healthcare management roles as well as clinic, service and department level positions in public or private healthcare organizations. Roles vary by industry, level and sector, including: Clinic manager/administrator Community health operations manager Health insurance manager Health systems specialist Healthcare process administrator Healthcare logistics manager Healthcare organization manager Military healthcare, operations manager/director Nursing supervisor Pharmacy, lab, radiology administrator Public health manager Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall I August October 1 Fall II October December 1 Spring I January February 1 Spring II Late February May 1 Summer May Steps to Apply Complete the Take Flight (undergraduate) application (select Post-Bac or Visiting Student > College Visitor, when prompted) $25 non-refundable application fee Submit official college transcripts from all previous institutions Submit current resume Check for Scholarships Note: Electronic transcripts are only accepted directly from the institution(s). Please have electronic transcripts sent to adetran@louisville.edu. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission in good standing requires: Minimum undergraduate GPA of 2.7 to be admitted in good standing (applicants with a 2.0 - 2.69 GPA may inquire about conditional admission) 1 year of work experience in a healthcare leadership or related role Not meeting the admission requirements? If you do not meet one or more admission requirement(s), you may submit a petition for admission requirement waiver within the application form, in conjunction with all other application materials, explaining 1) how this program fits in your career planning and 2) why the unmet requirement(s) will not be a barrier to success in this program. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselors at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. The online Undergraduate Certificate in Healthcare Leadership is a 12-credit hour program. All courses are delivered online through 8-week terms. Course List Hours LEAD 309 Managing Projects in Healthcare Organizations 3 LEAD 410 Fundamentals of Healthcare Human Resource Management 3 LEAD 430 Healthcare Finance and Accounting 3 LEAD 432 Healthcare Quality Evaluation 3 Total Minimum Required Credit Hours 12 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Is there a part-time and a full-time option? Yes, you can complete this program as either a part-time or a full-time student. As a part-time student, you can take more time to complete the program. As a full-time student, it is possible to complete this certificate in just one semester by taking all 12 credit hours at the same time! I don’t have a 2.25 GPA, could I be accepted provisionally? Yes, provisional admission is possible. The Admissions Committee will assess applications on a case-by-case basis, carefully considering all qualifications. Is the online leadership in healthcare certificate suitable for me as an out-of-state student? Yes, this program is applicable to students nationwide. Students can apply and enroll to UofL’s online programs, including this HR certificate from anywhere in the world. Out-of-state online students pay the same tuition rates as in-state students, which provides great savings. Is UofL’s online certificate program for healthcare administrators open to international students? Yes, the online Healthcare Leadership certificate program is open to international students. Please view our international admissions requirements for more information. Are there any additional fees outside of tuition? No, there are no additional fees. However, you will need to purchase the textbooks specific to your chosen courses. Can I transfer in credits? No, transfer credits are not accepted for the certificate program. All 12 credits required in this program must be completed at UofL. How long are the courses? The courses are offered in an accelerated 8-week format, allowing you to focus on one discipline at a time. Can I take summer classes? Yes, classes are offered year-round including summer. Can I take some classes on campus if I want? No. All Healthcare Leadership Certificate courses are delivered in a 100% online format. These courses are not offered on-campus at this time. I don’t have a bachelor’s degree. Do I need one to be admitted to this program? No, this program is an undergraduate certificate and does not require a bachelor’s degree for admission, though you do need at least 1 year of work experience. Once you successfully complete the certificate, you can apply the credits earned in the certificate program towards your B.S. in Organizational Leadership and Learning degree. Can I apply the certificate credits towards my bachelor’s degree? Yes, once you successfully complete the certificate, you can apply the earned credits towards your B.S. in Organizational Leadership and Learning degree. Overview Admissions Courses TEAM FAQs 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link