[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Bachelor's Degree Programs / Online Bachelor of Arts in Political Science /-/images/pages/bapols/BAPOLS_HEADER_1596x740.jpg Shift the political conversation. bapols bapols-program-page organic ../../programs/bachelors/online-bachelor-of-arts-in-political-science/?tab=apply Chester Morton Online Enrollment Counselor Online Bachelor of Arts in Political Science Designed for working professionals looking to start or advance their career in political science by gaining expertise in areas related to policy, politics and governments in the United States as well as around the world. Public policy. Political parties. Presidential campaigns. Voting behaviors. Civil rights revolutions. Global relations. Taxes. Diplomacy. Governance. Cultivate your understanding of these concepts, as well as key political and government principles, and more with an online bachelor’s in Political Science. Learn how these areas impact our society, government, education system, workplaces, and communities—then prepare to leave your mark in the field of political science. With an emphasis on research, data collection, critical analysis and clear communication in writing and speaking, graduates will be prepared for a variety of careers in the public, private, and non-profit sectors, as well as be ready to pursue advanced education. Our UofL graduates go on to challenging jobs in government, campaigns, the nonprofit sector, law, public policy, academics, and business, both in the U.S. and abroad. The online B.A. in Political Science is offered by the College of Arts & Sciences at the University of Louisville. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Highlights Explore how issues related to power, conflict, and justice within our political systems, policies, government and society impact future change. Study theories of government and the development of political systems along with the role of groups and individuals within the political process. Earn a highly marketable and sought-after degree in as little as 2 years with transfer credits—on your time and schedule with 100% online classes. Complete coursework in the four major subfields of political science (American Politics, Comparative Politics, International Relations and Political Theory) and take supporting courses in specific topics like campaigns and elections, the Presidency and Congress, social movements and civil rights, terrorism and war, constitutional law, environmental policy, religious politics, urban politics, and international politics. Learn from distinguished university faculty with notable academic credentials, political science experience and a commitment to applied research. Build a strong foundation for pursuing advanced political science education, law degrees and more opportunities. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Outcomes Earning a degree political science paves the way for graduates to pursue a variety of roles that go well beyond government and politics, while also developing critical thinking, research, writing and analytical skills. No matter what area of political science you study, the critical skills you develop in research, analysis and communications can help you succeed both inside and outside the political arena. University of Louisville’s Political Science graduates have been extremely successful in earning prestigious scholarships and fellowships, including numerous Fulbright Award winners and multiple Truman Scholars. Many graduates go on to have successful careers—both in the U.S. and abroad—in the following fields: Local, state and federal government agencies Campaigns International affairs Economic development offices Non-governmental organizations Nonprofit organizations Regulatory agencies Law/legal organizations Public policy Business Academia Media This degree is also a stepping stone for anyone looking to pursue a career as a political scientist. Political scientists earn a median pay of $122,220, with job outlook project to grow 6% by 2029 (bls.gov). Students who want to explore their career options with a bachelor's degree in political science can reach out to the UofL Career Development Center, which supports students from their freshman year to their senior year and beyond with career assessments, advising, job and internship postings, resume and interview help, special events and more. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Application Deadline Term Start Date July 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May/June Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete undergraduate application Submit $25 non-refundable application fee Submit official college transcripts for transfer credits from all attended institutions Check for scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION We're here to help! For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. Admission Requirements Minimum GPA of 2.0 (on a 4.0 scale) Transfer Credit If you have college credit but did not finish your bachelor’s degree, earn your degree in as little as 2 years through UofL’s online B.A. in Political Science. Transfer up to 60 hours from a community college and up to 90 hours from an accredited 4-year college. Transfer applicants must have a minimum college GPA of 2.5 to be admitted in good standing. Complete the credit transfer pre-evaluation to get an idea of how many credits you'll be able to transfer in toward your UofL bachelor's degree, and visit our General Transfer Student page for more details. Are you a KCTCS student? KCTCS students can transfer completed associate degrees in their entirety and begin immediately with online upper level coursework at UofL. Visit our KCTCS Transfers Page for more information. See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. International Students If you live outside of the United States and intend to complete an online academic program from your home country, be sure to view special requirements for international students. International applicants must take the TOEFL exam if applying from countries where English is not the native language. Applicants holding a baccalaureate or advanced degree from an accredited institution in the United States are exempt from this requirement. Bachelor's degrees earned internationally must be assessed to ensure that entrance requirements are met. International students will not be issued a U.S. visa if admitted to the online structural transportation certificate program, since there are no campus attendance requirements. The online Bachelor of Arts in Political Science is a 121-credit hour program broken down into the following curriculum components: General education classes (31 credit hours) Arts & Sciences programmatic requirements (22 credit hours) Core political science courses (15 credit hours) Supporting Courses (53 hours) Core Course List Hours POLS 201 Introduction to American Government and Politics 3 POLS 202 Introduction to Comparative Politics 3 POLS 330 International Relations 3 POLS 390 Contemporary Political Research 3 POLS 495 Senior Seminar 3 Minimum Total Hours 15 Students are required to take at least one course from each of Political Science's five subfields. Supporting Course List Hours American Politics [select at least one of the following] 3 POLS 306 State Government POLS 311 American Presidency POLS 312 Constitutional Law - Powers of Government POLS 313 Constitutional Law - Rights and Liberties POLS 314 Judicial Politics POLS 315 Race, Law and Politics POLS 316 Gender, Sexuality & Law POLS 317 American Congress POLS 318 Religion and United States Politics POLS 319 Media and Politics POLS 320 Civil Rights and the Law II POLS 321 Public Opinion POLS 322 American Political Parties and Elections POLS 323 Queer Politics POLS 324 Women in American Politics POLS 327 African-American Politics POLS 401 Topics in American Politics POLS 501 Topics in American Politics POLS 507 Topics in Digital Politics Public Policy [select at least one of the following] 3 POLS 302 Urban Political Economy POLS 304 Comparative Urban Politics POLS 305 Urban Politics POLS 310 Policy, Community & Service POLS 325 Public Administration POLS 326 Public Policy POLS 333 American Foreign Policy POLS 405 Topics in Public Policy POLS 426 Environmental Policy POLS 505 Topics in Urban and Public Policy POLS 510 Louisville Metro Council Internship POLS 511 Internship II POLS 512 Frankfort Legislative Internship International Relations [select at least one of the following] 3 POLS 331 International Organization POLS 332 International Law POLS 333 American Foreign Policy POLS 334 The Politics of Global Economic Relations POLS 335 Global Environmental Politics POLS 336 Politics of European Integration and Foreign Policy POLS 337 Law, Diplomacy and Power POLS 338 National and International Security: Issues and Policies POLS 339 Terrorism POLS 341 Political Violence POLS 363 Politics of Oil POLS 364 World Order POLS 371 Latin America in the World POLS 406 Topics in International Relations POLS 450 Topics in World Affairs POLS 437 The United States and East Asia POLS 506 Topics in International Relations POLS 520 Coping with Conflict POLS 530 International Negotiation Comparative Politics [select at least one of the following] 3 POLS 304 Comparative Urban Politics POLS 328 Information Technology and Politics POLS 340 Politics and Government of Western Europe POLS 345 Russia and Eurasia POLS 341 Political Violence POLS 347 Democratization POLS 349 Comparative Political Culture POLS 350 African Government and Politics POLS 355 Introduction to Middle East Politics POLS 356 Political Islam POLS 362 Comparative Political Economy POLS 363 Politics of Oil POLS 366 Politics of East Asia POLS 365 People's Republic of China POLS 367 Politics and Government of Southeast Asia POLS 370 Comparative Political Development in Latin America POLS 371 Latin America in the World POLS 402 Topics in Comparative Politics POLS 437 The United States and East Asia POLS 502 Topics in Comparative Politics POLS 563 Women in Developing Countries Political Theory [select at least one of the following] 3 POLS 381 Early Political Thought POLS 382 Modern Political Thought POLS 383 American Political Thought POLS 384 Democracy and Its Critics POLS 386 Political Theory and Utopia POLS 387 American Utopian Communities POLS 388 Contemporary Political Theory POLS 404 Topics in Political Theory POLS 504 Topics in Political Theory POLS 568 Feminist Theory Political Science Electives 6 Supporting Courses ECON 202 Principles of Macroeconomics 3 Electives in Social Sciences other than Political Science, with 9 hours at the 300-level or above 15 Minimum Electives 14 Minimum Total Hours 53 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Core Course Descriptions Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link