No images? Click here February 28, 2022 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews International Night in the SRC Come to the SRC this Friday evening at 6pm for International Night. Each semester we reach out to our International community to expose our program to this important segment of our population. Information will be available for all areas of our program. louisville.edu/intramurals ACADEMICS Degree Track in Social Justice & Health Equity This degree track will equip undergraduate public health students with the knowledge and skills to understand the historical, socio-political and economic context through which to engage individuals, organizations, communities, and structures for justice and social change. louisville.edu/sphis/academics Dissertation Writing Retreat The University Writing Center is now accepting applications for its annual Dissertation Writing Retreat. The retreat will occur daily May 16-20, 2022 from 8:30am - 4:00pm. PhD students from all programs and stages of dissertation writing are welcome to apply. https://louisville.edu/writingcenter/for-students-1/dissertation-writing-retreats WHAT'S HAPPENING National Study Abroad Day Celebrate National Study Abroad Day on February 28. Enter the IG Giveaway to win a weighted blanket by 10 am at @uoflstudyabroad. Winner announced at 2pm. Tabling from 11am–1pm in the SAC West Plaza. Study Abroad Alumni Panel from 12–1pm on MS Teams: https://bit.ly/3IhpMJT Love Shouldn't Hurt: A One Love Workshop Join the PEACC Center, the Cultural Center, and the LGBT Center for a workshop around boundaries, expectations, and overall healthy relationships. February 28, 5pm, Cultural & Equity Center MPR. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7875178 A Data Privacy Panel Please join the Louis D. Brandeis School of Law Technology Law Society & Student Bar Association for a data privacy panel on March 1, 2022 12–12:50pm at the Louis D. Brandeis School of Law in room 275. Please register to attend at: https://forms.gle/k75C8FT2ZHvmK5j69 Movie night & discussion with producers Tomorrow! "Tank Man" and "Empty Skies" are critically acclaimed, award-winning film shorts based on events in Communist China. The CFE will screen both, and host an in-person discussion with the producers on March 1 at 4:30 in the College of Business. Free hot dogs & popcorn. Free and open to all. CODRE Campus-wide Listening Session March 2, 10 am–noon, MS Teams. “How is UofL Developing Future Leaders?” As the university transitions to new leadership, how is the university developing future leaders? Everyone is welcome, and we look forward to hearing your voices. Register to attend here: forms.office.com/r/jwX29vPD5p 2022 Spring Communication Internship Fair Interested in a Communication Internship? Come meet employers interested in you on March 3 from 11:30am to 1:30pm in the Red Barn. louisville.joinhandshake.com/career_fairs/30608/student_preview?token=_bbWEmxHkrZ__ECTzFqV-dWTMyHi_MgOF0BjlPFUIgGPqq8VUbLagw Cookies and Coloring Dear White Feminists 2022 Minx Auerbach Lecture in WGST featuring Rafia Zakaria. Dear White Feminists How white women have led the feminist movement & what needs to happen to change for the better. March 8, 2022, 5:30pm, Rauch Planetarium or stream: www.youtube.com/channel/UCmlwTcVLJfnubSS_9_srHbw/live. Spring Self-Care Cardinal Fair The Counseling Center is hosting the spring self-care cardinal fair on Thursday, March 10 from 11am–2pm at the Red Barn. There will be food, giveaways, raffle prizes, wellness activities, and more (while supplies last). For more information visit louisville.edu/counseling AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Call for nominations: 2022 Student Awards The 2022 Student Awards are open to all UofL students and RSOs. 23 categories encompass group and individual awards, including Outstanding Student, and Student Employee. The nomination deadline for awards is March 1 at 5:00 p.m. For more information, please visit Engage and click on Forms. Red Barn Scholarships Could you use one of two $1,700 and three $500 scholarships to be awarded for the 2022 Spring Semester through the Red Barn Programs office? You can apply for these scholarships on Engage UofL by going to louisville.edu/studentaffairs/scholarships STUDENT AFFAIRS PODCASTS International Student and Scholar Services Be sure to check out the latest podcast from Student Affairs about International Student and Scholar Services at UofL: https://www.buzzsprout.com/1945241/episodes/10132400 COMMUTER & TRANSFER NEWS SPORTS Group Fitness at the SRC Have you checked out our Spring Group Fitness Schedule? We have new class offerings like "Pilates + Cycle." This unique class combines two popular workout styles for a fun way to stay fit. Check out our full schedule on our website: louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness/src-group-fitness Ballroom Dance Club in the SRC The Ballroom Dance Club meets Tuesday evenings in the SRC, learning dances such as the foxtrot, salsa, cha cha, waltz, and hustle. No experience and no partner required. A new dance is featured each month....this month's dance is the rumba. Its a great way to meet people...come dance with us! www.facebook.com/groups/72758924938 Intramural Basketball Championship Night! This year the Intramural Basketball Championship will look a little different. Adidas is sponsoring the night by "unlocking" a stash of gear for the crowd if they get an X number of Creator Club Sign ups. Please scan the QR code to sign up for the Creator Club. We hope to see you out on March 2. imleagues.com/louisville Cardinal Classic at Ulmer Stadium The UofL Softball team starts their home season with the Cardinal Classic this Friday, March 4 through this Sunday, the 6 at Ulmer Stadium. Admission is free to all fans. Home Baseball Series The UofL Baseball team hosts Akron this Friday through Sunday, March 4 – 6. Admission is free for students at Jim Patterson Stadium. Enjoy discounted drinks on Friday, and wear a Cards cap on Saturday for a free small popcorn! Senior Day at the Yum! Center The Louisville Men’s Basketball team plays their final game at home this weekend. The Cards takes on Virginia on Saturday, March 5 at Noon. Senior posters will be provided while supplies last. Student tickets are just $15 and can be purchased here: uofl.me/mbbstudenttix Family Friendly Event SUSTAINABILITY Garden Commons Seed Starting Workshop Get a jump-start on your food garden this year. Join us in the greenhouse at the garden behind Urban & Public Affairs, 426 W. Bloom St. (west of Bettie Johnson Hall) to learn about starting seeds to save money, get better results, and make the most of the growing season. Friday, March 4, 1pm at UPA Garden. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/seed-starting-workshop-3 Family Friendly Event Free Post-Landfill Action Network Trainings UofL’s membership in the student-led Post-Landfill Action Network grants you free access to: 1-on-1 advising & speaking events with PLAN staff, zero-waste manuals & swag discounts, and the spring training series (including Fighting Waste 101). Register with @louisville.edu email at postlandfill.org. More info: www.postlandfill.org/plan-events Take green action & win in Ecolympics Shoutout to Bettie Johnson Hall leading the Dorm Drawdown & to Brian Barnes who won our 3rd-week prize basket by composting. Take action, share it, & win now through March 26. Reduce, reuse, recycle, compost, bus, bike, walk, carpool, unplug, shut if off, take the stairs, work for justice. ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I need some help with school and finances, but I am not sure where to go. A. Speak with a Student Success Coordinator! SSCs provide personalized attention to help you navigate problems whether they are academic, financial, or personal. For more information, visit https://louisville.edu/enrollmentmanagement/student-success. DID YOU KNOW? UofL offers a wide range of scholarships, grants, loans and work-study opportunities to help you pay for your education. Go to: louisville.edu/admissions/aid. CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe