No images? Click here March 21, 2022 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews FREE Pizza and Lemon Aid Join us every Monday, today through April 25, for FREE Pizza and Lemon Aid. 11:30am in the Red Barn. Sponsored by: George J. Howe Red Barn. Family Friendly Event IMPORTANT INFORMATION Student Grievance Officer Any students who believe they have been treated unfairly, discriminated against, or have had their rights abridged may initiate a grievance within one year from the event giving rise to the complaint. louisville.edu/dos/help/studentgrievance ACADEMICS Accelerated MPH degree program for ANY MAJOR NEW Fall 2022—This option allows a student to complete any undergraduate major and the Master of Public Health (MPH) over a five-year period. Eligible students must have earned a minimum of 75 credit hours and a cumulative GPA of 3.25. louisville.edu/sphis/academics/bs-ba-public-health Graduate Student Regional Research Conference Join the Graduate Student Council for their 15th Annual Graduate Student Regional Research Conference on March 24-25, 2022 in the SAC Ballroom. Listen to research presentations, meet exhibitors and keynote speakers, and enter in raffles. Time: March 24 (9am-2pm), March 25 (9am-6pm). Registration and Information. WHAT'S HAPPENING Cultural Conexiones with Cultural Center Cultural Center will host our March Cultural Conexiones: Women Femmes Non Binary. Join us Tuesday, March 22 @12pm as we celebrate Women's History Month through a roundtable discussion. We will explore the intersection of BIPOC and Women/Femmes/NonBinary. Location: Cultural and Equity Center. Free Food. louisville.edu/culturalcenter/ Drugs, Drones, Disasters: A Panel Discussion Markets are everywhere. Join us as three economists with research in very different areas discuss their work and how markets impact us all. Wednesday, Mar 23, 4pm in College of Business Room 351. Free Pizza Hut pizza for attendees. Info: https://tinyurl.com/cnrbm7f7 Student Parent Association Adulting Series Join the Student Parent Association in its virtual Adulting Series Workshop, "Empower You," facilitated by Dr. Armon Perry, of the Kent School of Social Work. Email womenctr@louisville.edu for more information and to register. louisville.edu/womenscenter/student-organizations/student-parent-association Family Friendly Event Muhammad Ali: A Transcendent Life—Standing Up for Peace Symposium Thursday, 3/31/22, 9am-6pm, Student Activities Center (SAC) Ballroom. Plenary Sessions in the morning address how Ali inspires young people and how artists are standing up for peace and are inspired by Muhammad Ali. Speakers include artist, Hannah Drake, Dr. Raymond Green, and keynote-Ambassador Shabazz. Register here. Family Friendly Event PINK! - Student Produced Drag Show PINK!, The University of Louisville Student-Produced Drag Show is swiftly approaching. We have some amazing performers ready to give an amazing show. Not only that, we are excited to have the event on-campus and in-person. Friday, April 1, 7pm, SAC Ballroom. You can begin to RSVP now via Engage. Family Friendly Event CODRE Campus-wide Listening Session “Student voices is anyone listening?” and “Paying for School—Obstacles, Barriers and Resources.” The session will be facilitated by two UofL student leaders. April 6, 4-6 p.m., Teams. Everyone is welcome, and we look forward to hearing your voices. Register to attend here. Lavender Graduation Join the UofL LGBT Center as we celebrate our LGBTQ+ spring graduates. May 10 from Noon–2pm in the UClub/Alumni Center Ballroom. We want to honor you with food, rainbow cords, and (if applicable) a Katy Garrison Leadership Award. Graduates, please RSVP. 2 guests allowed. Family Friendly Event STUDENT AFFAIRS PODCAST SERIES Intramural Sports Podcast Be sure to check out the latest podcast from UofL Student Affairs about UofL Intramural Sports. Check it out here: www.buzzsprout.com/1945241 AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Scholarship opportunities The Women's Center has a few scholarship opportunities for undergraduate students for fall 2022. Application deadline, 5pm, April 22. Visit this link to download criteria and applications. Email womenctr@louisville.edu for more information. CLUBS, GROUPS, & ORGANIZATIONS SPA Meet-up Are you a UofL student parent? You are invited to the next Student Parent Association (SPA) Meet-up in the Cultural & Equity Center, March 23, 2pm. Meet other student-parents, help plan events or just hang out and relax. Snacks & refreshments. Email, womenctr@louisville.edu or call 852-7715 to register. louisville.edu/womenscenter/student-organizations/student-parent-association Family Friendly Event LEAD THE WAY Cards Camp Counselor applications NOW OPEN We are looking for a group of enthusiastic and responsible campus leaders to join our team. In this capacity, they serve as resources for new students and are expected to make the camp experience an exciting and fun welcome to the UofL community. Learn more and apply uofl.me/cards-camp-team SPORTS Whiffleball Entries Due Registration is open for the Whiffleball Tournament. Entries are due by Wednesday, March 23. To enter go to IMleagues.com and select University of Louisville from the drop down box. Your UofL credentials are synched to the site. Sand Volleyball Entries Open Registration is open for the Sand Volleyball Tournament. Entries are due by Wednesday, March 23. To enter go to IMleagues.com and select University of Louisville from the drop down box. Your UofL credentials are synched to the site. JOB OPPORTUNITIES Need summer work? UofL Sustainability is hiring Got a passion for the environment & justice? UofL’s Sustainability Council is hiring paid interns to take the lead on campus projects in 2022-23 for up to 10 hrs/wk. Composting has immediate openings. Other positions available: Communications, Bike Mechanic, Zero Waste, & Dining. Apply now. louisville.edu/sustainability/education-research/internships REACH is now hiring for Fall 2022 REACH is now hiring for Fall 2022 Hiring for Mathematics, Natural Sciences, Social Sciences, Languages, Business, Computer Programming, Engineering, History, and Music. Flexible work hours. Starts at $12/hour. Build interpersonal skills, keep your academic skills sharp, and it looks good on your resume. Learn more: reach.louisville.edu/employment. SUSTAINABILITY Last week to enter Ecolympics 2022 Shoutout to our recent weekly prize basket winners, Ethan Johnson, a junior who bikes to campus, and Rachel Singel, a Printmaking professor who makes paper from invasive species! Ecolympics ends Saturday, but you can still be entered to win by taking any sustainable action & sharing it. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/ecolympics-2022 Got high gas prices? UofL is Bike Friendly It’s the perfect time to discover the healthy, money-saving, non-polluting joys of pedaling. The League of American Bicyclists just awarded UofL Bike-Friendly University status. Take advantage: Map safe routes at directions.louisville.edu; join LouVelo for just $7.50/mo; borrow a bike free from UofL. louisville.edu/sustainability/operations/bicycling-for-transportation Skillshare & Repair Fair, Wednesday 11am-3pm The Student Sustainability Coalition invites you to check out the Skillshare and Repair Fair on Wednesday, 3/23. Stop by the Humanities Quad from 11am–3pm, to learn new skills for sustainable living. Enjoy music, food, & local experts sharing their green skills/wares, and helping you fix things. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/skillshare-and-repair-fair ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I have some concerns, but I don’t know where to go on campus. How can I figure out what to do? A. UofL’s ConcernCenter is a great resource and can be found at louisville.concerncenter.com. The website has a directory of all resources on campus. If you aren’t sure where to start, you can always search by your issue (for example, test anxiety) and all relevant resources will be provided! DID YOU KNOW? There is a University Career Center with all kinds of helpful tools available for students such as part time job search, career fairs, "Resume Review," assessments, and more. Go to: louisville.edu/career CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe