No images? Click here March 1, 2022 Boost your resume with free digital badges The Digital Transformation Center offers free technology courses to all UofL students. Earn resume-boosting digital badges from organizations such as Google, IBM and Adobe, or enhance your grasp of emerging technologies including blockchain, cloud computing and more. louisville.edu/digital-transformation/learn#jsUofl Application deadlines approaching for grad programs If you’re graduating this summer and thinking about a graduate program as your next step, applications for many of our online programs are due by April 1. Click here to view all the programs currently offered online. UofL Librarians are available virtually Need help with research? Librarians are available for online or phone appointments to talk you through the research process and answer your questions. You can also chat with a librarian through the Ask a Librarian service. Book a consultation today! library.louisville.edu/librarian-specialty Registration for Graduation Celebration The Cultural Center's Graduation Celebration is open to UofL graduates on all levels. The ceremony takes place on May 12 at 6 pm in the SAC Ballroom, and will highlight the cultures of our diverse student population. You must register online to order a free graduation Kente cloth, Serape or sash. www.eventbrite.com/e/cultural-center-2022-graduation-celebration-tickets-255207912737 Upcoming Career Fairs Interested in finding your future? Come to one of the university's many career fairs to explore your opportunities that employers have for your career & internship aspirations. Some fairs are virtual. louisville.edu/career/career-fairs Public Health Minor Do you want to learn more about public health to compliment your current major? If so, consider a public health minor. catalog.louisville.edu/undergraduate/minors/public_health-minor Kentucky Women's Book Festival, March 5 Register to attend the KWBF virtual webinar KWBF featuring award winning poet, Joy Priest, author of Horsepower and two young authors, De'Coriyanna Garrett and Cherish Wilson. Register, bit.ly/3GAmpfM Visit, louisville.edu/womenscenter/our-programs/kwbf for more information. Dear White Feminists 2022 Minx Auerbach Lecture in WGST featuring Rafia Zakaria. Dear White Feminists March 8, 2022 5:30 pm Rauch Planetarium or stream. www.youtube.com/channel/UCmlwTcVLJfnubSS_9_srHbw/live How white women have led the feminist movement & what needs to happen to change for the better. Free Post-Landfill Action Network Trainings UofL’s membership in the student-led Post-Landfill Action Network grants you free access to: 1-on-1 advising & speaking events with PLAN staff, zero-waste manuals & swag discounts, and the spring training series (including Fighting Waste 101). Register with @louisville.edu email at postlandfill.org. More information: www.postlandfill.org/plan-events Did you know? Each college at UofL has a process in which you may petition for a late withdrawal. Speak with your Academic Advisor or contact the Student Advocate at advocate@louisville.edu or (502) 852-5787 to discuss your options and learn about your college’s process. Online Student Resources Subscribe University of Louisville 2100 S. Floyd St. Student Activities Center, W301 Louisville, KY 40208 You are receiving this email because you are a University of Louisville online student. If you choose to unsubscribe, you agree to no longer receive important UofL news and updates. Unsubscribe