Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Admissions Navigation Home #VisitTheVille Campus Visit for High School Students Diverse Student Visit Opportunities Campus Visit for Transfer/Adult Students Self-Guided, On-Campus Tour Meet Your Cardinal Guides Meet your Diversity Student Ambassadors Virtual Campus Tour Group Visits Campus Visit FAQS Directions to Campus AP Summer Institute What to Do Where to Stay Near Campus Pop-In Tours #VisitTheVille#VisitTheVille Dropdown Toggle Campus Visit for High School Students Diverse Student Visit Opportunities Campus Visit for Transfer/Adult Students Self-Guided, On-Campus Tour Meet Your Cardinal Guides Meet your Diversity Student Ambassadors Virtual Campus Tour Group Visits Campus Visit FAQS Directions to Campus AP Summer Institute What to Do Where to Stay Near Campus Pop-In Tours Apply Now University Honors Program I am a first-time freshman I am a transfer student I am an adult student I am a returning student I am a high school visitor I am a college visitor I am an international student I am a post-baccalaureate student I am a graduate student I am an online student I am a continuing studies student I am a certificate student I am a senior citizen Guaranteed Entrance Programs After You Apply/Check Your Status Apply NowApply Now Dropdown Toggle University Honors Program I am a first-time freshman I am a transfer student I am an adult student I am a returning student I am a high school visitor I am a college visitor I am an international student I am a post-baccalaureate student I am a graduate student I am an online student I am a continuing studies student I am a certificate student I am a senior citizen Guaranteed Entrance Programs After You Apply/Check Your Status Academics Cost & Aid Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Cost & AidCost & Aid Dropdown Toggle Tuition & Fees Scholarships Financial Aid Admitted Students Diversity Woodford R. Porter Scholarship MLK Scholars Program DSAAs UCP Shadow Visit Program Admisiones en Español DiversityDiversity Dropdown Toggle Woodford R. Porter Scholarship MLK Scholars Program DSAAs UCP Shadow Visit Program Admisiones en Español Contact Us Admissions Directory Find Your Counselor Contact UsContact Us Dropdown Toggle Admissions Directory Find Your Counselor #VisitTheVille Campus Visit for High School Students Diverse Student Visit Opportunities Campus Visit for Transfer/Adult Students Self-Guided, On-Campus Tour Meet Your Cardinal Guides Meet your Diversity Student Ambassadors Virtual Campus Tour Group Visits Campus Visit FAQS Directions to Campus AP Summer Institute What to Do Where to Stay Near Campus Pop-In Tours Home / #VisitTheVille / Self-Guided, On-Campus Tour Self-Guided, On-Campus Tour We encourage you to explore our beautiful campus at your own pace! Use this as a guide to learn more about the University of Louisville's campus, facilities, history and student life. ****Please note, many states have issued self-quarantine advisories for travelers. We ask that students and families to check their state's COVID website prior to their visit for quarantine restrictions and plan accordingly. Parking will be located on the Visitors Side of the Floyd Street Parking Garage. 9 a.m. - 5 p.m EST, you may proceed to the East side of the Student Activities Center, outside of the Campus Store. Complete the self check-in at the welcome desk and pick up your guide and map. Use the University of Louisville Campus Map to find your way to each stop. Although you will be enjoying campus with your own family we ask that you follow these guidelines while on our campus. View full safety procedures for visitors. If you would like to explore the University of Louisville's campus from home or another off-campus location, please check out our Virtual Tour. And if you haven't already participated in an in-person or virtual campus visit, be sure to schedule one soon! It's the best way to learn about UofL and what awaits you as a Cardinal. Student Activities Center (SAC) The Swain Student Activities Center, commonly called the SAC and easily spotted by its iconic clock tower, serves as a hub of campus life. The SAC received a $40-million expansion and renovation in 2018 and offers more than 6 acres of vibrant gathering spaces for students. East Wing UofL Campus Store Starbucks Athletics Offices Health and Sports Sciences academic advisors & staff offices West Wing Office of Student Involvement Health Promotions and Wellness Flash naps, chair massages, yoga, etc. Multi-purpose Room and Ballrooms Dining: Wendy's, Papa John's, Panda Express, Chick-fi-a, Olio Mediterranean, Prime Grill, Aqua Sushi by Drakes, and the Exchange (rotating offerings) Current hours of operation are Monday-Friday, 9 a.m. - 5 p.m EST. Continue your tour by exiting the building from the second floor, heading down the SAC ramp toward the clock tower. Student Activities Center George Howe Red Barn The George J. Howe Red Barn is located in center of campus and hosts a variety of events throughout the year. The Red Barn is a common ground for students and campus visitors to enjoy, as it is conveniently located next door to the SAC. Multiple fairs offered such as for Resident Student Organization (RSO), study abroad, job opportunities, etc. Ample space for student groups to hold events and gather Often offers free food for students throughout the year To your left you will see construction for a new residence hall due to be finished by fall 2021. This will include double- and single-occupancy rooms and will be the home of the new Cultural and Equity Center. Also to your left is Threlkeld Hall. Red Barn Threlkeld Hall Threlkeld Hall is a traditional style residence hall with double-occupancy rooms and community bathrooms. Community kitchens, a laundry room, and a lounge area with flat screen TV create a feeling of home for around 250 first-year students. Threlkeld houses the Etscorn Honors Center and staff offices. Also included in Threlkeld are academic advising offices and several classrooms. Continue your tour by heading straight on the sidewalk toward Davidson Hall. If you see Louie the Cardinal along the way, don't step on him! It is said to be bad luck! Threlkeld Hall Davidson Hall Davidson Hall is named after the University of Louisville’s twelfth president, Philip G. Davidson and his wife, Jane Davidson. Testing services for academic, placement, certification and accreditation exams Academic classrooms The Psychology Department’s RACER Lab Subway Provisions On Demand (P.O.D.) Express Dining Next door to Davidson hall, you will find Strickler Hall. Strickler Hall Strickler Hall houses the Office of Diversity Education and Inclusive Excellence Committee. In Strickler, students may study Communication and Pan-African studies, among other classes. LGBT Center Muhammad Ali Institute for Peace and Justice Women's Center In fall 2021, these centers will move to the new residence hall within the Cultural and Equity Center. Continue your tour by heading straight between Davidson and Strickler toward the Planetarium Gheens Science Hall and Rauch Planetarium Gheens Science Hall and Rauch Planetarium is not only an educational space for astronomy and space education, but houses multiple event spaces used by the public that often include light and laser shows. Planetarium Theater with a 360-degree view Workshops and Camps for children Weekend laser and light shows - student tickets only $6 Continue your tour by heading straight ahead toward the School of Music. Gheens Science Hall and Rauch Planetarium School of Music The School of Music is home to students seeking degrees in music and new media, music education, history, theory, therapy, voice, and musical instruments. The school offers concerts by students, faculty and visiting musicians. The school is home to the Cardinal Singers, a competitive choir ranked in the top 10 best choral ensembles in the world. Two recital halls A music library Musical practice rooms To your right, you will find the College of Education and Human Development. School of Music College of Education and Human Development The Woodford R. and Harriett B. Porter Building houses the College of Education and Human Development, where students study a variety of subjects, including education, counseling, management, finance, economics, sports administration, and health and sports science. Louisville is home to Kentucky's largest school district and this affords our teacher education students many hands-on learning opportunities. Clinical model of teacher preparation Numerous student organizations for networking, volunteering and building leadership skills Fastest growing program at UofL: Sports Administration Continue your tour by following the diagonal sidewalk in front of the Planetarium toward the College of Business and continue through the atrium. College of Education and Human Development College of Business Harry S. Frazier Hall is the home to the College of Business. The college is accredited by the AACSB and has earned a strong academic reputation with rankings among the top in the nation. Inside, students will study a number of programs including, but not limited to, accountancy, equine business, computer information systems, marketing and entrepreneurship. Ulmer Career Center, a state-of-the-art resource connection employees with College of Business students and alumni Student organizations geared toward business majors Classroom and lounge areas for study Continue your tour by heading left toward the Speed Art Museum. You will pass a horse statue, placed 1 1/4 mile away from Churchill Downs, the exact length of the Kentucky Derby! College of Business Speed Art Museum The Speed Art Museum is the oldest and largest art museum in the state of Kentucky. Although owned by the city of Louisville, students, faculty and staff receive free entry. The museum offers rotating exhibits of classic, contemporary and Kentucky art. Interactive exhibits Inviting outdoor spaces for student study 138-seat cinema Concerts and film festivals Dining at The Wiltshire Continue your tour along the sidewalk on Brandeis Avenue. Along the way, you will catch a glimpse of Greek row, where 15% of the student population participates in a sorority or fraternity. As you cross the street, you will find The Ville Grill. Speed Art Museum The Ville Grill The Ville Grill is your spot on campus for an all-you-care-to-eat restaurant. This cafeteria-style dining option is open 7 days a week. With multiple cuisine choices and fresh ingredients, there is something for everyone. Continue your tour along the sidewalk on Brandeis Avenue. You will cross 2nd and 3rd Streets and turn left on 4th Street toward the Student Recreational Center. Ville Grill Student Recreation Center Considered one of the best in the nation, the Student Rec Center (SRC) is 128,000 square feet of activity for physical, emotional and social well-being. The Office of Intramural Sports is housed within the SRC and includes sports such as flag football, basketball, soccer, tennis, bubble-ball and many more. Multiple group fitness studios Six basketball courts Strength-training area Golf simulator Racquetball and squash courts The SRC Cafe and Cardinal Nutrition Home to 23 club sports As of June 15, hours of operation will be Monday through Friday 10 a.m. - 7 p.m EST, Saturday 11 a.m. - 5 p.m. EST, Sunday 1-7 p.m. EST. Continue your tour by crossing 4th Street to Community Park, one of our many housing options Student Rec Center UofL Housing With 11 residence halls on campus, there is an option for everyone to find their place to live. Each building is monitored at a front desk 24/7 and offers guidance in the form of resident assistant leaders and hall directors. Students are provided with internet and cable within the building and are able to use community kitchens and laundry services. Traditional Style Typically double-occupancy (limited number of single-occupancy) Single-gender communal bathrooms located on each floor or wing Halls include: Miller, Threlkeld, Unitas Tower Over 20 living-learning and themed communities are offered throughout the residence halls Suite Style Variety of floor plans "Jack-and-Jill" style bathrooms In-room sink Refrigerator and microwave are provided Halls include: Community Park, Louisville Hall, Kurz, Billy Minardi Apartment Style Available to upper-level students Private bedroom and bathroom Common living area and kitchen Halls include: Bettie Johnson, Cardinal Towne, University Pointe, University Tower Apartments Continue your tour by following Brandeis Avenue back to 2nd Street. Turn right at the Speed Museum and you will see Ekstrom Library on your left. Enter through the main West Wing doors. UofL Housing Ekstrom Library The William F. Ekstrom Library is the main library on the Belknap Campus. The West Wing is open 24/7 and you will always find a newly renovated and open area for study. Students, faculty and staff are able to checkout not only books, but movies and laptops as well. The East Wing houses the Research Center where students are able to receive guidance on research subjects and projects. The Digital Media Suite provides an area and equipment for creating and editing videos, a helpful tool for many classes. Computer workstations Archives and special collections Ann Braden Institute for Social Justice Research McConnell Center Delphi Center for Teaching and Learning University Writing Center Starbucks Current hours of operation are Monday-Friday, 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. EST. Exit through the East Wing doors into the Arts and Sciences Quad. Turn right as you leave the library and follow the sidewalk toward the Oval Lawn. Ekstrom Library Brandeis School of Law Named for Supreme Court Justice Louis D. Brandeis, the School of Law is situated to the side of the recognizable Oval Lawn. The Brandeis School of Law was ranked No. 1 by U.S. News and World Report as Most Efficient School and named an over-performing law school by the Tax Blog. 3+3 program: begin law school in final year of undergraduate career and graduate sooner Two clinics and three student-led law journals 20 student-led organizations At the head of the Oval Lawn, you will see Grawemeyer Hall. School of Law Grawemeyer Hall The H. Charles Grawemeyer Hall is a U.S. National Historic Landmark and one of the most recognizable buildings on Belknap Campus. Students can easily recognize the building by UofL’s “The Thinker” statue that sits on the front steps of Grawemeyer Hall overlooking the oval lawn area that is often the center of campus events. "The Thinker" is the first large-scale bronze cast, personally supervised by French sculptor Auguste Rodine when it was made in Paris. It came out of the mold on December 25, 1903 and was completed in early 1904. Administration Office of the President and Provost of UofL A Foucalt pendulum suspended from the building's 73-foot interior dome Once served as the university library To the right of the Oval Lawn, you will see Brigman Hall. Brigman Hall Built in 1887, Brigman Hall houses the Justice Administration Unit and the Department of Criminal Justice. Includes a Criminal Justice Accelerated Track to Law Houses advising offices, classrooms and support services Continue your tour by heading straight toward Dougherty Hall. Dougherty Hall Named after General Russel E. Dougherty, the building was initially used as a Naval Sciences Building and housed the V-12 Navy college. Home to Department of Military Science Air Force ROTC - Detachment 295 Army ROTC - Cardinal Battalion Continue your tour by heading straight toward the Speed School of Engineering. J.B. Speed School of Engineering The J.B. Speed Building has the benefit of a small engineering college coupled with the ample resources and activities of a major metropolitan university. Programs include bioengineering, chemical engineering, civil and environmental engineering, computer engineering and computer science, electrical and computer engineering, industrial engineering, and mechanical engineering. Offers 4-year bachelor's degree with optional 5th year master's degree Opportunities for co-ops, internships and hands-on experience during during undergraduate career City Cafe Continue your tour by heading north toward Schneider Hall. You will pass the Natural Sciences Building and Miller IT Center. Speed School of Engineering Schneider Hall Schneider Hall is home to the Hite Art Institute and houses the institute’s main offices. The Hite Art Institute is the most comprehensive fine arts program in the state of Kentucky. Programs offered include art history, ceramics, drawing, graphic design, interior design, photography, sculpture, and more. Bridwell Art Library Three galleries Interior design and graphic design studios Continue your tour by heading straight into the quad, where Lutz Hall will be on your right. Lutz Hall Housed within Lutz hall are the Department of Sociology, Department of Anthropology, Department of Geography and Geosciences. Each department provides students with many opportunities both within the classroom and in the community. Offers courses in diversity and inequality Home to several student organizations Prepares students for a variety of careers by connecting with the community While on the quad, the Belknap Academic Building will be to the left of Lutz Hall. Belknap Academic Building The newest academic building on the Belknap campus, finished in 2018, the Belknap Academic Building houses many resources for students. As you step into the building you will notice the benches beside the main staircase. These were made with recycled wood from the Crawford Gymnasium floor on which the 1980 and 1986 championship basketball teams practiced. Student Success Center REACH (Resources for Academic Achievement) 50+ technology-rich classrooms, labs, seminar rooms and group study areas Provisions on Demand (P.O.D.) Express Dining Labs for chemistry, biology, anthropology and physics Continue your tour by turning left toward the Shumaker Research Building. Shumaker Research Building The John W. Shumaker Research Building is an 117,000-square-foot facility designed to promote multidisciplinary research projects. Within the building you will find conference rooms, administrative offices and lab spaces. Lab space for 40+ scientists Largest clean room in Kentucky Enjoy the view in the Belknap Academic Building Quad, newly renamed the 2020 Quad in honor of the graduating class of 2020. Remember not to step on Louie the Cardinal if you see him! Stay up-to-date on all UofL Admissions-related COVID-19 information. #VisitTheVille Campus Visit for High School Students Diverse Student Visit Opportunities Campus Visit for Transfer/Adult Students Self-Guided, On-Campus Tour Meet Your Cardinal Guides Meet your Diversity Student Ambassadors Virtual Campus Tour Group Visits Campus Visit FAQS Directions to Campus AP Summer Institute What to Do Where to Stay Near Campus Pop-In Tours Office of ADMISSIONS, DEPT. ao University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Office Hours M-F 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. No holiday hours Phone tel 502.852.6531 fax 502.852.6526 Email admitme@louisville.edu Social Media Twitter Facebook Instagram © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville