No images? Click here April 4, 2022 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Cardinal Family Fun Day Presented by the Student Activities Board (SAB), April 9, 3 p.m., SAC Courtyard. Come for Rides, Games, and Food! Outdoor Movie: Disney's Encanto at 7 p.m. IMPORTANT INFORMATION Password web portal not available 4/8 weekend UofL’s password.louisville.edu web portal will be offline from noon, Friday, April 8 until 6 a.m., Monday, April 11. If you have password-change issues before, during the weekend, and after, please submit a service ticket or contact our ITS HelpDesk. Make sure to end this semester successfully The semester is almost over. You’re facing exams, last papers due, and possibly a move. Looking back, what have you done that has helped you be successful this semester? Do more of that during this crunch time. If you are experiencing distress because of how your semester is ending, there are several resources that might be helpful. If you don’t know where to turn, contact the Dean of Students Office at 852-5787 or dos@louisville.edu. Commencement stories The University seeks to highlight individual students as a way to illustrate the experiences many students share working toward graduation. We are looking for students to share their “story,” specifically graduating students who had a great UofL experience, who had a unique UofL experience, who have exciting opportunities after graduation that may or may not relate directly to your chosen major, or students who have overcome challenges on their way to graduation. Additional Information. ACADEMICS Master of Public Health Getting a Master’s in Public Health can be an introduction for a number of careers with its various concentration options. We offer concentrations in biostatistics, health policy, epidemiology, health behavior and global health. catalog.louisville.edu/graduate/programs-study/master-public-health/ WHAT'S HAPPENING “Student voices—is anyone listening?” Join CODRE for the next Campus-wide listening session, “Student voices—is anyone listening?” and “Paying for School—Obstacles, Barriers and Resources” April 6, 4–6 p.m., Teams. Everyone is welcome, and we look forward to hearing your voices. Register here. Mental Health in the Margins Come out and learn how we can break stigmas and barriers of mental health in marginalized communities. Lauren Muir, MA, LPCC-S, CCTSF, will also be speaking out of mental health challenges in marginalized communities. Box lunches will be provided and there will also be giveaways. This event will be held on April 6 from 11 a.m.–1 p.m., in SAC Ballroom A. RSVP CardSPEAK—Dine to Donate Raise money for suicide prevention by dining in or carrying out at Senor Iguanas. There is no extra cost to you. Just let your waiter know you are dining for a cause and up to 15% of your check will be donated to #StopSuicide. April 6, 4 p.m. For more information, email Sarah Duncan. Family Friendly Event Honors Student Council Spring Conference Honors Student Council is hosting a service event and panel for Kentucky Refugee Ministries on April 7 from 5–7:30 p.m. in the Strickler Courtyard. Come paint mugs to donate to the homes of families seeking refuge in Louisville. Then, hear from those who have gone through the refugee experience personally. Sign-up through here or use the QR code above. Family Friendly Event UofL Out of the Darkness Walk The Campus Out of the Darkness Walks are the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention's (AFSP) signature student fundraising series, designed to engage youth and young adults in the fight to prevent suicide. The walk is on Sunday, April 10, at 3 p.m. at the Red Barn Plaza. Free registration. Flo Milli Spring Concert The Student Activities Board (SAB) presents Flo Milli, April 14, Old Forester's Paristown Hall, Doors open at 7 p.m. $15 student ticket with code: ULSAB Tickets at Ticketmaster.com, RSVP. STUDENT AFFAIRS PODCAST SERIES UofL Dean of Students Be sure to check out the latest podcast from Student Affairs about the UofL Dean of Students. Check it out here: louisville.edu/student/podcast. You can also find it on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, Overcast, Amazon Music, and Buzzsprout. AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Scholarship opportunities The Women's Center has a few scholarship opportunities for undergraduate students for fall 2022. Application deadline, 5 p.m., April 22. Visit this link to download criteria and applications, louisville.edu/womenscenter/awards-and-scholarships/scholarships YOUR HEALTH Group fitness at the SRC We've added a new class to our group fitness schedule for the rest of the semester. Come enjoy a fun kickboxing workout with Hannah, every Monday and Wednesday at 5pm at the SRC. Stay up to date with us by following our Instagram account. SPORTS Donuts with the Director on the HSC Campus For only the 3rd time in 83 years, the Department of Intramural Sports has a new director. You're invited to meet Justin Peterson and enjoy a donut while you get to know him. He'll be at the HSC Fitness Center between Noon and 1p.m. on April 4. Nothing says donuts are just for breakfast. Sign up for Intramural Putt Putt The deadline to sign up for Intramural Putt-Putt is Wednesday, April 6. Check out IMLeagues.com/louisville for more information. If you have any questions please reach out to Kat Halbleib. Battle of the Bluegrass at Ulmer Stadium The UofL Softball team goes head-to-head with the University of Kentucky on April 6 at 7 p.m. The theme is Red Out and Decades Night. All fans are encouraged to wear red. There will be a T-Shirt & Scrunchie Giveaway. Students will get free pizza in 5th inning. After the game there will be autographs. gocards.com/calendar Family Friendly Event Baseball Takes on UNC The UofL Men’s Baseball team hosts a series against UNC this weekend. Friday, April 8 at 6 p.m. is Student Night, Saturday, April 9 at 1 p.m. will have a major league theme glasses giveaway, and Sunday, April 9 at 1 p.m. is Family Fun Day. gocards.com/calendar Family Friendly Event Softball Alumni and Kid’s Day The UofL Softball team is letting Kid’s Takeover the Ballpark Saturday, April 9 at 1 p.m in Ulmer Stadium as they will take on UNC. Admission is free. Sign up for participation will close April 6. There will be a photobooth, face painter, and giveaway packs for each kid & first 200 fans a T-Shirt. Family Friendly Event Noche de Familia y Amigos Baseball Edition Join the Hispanic/Latinx & Indigenous Initiatives for an evening of tailgating at Jim Patterson Stadium featuring community, music, and food at Noche de Familia y Amigos Baseball Edition. Tuesday, April 12, Tailgating, 5 p.m. Game Vs. Cincinnati at 6 p.m. Free admission. Open to all students, faculty, staff and community. RSVP. Family Friendly Event CAREER DEVELOPMENT SEC & ACC Virtual Career Fair Interested in finding a job, career, or internship? Get online on Wednesday, April 6 from 10 a.m.–5 p.m. www.careereco.com/events/SECACC Family Friendly Event UofL DINING UofL Dining new partnership at Ville Grill UofL Dining is partnering with Chef Grace Ramirez to launch a new pop-up, La Latina Cocina, offering authentic Latin dishes to campus diners. This new offering will run through the end of the semester at Ville Grill. louisville.edu/dining Dining options during Ramadan Evergrains: Mon–Thurs open until 9 p.m. (Apr 4–May 2) with a specialty menu on Mon & Wed POD UTA: Mon–Thurs open until 11:30 p.m., Sun open until 10 p.m. Ekstrom Starbucks: Sun–Thurs open until 10 p.m. Twisted Taco: Grubhub Mobile Ordering Only Mon–Thurs 4 p.m.–12 a.m. Fri–Sat 4 p.m.–9 p.m. Sun 4 p.m.–10 p.m. louisville.edu/dining SUSTAINABILITY Congratulations to all our 2022 Ecolympians Week 8 winner, BIO Grad Sophia Anner, bikes, composts, makes kombucha & dryer lint kindling, & uses washable produce bags, coffee socks, beeswax wraps, & reused jars. Grand Prize Winner, GEOG major Adrian Dodd turns off lights & heat, reuses/recycles/composts, volunteers, carpools, walks, & skates. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/ecolympics-2022 ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I hear that UofL offers Study Abroad opportunities. How can I get more information? A. UofL’s Office of Study Abroad and International Travel facilitates international educational experiences that provide opportunities for international study, research, or practical experiences outside of the United States. For more information visit their website at louisville.edu/studyabroad DID YOU KNOW? Is stress getting to you? There is a Counseling Center on the Belknap campus. Make an appointment: louisville.edu/counseling Also, if you have ADHD, a learning disability, or a physical disability, there is a wealth of information to help you here. Go to: louisville.edu/disability/current-students CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe