No images? Click here November 1, 2021 Happy Thanksgiving Cards! Registration for Winter session is open You can accelerate your pace to graduation, catch up on a course you missed or take an elective. All Winter session courses are 100% online, over 3 intensive weeks. Learn more about class scheduling at louisville.edu/wintersession. Get help with your writing assignments The Virtual Writing Center is a free online service designed to help with any stage of the writing process, from working through the assignment prompt to editing the final draft. Appointment required. Schedule your appointment here: louisville.mywconline.com. Talk to a UofL Librarian virtually Need help with research? Librarians are available for online or phone appointments to talk you through the research process and answer your questions. You can also chat with a librarian through the Ask a Librarian service. Book a consultation today! FREE access to Adobe Creative Cloud UofL is an Adobe Creative Campus providing students free access to the Adobe Creative Cloud suite of applications. This includes Photoshop, InDesign, and many more, for creating better digital materials and collaborating on media creation. Learn more. Digital Transformation Center info session Learn more on how the DTC can transform your educational experience through up-skilling, digital badging, and additional resources at your fingertips. Microsoft Teams, November 4, 1pm. Did you know? Is stress getting to you? Therapy Assistance Online (TAO) offers FREE mobile-friendly help for stress, anxiety and depression that fits around your busy life… anytime, anywhere. UofL Students CAN SIGN UP TODAY using your louisville.edu address at https://us.taoconnect.org/register. Also, if you have ADHD, a learning disability, or a physical disability, there is a wealth of information to help you. Go to: louisville.edu/disability/current-students. Online Student Resources Subscribe University of Louisville 2100 S. Floyd St. Student Activities Center, W301 Louisville, KY 40208 You are receiving this email because you are a University of Louisville online student. If you choose to unsubscribe, you agree to no longer receive important UofL news and updates. Unsubscribe