[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Bachelor's Degree Programs / Online Bachelor of Science in General Studies /-/images/pages/bsgs/BSGS_Header.jpg Complete your bachelor’s, your way. bsgs bsgs-program-page organic ../../programs/bachelors/online-bachelor-of-science-in-general-studies/bsgs?tab=apply Miriam Jones Online Enrollment Counselor Online Bachelor of Science in General Studies The online Bachelor of Science in General Studies is designed for adult students with previous college credit and at least a 2-year break from higher education, who are ready to maximize their previous learning experiences—on the job and in the classroom—to complete their bachelor’s degree. UofL’s online bachelor’s in general studies is a student-focused, degree-completion program that enables students to finish their degree in focus areas of their choice and on their schedule through 100% online coursework. You will gain additional skills and the education required for advancement in today’s competitive workforce, as well as tuition-free credit toward your degree for occupational learning through the Prior Learning Assessment component. The Bachelor of Science in General Studies is offered by the College of Arts & Sciences at the University of Louisville. This program is reserved for students pursuing their first undergraduate degree. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Highlights Specialize your bachelor’s in 2 areas based on your interests with your choice between minors in areas like Communication, Political Science, Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies, various certificates, or the combination of a minor and a certificate. Take advantage of a fully online program—designed to fit your life with 24/7 access to classes and coursework completed when it’s right for you. Earn credit for on-the-job learning and save time and money with the optional Prior Learning Assessment (PLA) class. Learn from faculty with distinguished academic credentials, industry experience and a strong commitment to applied research. Transfer in credit hours from prior college courses completed at an accredited institution. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES With UofL Online, you can complete this degree on your own time through fully online coursework. 120 CREDIT HOURS This program is comprised of 120 credit hours in core and elective courses. SAVE UP TO $13K IN TUITION Save up to $13,716 in tuition for workplace learning and training with our Prior Learning Assessment (PLA). "This program is designed specifically for returning adult learners who have earned college credits but stopped-out of college and do not have a bachelor’s degree. It provides those who have some college credit with the opportunity to complete their undergraduate degrees in a short period of time, improving their career readiness and employability" Joseph Grant, Ph.D. Program Director What can I do with a Bachelor of Science in General Studies? Completing a bachelor’s degree can vastly improve your employment outlook and earning potential. Employment in bachelor’s-level occupations is projected to grow by 10% from 2016 to 2026, faster than the 7% average projected growth for all occupations. Additionally, in 2017, the median annual wage for occupations requiring a bachelor’s degree was $36,730 more than those required to hold a high school diploma or similar (bls.gov). Depending on your focus areas, organizations hiring bachelor’s in general studies graduates include but not limited to: Advertising agencies Federal, state, and local government agencies Event companies Businesses and trade associations Colleges, universities and schools Not-for-profit and special interest groups Public relations firms Political organizations Real estate management firms START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May/June Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete undergraduate application $25 non-refundable application fee Submit official college transcripts from all previous institutions Note: Electronic transcripts are only accepted directly from the institution(s). Please have electronic transcripts sent to adetran@louisville.edu. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements 2.0 GPA or higher (on a 4.0 scale) Minimum of 40 transferred credits from an accredited institution At least a 2-year break from actively pursuing higher education International Students If you live outside of the United States and intend to complete an online academic program from your home country, be sure to view special requirements for international students. UofL’s online B.S. in General Studies is a 120-credit hour program, including studies in 2 focus areas—these can be either 2 minors, 2 certificates, or the combination of a minor and a certificate. Core Courses Course List Hours University General Education (Cardinal Core) Requirements 31 College of Arts & Sciences Requirements 12 Foreign Language (completion of the second semester of a single foreign language; hours will vary depending on language taken) 6 Electives in Natural and/or Social Sciences OR electives in Humanities (depending on the areas of focus) at 300 level or above 6 Writing (WR) Courses (two, 300 level or above; met by completing other required courses designated WR) - Degree Specific Requirements* 77 GEN 205: Orientation (8-week course, 1 credit hour for those not seeking PLA); or GEN 305: Orientation and Portfolio Development (full semester course, 3 credit hours for students seeking portfolio construction and PLA) 1-3 GEN 401 or other CUE-designated course 3 Minor or certificate Requirements Area 1** (must be in the College of Arts & Sciences) 9-33 Minor or certificate Requirements Area 2** (can be in any unit) 9-33 Minimum Electives (note that up to 27 credits could be earned from PLA and applied to elective credits) 5-55 Minimum Required Credit Hours 120 * Students must complete a minimum of 50 hours at the 300+ level in order to qualify for graduation, as a certain percentage of your degree must be at the upper level. ** All students are expected to pursue completion of 2 focus areas in the program by completing either 2 minors, 2 certificates, or the combination of a minor and a certificate. Students will choose their focus areas from programs that already exist (e.g., certificate in Geospatial Technologies and minor in Women’s, Gender, and Sexuality Studies); one must be in the College of Arts & Sciences but the second can be in any unit. The specific courses completed will depend on the particular minor or certificate chosen. The most likely minors and certificates are listed below: Minors Business Administration Communication Criminal Justice Healthcare Leadership Psychology Political Science Sociology Sport Administration Women's Gender and Sexuality Studies Certificates Accounting Geospatial Technologies, Applied Human Resource Leadership Healthcare Leadership Note: some focus areas have higher admissions standards than 2.0 GPA START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link