No images? Click here October 1, 2021 Hello Cards! We hope your Fall semester is going well. See what's new and exciting this month. More second half, 8-week classes added More second half of term/8-week courses have been added to the schedule of classes for Fall 2021. If you are looking to pick up more credit hours or change up your schedule, more options are now available. Check with your academic advisors for more information. MA Higher Ed virtual event Are you seeking to work in the higher education field? UofL's Online Master of Arts in Higher Education Administration is hosting virtual information session at 11:30 a.m. on October 5, 2021. Gain the knowledge and skills needed to work and contribute to the higher education field. RSVP today via the online link. Keys to success: tips on finding a workspace As an online student with the flexibility to work anywhere, creating a dedicated workspace may not seem like a necessity. In this video, online students share the impact of their workspaces on their ability to be successful and stay focused. Learn more. Have you set up your CardBox yet? CardBox is a free, unlimited storage system that allows you to secure, share and edit your files from anywhere. You’ll need to request a CardBox account through ULink to start using this service. Click here to view helpful guides for accessing and getting started. Earn resume-boosting digital badges The Digital Transformation Center at UofL offers free technology courses to all UofL students. Earn resume-boosting digital badges from organizations such as Google, IBM and Adobe. Or enhance your grasp of emerging technologies including blockchain, cloud computing and more. louisville.edu/digital-transformation/learn#jsUofl Commission on Diversity and Racial Equality (CODRE) campus-wide listening session October 6, 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m., Teams. “Work Life Balance” How do you balance school and work? Do you feel like you have a good balance of both? To register to attend these sessions click here. Handshake for your career planning Access the Handshake career system for listings of part-time jobs, internships, and full-time/entry-level opportunities. The platform also has other career development resources. Make sure your Handshake profile is up to date so that employers can reach out to you about opportunities. Access Handshake with your UofL ID and password at louisville.joinhandshake.com/login and if you need assistance, contact the University Career Center (louisville.edu/career). Check out the events calendar to get involved The Student Events Calendar is a great way to find opportunities to be more involved with your peers. Many events are available in a hybrid or online format, so you can still be part of the Cardinal Community without ever having to come to campus. Visit: events.louisville.edu. Cards SPEAK Cards SPEAK is a suicide prevention program that works to provide training and awareness campaigns to students, faculty, and staff while offering information and resources, reducing stigma, and promoting a community of caring individuals capable of assisting students in crisis. The Cards SPEAK program offers opportunities to participate in online or in-person training to learn more about mental health and wellbeing. Online resources are available for anyone visiting our website: louisville.edu/cardsspeak. Did you know? If you need assistance and don't know where to go, contact the Dean of Students office at 502-852-5787. ALSO, look online for which campus office can help with your question or need at UofL ConcernCenter: louisville.concerncenter.com Title IX The University of Louisville is a community that cares for one another. If you or someone you know has experienced sexual harassment, you can find resources and reporting options at: www.louisville.edu/titleix. UofL employees are mandatory reporters and as such are required to report any information regarding sexual misconduct, sexual harassment, sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking to the Title IX or Deputy Title IX coordinators. For more information about Title IX visit: www.louisville.edu/titleix UofL offers several confidential reporting options where individuals are not required to report Sexual Misconduct to the University. Individuals who want to talk with someone about an incident of sexual misconduct can reach out to any of these offices/individuals without their information being reported to Title IX. Confidential reporters include: The PEACC Center Counseling Center Campus Health Services Clergy & Chaplains Online Student Resources Subscribe University of Louisville 2100 S. Floyd St. Student Activities Center, W301 Louisville, KY 40208 You are receiving this email because you are a University of Louisville online student. If you choose to unsubscribe, you agree to no longer receive important UofL news and updates. Unsubscribe