No images? Click here May 1, 2022 Have a great summer, Cards! To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Commencement Schedule of Events Commencement will take place on Saturday, May 14, 2022. For a schedule of Commencement events, go to louisville.edu/commencement. Graduates must RSVP to attend Commencement University-wide Commencement honoring graduates from May 2022 will be held on Saturday, May 14, 2022 at the KFC Yum! Center. Graduates planning to attend should RSVP. Please be sure to log-in with your UofL e-mail and password using the format userID @ Louisville.edu for your e-mail address instead of firstname.lastname @ Louisville.edu Note: Master level graduates participate in the ceremony for the school/college where they take their classes, not the Graduate School. Example: MBA graduates participate with the College of Business. Students receiving an AuD, DMD, DNP, EdD, JD, MD, or PhD degree should not submit this RSVP form; communications from your unit's coordinator with instructions will be sent. louisville.edu/commencement/graduate-rsvp IMPORTANT INFORMATION Students are invited to Strategic Planning listening sessions May 2 UofL strategic planning process for 2022-25 is underway. As UofL moves forward, input from the UofL community is critical to the development and implementation of the plan. There are two listening sessions—one on Belknap and one on HSC—to update you on what has been drafted, to discuss next steps and to gather feedback, suggestions and ideas from you, our faculty, staff and students. Monday, May 2, 11 a.m., Student Activities Center (SAC), Rooms 116 & 117 Monday, May 2, 4 p.m., Kosair Clinical & Translational Research Building (CTRB), Rooms 101 & 102 The sessions also will be live streamed at: uofl.edu/livestream A draft of the 2022-25 Strategic Plan is available here. If you are not able to attend the listening sessions, submit your input using the online feedback form. Proposed Policy - Mgmt./Sharing Research Data A policy is being proposed on the management and sharing of research data. Please review the proposed policy and send us your feedback. The policy will be open for comments through May 16, 2022. Please email your comments to policies@louisville.edu. louisville.edu/compliance/ico/policies/proposed-policies-open-for-comments ACADEMICS Summer Registration Extended Summer registration is open for Continuing (currently enrolled) students, Newly Admitted and Non-degree-seeking Visiting students — Thursday, April 7 – Monday, May 9. louisville.edu/registrar/registration/registration-specific/specific-registration-information/#sum-fall Regular Summer registration and drop/add — Tuesday, May 10–Monday, July 11. Checkthe summer calendar for deadlines to add courses or drop courses for a 100% tuition reduction for each specific summer term. louisville.edu/registrar/registration/registration-specific/specific-registration-information/#sum-fall Fall Registration Open Registration Fall 2022 for Continuing students Saturday, April 2 – Wednesday, June 30. . louisville.edu/registrar/registration/registration-specific/specific-registration-information/#sum-fall WHAT'S HAPPENING Ride the Revolution with UofL UofL, in partnership with the American Heart Association, are hosting the Southern Indiana Cyclenation on May 14 at 2 p.m. Don't miss this opportunity to participate in a charity stationary cycling challenge for heart and brain health. Learn more and register at cyclenation.org/soin. STUDENT AFFAIRS PODCAST SERIES International Service Learning Program Be sure to check out the latest podcast from Student Affairs about UofL UofL International Service Learning Program. Check it out here: louisville.edu/student/podcast AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Who made a difference in your learning this semester? As a UofL student, you are invited to recognize your favorite faculty, staff member, or GTA for their hard work, commitment, and passion for teaching and student success. Submit a Spring 2022 Faculty Favorite nomination online here: louisville.edu/delphi/awards/facultyfavorites/nominate Nominations for spring semester close on Friday, May 6. All student nominations are posted on the Faculty Favorites Awards website. You can read all student nominations from last academic year and learn more about the Faculty Favorites Award program here. Submitting an online nomination is quick and easy, and your nomination means so much to those who receive one. Thank you so much for helping us recognize our outstanding faculty. UNIVERSITY HOUSING Rental Items Reminder for residents living on campus this summer: If you need to rent items like microchill refrigerators or lofts, place your order now with College Products at www.collegeproducts.com/. Rooms still available Rooms are still available for Fall 2022 for University Housing for first year freshman and upper-level residents. Please visit louisville.edu/housing for more information and to apply. Don’t forget, second year students are required to live on campus or an affiliated property. SPORTS SRC summer hours of operation Summer hours of operation for the Student Recreation Center are weekdays 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., Saturdays 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. and Sundays 1:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. Thank you in advance for your understanding and cooperation. GO CARDS! Congratulations to the UofL Men’s Rugby Club for winning the 2022 Collegiate Rugby Championship at the MAC Conference 7’s Tournament. SRC summer memberships Were you a student this spring, or will be next fall, but not over the summer but want access to the SRC? Summer memberships will go on sale Monday, May 2 for $50. They will be good until the start of the fall semester. Current IDs will be good until Monday, May 16. ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I am a student who is also a parent. Are there any resources available for me? A. UofL has a Student Parent Association that provides support for student parents. Find out more about the organization on their website louisville.edu/womenscenter/student-groups/student-parent-association. There are also several campus resources available which are listed here: louisville.edu/womenscenter/resources/family-friendly. DID YOU KNOW? The UofL ConcernCenter is designed to help you find resources on campus based on various concerns. Go to: louisville.concerncenter.com CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe