[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Master's Degree Programs / Online Master of Science in Materials and Energy Science & Engineering /-/images/pages/mese/2010_MSMESE_1596x740.jpg Discover the power of advanced materials and renewables mese mese-program-page organic ../../programs/bachelors/bachelor-of-business-administration?tab=apply Miriam Jones Online Enrollment Counselor Online Master of Science in Materials and Energy Science & Engineering The online master’s in Materials and Energy Science & Engineering (MESE) is designed for professionals within the field of materials and energy science wanting to significantly advance their careers and develop the skillset needed to support and implement new energy technologies. Meeting the rising energy demand is one of our greatest challenges, affecting quality of life, education and commerce across the globe. UofL’s online M.S. in MESE equips materials and energy scientists and engineers to better address this challenge and influence the quality of life worldwide. This multidisciplinary program delivers in-depth knowledge in areas such as materials chemistry and physics, processing, energy conversion and storage, and systems-level engineering. As a graduate of this program, you will have the expertise and practical skills to: Design, develop and enact potential solutions and technologies that advance the way energy is generated, stored and distributed. Better understand the broad social, ethical and professional issues related to contemporary science and engineering practices. Advance your current materials and energy science career and become a leader in your organization. Gain new employment within the materials and energy science industry, academia or government. Pursue further professional/doctoral studies in materials and energy science, engineering or a related field. This interdisciplinary program is offered through Dean’s Office within the J.B. Speed School of Engineering at the University of Louisville. UofL has a strong materials and energy science & engineering research community, consisting of established collaborations between the Conn Center for Renewable Energy Research and various departments across the university. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Other fees apply. Highlights Gain expertise and highly-marketable skills in areas including solar energy conversion, energy storage, biofuels and biomass conversion, solar fuels, materials characterization, and advanced energy materials. Develop advanced-level knowledge in key materials and energy science areas. Understand and effectively communicate about contemporary materials and energy science and engineering topics. Join a top Engineering school (as ranked by U.S. News & World Report) and learn from faculty with extensive applied experience. Complete your degree in just 1 year with 15-week terms, or enroll as a part-time student and move through the program at a pace that works for you. Take advantage of convenient 100% online classes with access to courses anytime, anywhere. Build a strong foundation to pursue doctoral studies in related disciplines. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Advance the future of energy science—on your schedule, from wherever is most convenient to you. Learn More 30 CREDIT HOURS Complete 10 courses, chosen from a list designed to prepare you to discover the power of material science. Learn More 4 AREAS OF STUDY Curriculum covers MESE fundamentals, energy processing, energy storage and systems engineering. Learn More "Materials and energy scientists and engineers receive the gratification that comes from working toward addressing the most important challenges of this century. Professionals in this area choose this field not only because of the growing job market and potential compensation, but to be of service to society by applying their engineering knowledge and skills to meet advanced materials challenges and energy challenges faced worldwide. The new M.S. in Materials and Energy Science & Engineering is a multidisciplinary program that prepares graduates for careers in a semiconductor manufacturing industry that targets improving our quality of life." Dr. Mahendra Sunkara, Program Director Conn Center for Renewable Energy Research M.S. in Materials and Energy Science & Engineering Why earn a materials and energy engineering degree? Our civilization faces growing energy consumption and subsequent demand challenges. Empowering our students and graduates to apply their knowledge to overcome this challenge through the creation and integration of new, advanced earth-abundant materials into cost-effective technologies lies at the heart of the UofL’s energy materials science online program. This undertaking includes important tasks like redefining our dependence on fossil-based fuels and low-energy efficiency systems – thus lowering our carbon impact on the environment – as well as finding new ways of attaining renewable energy generation, such as tapping into the immense potency of the sun. Aligned with the mission of the Conn Center for Renewable Energy Research, UofL’s online master’s in Materials and Energy Sciences & Engineering aspires to prepare professional scientists and engineers to innovate in these areas, ultimately impacting economic development, energy competitiveness, health, education and the quality of life worldwide. What can I do with a master’s in materials and energy sciences & engineering? Employment opportunities for materials and energy science and engineering graduates are predicted to continue growing faster than the average for all occupations, with a reported 10-year job growth of around 62% (CNNMoney, 2020) and a predicted median pay of over $83,000 (BLS.gov). UofL’s Master of Science in Materials and Energy Science & Engineering prepares students for career tracks in industries including semiconductor/opto-electronics, catalysts, and energy as well as to pursue entrepreneurship or join government and corporate labs. Graduates will also have a strong foundation to pursue doctoral studies in related materials and energy science and engineering disciplines. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Preferred Application Deadline Term Start August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete online application Submit $65 non-refundable application fee Submit written interest statement describing what motivated you to apply to the online M.S. MESE program, including previous experience in the field and how this degree will help you fulfill your career goals Submit current resume Submit 2 letters of professional recommendation Submit official transcripts of all undergraduate and graduate work from previously attended accredited institutions Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission in good standing requires: Bachelor’s degree in Engineering from an ABET-accredited program or an equivalent bachelor’s degree in Physics or Chemistry from an accredited university Successful applicants typically have a 3.0 GPA (on a 4.0 scale)* *Applicants can be admitted provisionally with a 2.75 GPA with approval, but must maintain a 3.0 GPA in the program to graduate. Note: No GRE required for admission. Transfer Credits A transfer of 6 credit hours from an accredited institution is permitted on a case-by-case basis. Students will work with their advisor to determine if courses transfer and department approval must be granted. International Students – Additional Notes/Requirements The Materials and Energy Science & Engineering master’s program is open to international students. Additional requirements apply. Degrees must be accredited within your region. All transcripts not in English must be certified as authentic and translated verbatim in English. Students whose primary language is not English must show English language proficiency by attaining one of the following: Total score of 80 or higher on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) Internet-based test or 6.5 or higher on the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) or 105 or higher on the Duolingo English score, OR Successful completion of the exit examination for the advanced level of the Intensive English as a Second Language Program (IESL) at the University of Louisville, OR Demonstration of a degree award from an acceptable English language institution International students will not be issued a U.S. visa if admitted to an online program, since there are no campus attendance requirements. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. The online Master of Science in Materials and Energy Science & Engineering is a 30-credit hour (10 course) program that requires 5 core MESE fundamental courses, 2 courses covering energy processing, 2 courses covering energy conversion and 1 systems engineering course or project. PROGRAM COURSES Hours MESE 600 Energy Science and Engineering 3 MESE 601 Advanced Materials Science & Engineering 3 CHOOSE 3 OF THE FOLLOWING FUNDAMENTAL MESE COURSES: 9 MESE 610 Materials Characterization: Microscopy & Diffraction or ME 675 Advanced Topics in Mechanical Engr CHEM 659 Materials Chemistry and Methods PHYS 575 Solid State Physics or ECE 542 Semiconductor Device Fundamentals CHEM 621 Electroanalytical Chemistry ME 675 Computational Modeling of Nanomaterials CHOOSE 2 OF THE FOLLOWING ENERGY PROCESSING COURSES: 6 CHE 581 Chemical Vapor Deposition and Processing MESE 622 Roll to Roll Processing CHE 655 (IE 600) Processing for Additive Manufacturing ECE 543 Fundamentals of Microfabrication and MEMS CHOOSE 2 OF THE FOLLOWING ENERGY CONVERSION COURSES: 6 MESE 612 Photovoltaics and Solar Fuels MESE 614 Biomass and Biofuels MESE 616 Electrochemical Energy Storage OR ME 572 Energy Storage MESE 618 OR ECE 531 Power Electronics MESE 619 Industrial Catalysis CHOOSE 1 OF THE FOLLOWING SYSTEMS ENGINEERING COURSES: 3 MESE 640 Engineering Entrepreneurship in Renewable Energy MESE 642 Techno-economic Analysis and Energy Policy MESE 644 Smart Manufacturing (Data Analytics & Machine Learning) MESE 690 Project* Total Credits Required 30 Online students have the option to visit campus and take advantage of campus resources for coursework and project completion, including labs and face-to-face time with faculty, although visiting campus is not required. International students wishing to visit campus will not be issued a student visa. *The project can be replaced with an external internship or practicum opportunity. Faculty advisors will assist in developing plans for MESE 690 completion. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions NOTE: Course descriptions and required courses are subject to change. Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link