Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Programs & Degrees Faculty & Staff Alumni & Visitors Future Students Undergraduate BSN Program - Louisville BSN Program - Owensboro RN-BSN Online Program ADN to RN-BSN Concurrent Enrollment High School Direct Admission Guaranteed Early Admission Accelerated Programs Second-Degree BSN Second-Degree MEPN Graduate PhD in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice Post Graduate APRN Certificate Master of Science in Nursing Financial Tuition and Fees Financial Aid and Scholarships Assistantships Student Advising Office of Student Services Technology Laptop requirement Current Students Current Students Information Student Affairs Advising Cardinal Confidence Program Counseling Services Family Scholar House Tuition and Fees Bursar's Office Financial Aid Financial Aid and Scholarships Assistantships Admissions Undergrad BSN Program Upper Division Technology Laptop requirement CNA CNA for Clinical Compliance Simulation Clinical Simulation Center Commencement and Graduation Registrar’s Office Programs & Degrees Program & Degree Curriculums BSN - Louisville BSN - Owensboro Second-Degree BSN Second-Degree MEPN RN-BSN Online Program PhD in Nursing Doctor of Nursing Practice Master of Science in Nursing Post Graduate APRN Certificate Faculty & Staff Faculty & Staff Information Academic Calendar Continuing Education Programs Employment Faculty & Staff Directory Human Resources Nursing IT Learn more about Living in Louisville School of Nursing News Sigma Theta Tau Intl UofL Bookstore Alumni & Visitors Alumni & Visitors Information University of Louisville Alumni Association SON Alumni Email Giving to the SON Research Office of Nursing Research Research Faculty Directory Faculty Research Interests Funded Research Publications Office of Research Services Research Services Staff Research Opportunities Upcoming Events Study Recruitment Patient Care Kentucky Racing Health Services Center UofL Care Partners Professional Resources Outreach Community Outreach Information Office of Community Engagement and Diversity Inclusion International Learning for Nursing Students UofL Office of Diversity and Inclusion Giving Home/ News/ Nursing students and faculty provide health screenings at National Farm Machinery Show Nursing students and faculty provide health screenings at National Farm Machinery Show February 22, 2022 UofL School of Nursing and several other Kentucky universities, in collaboration with the Kentucky Department of Agriculture and other partners, provided free health screenings during the National Farm Machinery Show at the Kentucky Exposition Center. Services included glucose, blood pressure, carotid artery stenosis, hearing and skin cancer checks. “These health services help farmers and agricultural producers remain at their physical best while providing students with real-world training,” said Cheryl Witt, assistant professor and lead organizer for this event. “This is an exciting experience for students as the show is one of the largest in the nation.” More than 71 undergraduate and eight graduate students participated in the four-day event. This is the second year UofL nursing students have been involved in the community-based health services at the National Farm Machinery Show. Witt says in addition to gaining a better understanding of the unique health challenges facing Kentucky’s farming communities, the students also develop cultural humility that can be applied in their practice. Funds for the screening at the National Machinery Show were made possible through a private donation from Mrs. Ann Mead to the UofL School of Nursing. Witt has received recognition for the work she is doing to bring attention to the mental health crisis among farmers in Kentucky. According to research, farming and agricultural workers have among the highest reported rates of suicide across occupational groups. She says her work to address this is personal. Witt is a sixth-generation farmer and nurse. She hopes the outcome of her work will help the non-farming community be more informed about what farmers do and deal with on a day-to-day basis. She also wants to help the healthcare community better understand the culture of farming in order to better relate to the farmer when providing care. “Farming is not just an occupation, but a way of life. The land, crops, livestock, family and facilities are all a part of the farmer’s soul. The attachment to these puts tremendous pressure on the farmer to maintain and be fiscally and physically responsible for all, because this is a part of their identity,” Witt said. Witt also the project director for Kentucky’s Raising Hope campaign. The focus of the grant-funded initiative is improving farmers’ physical and mental health. It is designed to provide farmers access to resources through research, prevention, intervention and community education. The platform plans to offer personal stories from farmers and their families. A hotline number also is available to offer real-time advice and referrals at no cost. “Having all these resources in one place makes it easier for farmers to find specific answers, but more importantly, Raising Hopes builds a community where farmers can not only speak out about their personal struggles, but it also offers real-life encouragement to support others,” Witt said. “Just by sharing experiences, farmers and farmer families realize they aren’t alone in their struggles and that it really is okay to talk about their feelings and seek help when it is needed.” For more information about Witt’s initiative, email her at cheryl.witt@louisville.edu. For more information about Raising Hope, visit www.raisinghopeky.com. View Photo Album on Flickr Tweet School of Nursing Health Sciences Campus, K-Wing 555 South Floyd Street Suite 3019 Louisville, KY 40202 Visit If planning a visit, view our visitor information. Contact View contact information. 1-877-81-NURSE 502-852-5825 Email M-F 8:00 am to 5:00 pm No Weekend or Holiday Hours About About the School Office of the Dean Accreditation Directory Employment KBN Program Benchmark Giving Giving to the SON Social Media Facebook Twitter YouTube The bachelor of science in nursing, master of science in nursing, doctor of nursing practice, and APRN certificate programs at University of Louisville are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education, 655 K Street, NW, Suite 750, Washington, DC 20001, 202-887-6791. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) to award associate, bachelor, master, specialist, doctoral, and first-professional degrees (D.M.D., J.D., M.D.). UofL Accreditation © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville