No images? Click here January 17, 2022 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews MLK Day of Service Join ELSB as they honor the memory of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. with a celebration of his life and service. Today, Monday, January 17, 2022 in the SAC W201. Event from 9am–12:30pm. Arrive early to secure your site, as spaces may be limited due to COVID-19 restrictions. Dress warm & with closed-toe shoes. louisville.edu/involvement/service/mlk-day-of-service IMPORTANT INFORMATION Applications due February 11 for University Student Conduct Hearing Council The University Student Conduct Hearing Council provides an opportunity for students to serve the University community, develop life-long skills in facilitating and resolving conflicts, critical thinking, assertiveness, empathic listening, moral and ethical decision making, and promote civility and citizenship within the University of Louisville community. Are you interested in serving on the University Student Conduct Hearing Council? If so, make sure to fill out the online application. Applications are due February 11, 2022 at midnight. louisville.edu/dos/forms/hearingcouncil Student Complaints Students are encouraged to resolve complaints with the person or department with whom they have a dispute. However, should this approach fail or be inappropriate, students may submit written complaints through the on-line complaint form. Once received, the complaints will be forwarded to the appropriate academic area or administrative unit for review. If you have questions regarding the process, please contact Samantha MacKenzie, Student Advocate at (502) 852-5787. louisville.edu/dos/help/student-complaint-procedure HOURS OF OPERATION Spring dining hours of operation Please go to the UofL dining website to see the current hours of operation. Hours of Operation are subject to change. Please refer to louisville.edu/dining or follow us on social media @uofldining for the most up to date information. ACADEMICS Spring Graduate Exam test prep schedule REACH and the Graduate School have partnered with The Princeton Review® to offer FREE graduate test prep workshops. Attend these live workshops from any device or join us in BAB 248 on January 19, at 5pm for a livestream with other test-takers. Free practice exam included in registration. reach.louisville.edu/workshops/graduateexams University Writing Center The University Writing Center is now open for in-person and virtual services. Writing consultants provide students feedback on any writing at any point in the writing process. Schedule an appointment online or contact us for more information on our resources. Creative Writing Group UofL creative writers are invited to join the Creative Writing Group for our first meeting of 2022. The group works together to explore creative writing in a safe, open, and encouraging environment. Writers of any genre and level of experience are welcome. January 19, 5:30 pm, Microsoft Teams. louisville.edu/writingcenter/for-students-1/creative-writing-groups Graduate Student and Faculty Writing Group Graduate students are invited to join the Graduate Student and Faculty Writing Group, which meets Mondays 5-7 pm in the University Writing Center (Ekstrom 132) and on MS Teams. louisville.edu/writingcenter/for-students-1/graduate-student-writing-groups PHST-200 Reasoning W/Data in Daily Life In this course, we will learn how to identify quantitative problems and tasks in daily life, summarize and interpret numerical information, and make informed decisions from analyzed data. Topics include data analysis in sports, finance, public health, and more. MW, 10 am–11:15 am. htmlaccess.louisville.edu/CrseCatalog/crseDescription.cfm?crseid=017069&career=UGRD&effdt=20200301 Become a teacher, MAT Alt Cert info session Join us for an online info session to learn about our Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) Alternative Certification! You will learn about the alternative route to certification and how our program can help you become a certified teacher! Register at https://forms.gle/YSkRNUCuRKKjRYen8. January 20, Noon, Zoom. WHAT'S HAPPENING Join us for the Virtual Spring 2022 RSO and Involvement Fair Visit our Padlet Page showcasing RSO's to explore some of our organizations all day on January 18. Get involved and learn more about our faith-based, cultural, greek life, academic/honors, sports clubs, and political student organizations. If you are an RSO interested in having a post for the fair, please upload a video, flyer, photo, etc. to the following link: https://bit.ly/3GnLivM KYNETIC biomed product grants and training Do you have an idea for a product that improves patient care or human health? KYNETIC commercialization, mentorship and grant info sessions will be held Tuesday, January 18, 9:00 a.m. via Zoom. Zoom link. All UofL faculty, staff, trainees, and students are eligible to apply. Open House —University Hazard Mitigation Plan Open House for public to learn about the UofL Hazard Mitigation Plan and provide input regarding ways UofL can mitigate hazards. Location-SAC, room 117 on Tuesday 1/18/22 from 11.30 am–1.30 p.m. For more information contact Kim Noltemeyer at kanolt01@louisville.edu Compas & Conchas Join the Hispanic/Latinx & Indigenous Initiatives (HLII) Compa Peer Mentors for delicious pan dulce (pasteries), with some chocolate abuelita (hot cocoa) and learn how to bordar (cross-stitch). January 19, 4pm, Cultural & Equity Center, Multipurpose Room. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7704681 Family Friendly Event Melanin Monday Join the Cultural Center for Melanin Monday. This is a time for students, faculty and staff to come together for a mid-day break and enjoy light refreshments and snacks while also playing various board games and community building activities. See you there. January 24, 1–3pm, Cultural & Equity Center Multipurpose Room. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7704323 Family Friendly Event Human Trafficking Workshop Join the University of Louisville Women's Center, People Against the Trafficking of Humans and United Against Human Trafficking for an interactive workshop on human trafficking and prevention. January 31, 5:00–6:30pm, Microsoft Teams. Registration required: bit.ly/3thsuKU. First-Gen Moving Forward February 2, 2022 4:30pm - 6pm College of Business PNC Horn Auditorium Come learn about educational opportunities beyond your Bachelor's degree that can help accelerate your success and achieve your professional goals. Tickets: www.eventbrite.com/e/first-gen-moving-forward-tickets-245810815767 SERVICE Campus Crusade Student Club info session Interested in serving others? Join Campus Crusade Student Club on Wednesday, Jan. 19 at 7pm in BAB Room 140. Find out how this student club is giving back to local childrens' organizations. Info meeting & service project will be conducted. Learn more at www.crusadecec.org. Peer Mentor program applications open Nobody knows the UofL experience better than YOU! Use your knowledge to mentor a first-year student through college transitions and to help facilitate student success. Peer Mentor applications are now open. Learn more and apply at uofl.me/become-a-mentor. RESEARCH Mind-Body Connection research study Participate in a two-session study (45mins; 45mins) to uncover how mental health affects physical functioning and health risks of young adults, ages 18-39. Participants will receive a $25 gift card. IRB#21.0432. To find out more, email: mbstudy@Louisville.edu SPORTS SRC and HSC Fitness Center closed Monday The SRC and HSC Fitness Center will be closed Monday, January 17, in observance of Martin Luther King Day. We hope you will engage in some form of community service and make it a day on and not a day off. louisville.edu/intramurals Men's & Women's Tennis at home this week Louisville Men’s Tennis hosts Dayton and Bellarmine Tuesday at 12 & 5 p.m. Louisville Women’s Tennis team host Cincinnati on Friday at 11 a.m. and Marshall at 5 p.m. Then finish off the weekend on Sunday against Miami (OH) at 11 a.m. Matches will be hosted at Bass Rudd Tennis Center. Basketball and Floor Hockey deadlines The Deadline to sign up for Intramural Basketball and Floor Hockey is Wednesday, January 19 at 4:30 PM. Check out IMLeagues.com/louisville to sign up. Men's & Women's Basketball at home The Men’s team hosts Boston College Wednesday at 7 p.m. and Notre Dame Saturday at 4 p.m. Wednesday the Men are celebrating Salute to Service. The Women’s team hosts Wake Forest Sunday at 2 p.m. Sunday’s game is Women and Girls in Sports Day. uofl.me/mbbstudenttix Battle of the Bluegrass at Wright Natatorium The UofL Swim & Dive team hosts Kentucky Saturday afternoon at 1 p.m. for a continuation of “Battle of the Bluegrass” Come cheer on the Cards with free rally towel for early arriving fans. gocards.com/calendar Get Fit, Don't Quit Would you like to win prizes such as an air fryer, blanket, protein powder, etc.? How do you win? Each day there will be an activity at the SRC (i.e. 10 pushups, sit ups, etc.) If you complete the daily activity your name is entered into the raffle to win one of the prizes. louisville.edu/intramurals SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Roundtable: Guidance for Growers Join the UofL Sustainability Council on 1/18 as we kick-off our spring Sustainability Roundtable series on alternate Tuesdays 4:00-4:50pm on Teams. Our first speaker will be UofL alum Marlena Wolf, a farmer, garden coach, and founder of Guidance for Growers Consulting. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/sustainability-roundtable-marlena-wolf-guidance-for-growers MORE NEWS Cultural and Equity Center newsletter now available The Cultural and Equity Center newsletter "Sankofa" is available to read at louisville.edu/diversity. You can view the PDF by clicking on the image of the newsletter on the webpage. ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. Are there resources on campus besides counseling to help with stress? A. Koru Mindfulness® is an evidence-based curriculum specifically designed for teaching mindfulness, meditation, and stress management to college students and other young adults. U of L Health Promotion provides Koru Mindfulness for faculty, staff, and students. To learn more, visit: http://louisville.edu/healthpromotion/services/mindfulness-meditation. Health promotion also provides a variety of programming that helps students build resilience so that they can handle life's inevitable challenges that cause stress. Ideas to increase stress resiliency include getting enough sleep, staying well connected with friends/family, moving your body (whether it be taking a walk outside with a pet or attending a REFIT fitness class), and/or feeding yourself whole and nutritious foods. For more information on how to get started building your stress resilience, visit http://louisville.edu/healthpromotion/ DID YOU KNOW? The Student Government Association is your voice at UofL. Be active and keep up with what's going on here. www.uoflsga.org CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe