[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Master's Degree Programs / Online MAT in Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education - Alternative Certification /-/images/pages/mat-iece/MAT-IECE_HEADER_1596x740.jpg Expand possibilities for young learners mat-iece mat-iece-program-page organic ../../programs/certificate-programs/online-mat-in-interdisciplinary-early-childhood-education?tab=apply Erin Elrod Online Enrollment Counselor Online MAT in Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education The online Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) in Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education (IECE) is an alternative certification program designed to prepare career-changing professionals and those with a bachelor’s in a field other than education to work as an early childhood educator. UofL’s MAT in IECE provides a path to the teaching certification for individuals who do not hold a bachelor’s degree in education. It develops your understanding and awareness of the latest and most effective pedagogy methods and prepares you to teach diverse groups of learners and address their unique needs. The flexibility of online coursework combined with alternative certification pathways will allow you to get a jump start on the next phase of your career. Completion of this Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education program leads to a master’s in teaching and a teacher certification. The MAT in Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education is offered by the College of Education and Human Development (CEHD) at the University of Louisville. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Highlights Gain the credentials you need to become a teacher – no matter your background or bachelor’s. Develop the skills to effectively work with learners from all backgrounds, address their unique learning needs and make education accessible. Learn how to construct and adapt instructional methods and curricula for your classroom to help students engage in critical thinking and lifelong learning. Experience a thoughtfully designed curriculum, emphasizing children's physical development, mental growth and socialization skills. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes and 24/7 access to learning tools. Learn from world-class CEHD faculty, who have extensive experience as teachers and educators. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION What is an alternative certification program? If teaching is your calling, the MAT offers you a path to become a teacher, regardless of your background or bachelor’s degree. The alternative certification program within the MAT enables you to immediately seek full-time employment as an early childhood educator in the state of Kentucky. While you have to complete the MAT program to receive your master’s degree and your initial teaching certification, once admitted as an alt. cert. student, you will be granted a temporary, provisional certification allowing you to get started on your new career right away! 100% ONLINE COURSES Become an educator on your own time through fully online classes. Learn More 30 CREDIT HOURS Earn your master’s degree and teacher certification in just 30 credit hours. Learn More $564 PER CREDIT HOUR The College of Education and Human Development gives back to teachers with a 25% tuition reduction. Learn More "This program is designed to prepare people for the classroom who have no previous experience, but it is also a great fit for someone who does have classroom experience and lacks their initial certification. The MAT curriculum is designed to prepare you to be an early childhood educator—no matter where you’re starting from." Betty Doyle, M.Ed. Program Director What will I learn as a MAT in Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education student? The expertise you’ll develop as a student in the MAT in Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education (IECE) program will prepare you to become an early childhood educator—regardless of your undergraduate background. Specific expertise gained from the program will include: Research-based approaches to planning and implementing developmentally appropriate classroom activities, lessons, and materials that develop literacy, mathematics, science, and social studies learning in young children birth through age five. An exploration of curricular approaches and teaching strategies appropriate for inclusive early childhood classroom. How to supporting families in providing interventions to infants and toddlers, working with families of preschoolers, and collaborating with other professionals and paraprofessionals. What is the job outlook for someone with a MAT in Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education? UofL’s online MAT in IECE leads to a master's in teaching and a teacher certification, and enables graduates to earn their Birth – Age 5 Kentucky teaching certification. Jobs that graduates may pursue include: Kindergarten Teacher Preschool Teacher Early Childhood Special Educator Developmental Interventionist Infant-Toddler Teacher Early Childhood Parent Educator Special Educator for IEPs/IFSPs Home-based Early Childhood Teacher Itinerant Early Childhood Teacher Nursery School Teacher The 2019-2029 occupational outlook for kindergarten teachers is expected to grow 4% nationwide, which is as fast as the average national occupation growth rate and have a median annual salary of $60,660 (bls.gov). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Application Deadline Term Start Date July 1 Fall* August May 1 Summer May *Applicants who wish to enroll in the Alternative Certification program can start in the Summer Term. MAT Alternative Certification applicants must obtain full-time employment before the fall semester, teaching students in an early childhood classroom. Applicants who wish to start in the Fall may enroll in the Traditional option first until they obtain employment. Steps to Apply Complete graduate application* $65 non-refundable application fee Submit official college transcripts from all previous institutions Submit current resume Submit 3 letters of recommendation Submit the signed Professional Code of Ethics and CEHD Technology Agreement form [PDF] and upload to your online application Submit a professional statement with your online application Complete a virtual interview with the program director Check for scholarships (optional) *Should you encounter any issues while completing the application form, please contact Betty Hampton, Director of Graduate Student Services, at 502.852.0411 or betty.hampton@louisville.edu. Note: Electronic transcripts are only accepted directly from the institution(s). Please have electronic transcripts sent to adetran@louisville.edu. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements: Bachelor’s degree in any field from an accredited institution Minimum undergraduate GPA of 2.75, on a 4.0 scale Minimum GRE or PRAXIS Test Scores as required by the Kentucky Education Professional Standards Board Note: when submitting test scores through ETS, use the general University of Louisville code, 1838 Minimum grade of C or higher in ENGL 102 (or equivalent) and oral communication courses Out-of-State Applicants Out-of-state certified teachers should be advised that we cannot guarantee that our program will meet licensure, salary, advancement or other requirements in their state. As part of the admission process, we will require a written statement confirming their interest in the program for personal development and that they understand the program is designed to meet Kentucky certification requirements only. For more information, please contact our academic advisor at betty.hampton@louisville.edu. UofL’s online MAT in Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education is available as both an alternative certificate and traditional degree. The traditional degree does not grant you the provisional certificate required to begin teaching immediately. Alternative Certification Ideal for those who want to begin their work as a teacher immediately, the alternative certification is a 30-credit hour program that will grant you with a temporary, provisional certification. Students must complete two prerequisite courses (EDSP 536 and EDSP 527) prior to beginning the program or within their first semester. Course List Hours EDSP 532 Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education Curriculum 3 EDSP 542 Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education Curriculum Field Experience 1 EDSP 600 Creativity and the Young Child 3 EDSP 515 Communication and Socialization in Early Childhood 3 EDSP 533 Inclusive Early Childhood Curriculum 3 EDSP 537 Infant/Toddler Instruction and Care 3 EDSP 584 Families and Collaboration in Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education 3 600 Level Elective* 3 Mid-Point Assessment: Prior to Student Teaching** Minimum Required Credit Hours 36 * Advisor approval needed. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Traditional Degree Path UofL’s online MAT in Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education is a 36-credit hour program, including two 1-credit hour field experiences and 6 hours of student teaching in your local community. Course List Hours EDTP 532 Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education Curriculum 3 EDPT 542 Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education Curriculum Field Experience 1 EDTP 600 Creativity and the Young Child 3 EDSP 515 Communication and Socialization in Early Childhood 3 EDSP 533 Inclusive Early Childhood Curriculum 3 EDSP 534 Inclusive Early Childhood Curriculum Field Experience 1 EDTP 537 Infant/Toddler Instruction and Care 3 EDSP 583 Early Childhood Special Education Assessment OR EDSP 583 Early Childhood Special Education Assessment 3 EDSP 584 Families and Collaboration in Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education 3 EDSP 585 Families and Collaboration in IECE: Field Experience 1 600 Level Elective* 3 EDTP 615 Student Teaching in the Elementary Grades (Primary) 3 Minimum Required Credit Hours 36 * Advisor approval needed. ** Prior to Student Teaching: Successful completion of all courses listed above; Positive recommendation from Program Committee (including assessment of dispositions and mid- program work sample). Electronic documentation of 200 hours of diverse and approved field experiences. Course Descriptions Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link