Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Human Resources Navigation Home Benefits Medical Coverage Dental Vision Life Tuition Remission Retirement Additional Benefits Types of Leave Flexible Spending Pharmacy Long Term Disability Short Term Disability Benefits Definitions Benefits Specialists COBRA Optum BenefitsBenefits Dropdown Toggle Medical Coverage Dental Vision Life Tuition Remission Retirement Additional Benefits Types of Leave Flexible Spending Pharmacy Long Term Disability Short Term Disability Benefits Definitions Benefits Specialists COBRA Optum Compensation Compensation and Total Rewards Study Job Description Instructions Compensation Analysts UofL Compensation & Benefits Survey FAQs Compensation & Total Rewards Study Timeline Compensation & Benefits Employee Input Survey CompensationCompensation Dropdown Toggle Compensation and Total Rewards Study Job Description Instructions Compensation Analysts UofL Compensation & Benefits Survey FAQs Compensation & Total Rewards Study Timeline Compensation & Benefits Employee Input Survey Employment Jobs at UofL New Employee Onboarding Manager Resources Employment Verification HR Business Partners Exit Surveys Contact Employment EmploymentEmployment Dropdown Toggle Jobs at UofL New Employee Onboarding Manager Resources Employment Verification HR Business Partners Exit Surveys Contact Employment Employee Relations Campus Accessibility Page Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Formal ADA Complaint Procedure Improvement Plans Unemployment Compensation Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Requirements and Procedures EEO/Affirmative Action Grievances Performance Evaluation Labor Law Posters Certification of Completion - Title IX Certification of Completion - Discriminatory Harassment COVID-19 Unemployment FAQs Kentucky Unemployment Fraud Information Workday Employee RelationsEmployee Relations Dropdown Toggle Campus Accessibility Page Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Formal ADA Complaint Procedure Improvement Plans Unemployment Compensation Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Requirements and Procedures EEO/Affirmative Action Grievances Performance Evaluation Labor Law Posters Certification of Completion - Title IX Certification of Completion - Discriminatory Harassment COVID-19 Unemployment FAQs Kentucky Unemployment Fraud Information Workday Get Healthy Now Employee Success Center Policies The University of Louisville Policy Statement as a Drug-Free Institution Definitions PoliciesPolicies Dropdown Toggle The University of Louisville Policy Statement as a Drug-Free Institution Definitions Forms Contact Us HRtalks and HRlistens Employee Resources Benefits Design Workgroup UofL Event Calendar Employee ResourcesEmployee Resources Dropdown Toggle Benefits Design Workgroup UofL Event Calendar Workday Home / Employee Resources / Benefits Design Workgroup Benefits Design Workgroup The Benefits Design Workgroup (BDW) is an employee representative group formed to provide university employees an opportunity for input into the development of university benefit plan options. The BDW obtained significant benefits knowledge during multiple educational sessions with UofL’s benefits consultants. During workgroup meetings, the BDW viewed benefit plan designs through an employee lens and, if needed, provided input on plan alternatives. The BDW will continue to meet, as needed, to further review benefit plan options and provide feedback to HR. If you have any feedback on UofL’s benefits plan, contact any of the members below. Jason E. Beare, M.S. Phone: 502-852-2278 Email: jason.beare@louisville.edu Completed Master of Science degree in Anatomical Sciences & Neurobiology in 2007. Joined UL in October of 2008 as a Senior Research Technologist in the Kentucky Spinal Cord Injury Research Center. In 2013, transferred to Research Coordinator in the Cardiovascular Innovation Institute. Served on the Staff Senate since July of 2016, and currently serve as Chair of the Staff Grievance Committee. Celeste Carter Phone: 502-852-5189 Email: celeste.carter@louisville.edu Director of Finance and Administration and Lead Fiscal Officer (LFO) for the School of Medicine and works within the HSC Financial Affairs Office. Worked at the University for 39 years with the last 20 years being in the EVPHA’s Office and the School of Medicine. Oversees the daily operations of the School of Medicine, authorizes financial and HR actions, provides high level guidance and advice to HSC LFOs, the SOM Dean, Chairs, Executive Directors, Unit Business Managers as well as other staff. Also works with the HSC CFO/AVP for Finance on various projects. Douglas Craddock, Jr., Ph.D Phone: 502-852-6158 Email: douglas.craddock@louisville.edu Serves as the Interim Vice President for Community Engagement & Chief of Staff for Executive Vice President & Provost at the University of Louisville. He received his doctoral degree from the University of Alabama in Higher Education and Administration. Dr. Craddock's area of expertise is diversity, equity and inclusion, organization and administration, and community engagement. He has a passion for helping organizations and communities identify processes and procedures that illuminate and elevate how individuals, teams, and groups can work more effectively together. In addition, he has experience in collegiate athletics and Historically Black Colleges and universities, focusing on varying administration and leadership models that exist across the spectrum of programs and institutions. He's been recognized as one of Louisville's Top 40 under 40, and has been a part of community organizations such as Leadership Louisville. Cherie Dawson Phone: 502-314-7133 Email: brenda.dawson@louisville.edu Serves as the Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs at the University of Louisville. She is also an Associate Professor in the Department of Criminal Justice and directs the Social Change Program in the College of Arts & Sciences. She is a passionate educator who is an exemplar of a justice-oriented scholar who focuses on the intersection of public policy and criminal justice with a specific focus on race, schools and juvenile justice. Throughout her career, she has worked tirelessly for institutional and community change, always striving to bring greater equity and inclusion to the policies and practices of organizations. She has worked with numerous school districts conducting professional development trainings and consulting on racial equity and restorative justice practices. Notably, Dr. Dawson-Edwards is an accomplished scholar with a variety of publications for scholarly audiences, policymakers, organizations and the community. Rick Graycarek Vice President, Budget and Finance Phone: 502-852-0823 Email: rick.graycarek@louisville.edu Virginia Hosono Phone: 502.852.0298 Email: virginia.hosono@louisville.edu Received PhD from UofL in Comparative Humanities in 2017. Virginia has worked for the university and at the International Center for 14 years. She is the Director of Study Abroad and International Travel and currently serves as the Chair of the Staff Senate's Policy and Economic Development Committee. Patrick (Pat) Harris, Ph.D Phone: 502-852-5371 Email: patrick.harris@louisville.edu Graduate with a Bachelor of Science and Master of Science in Electrical Engineering from the University of Missouri. Received PhD in Physiology from Northwestern University and has postdoctoral training in Microcirculation from Indiana University. Completed visiting Professorship in Biomedical Engineering from California Institute of Technology. Spent 54 years on Medical School faculty with 39 years spent at UofL. Served on numerous University committees such as Strategic Planning; University Committee on Fiscal Resources; Board of Directors, University Athletic Assoc., Entrepreneurship Advisory Council for College of Business and Public Administration; Mentor, Future Professors Program in College of Education and Human Development; Industrial Board of Advisors for Speed Scientific School; Benefits Design Workgroup; Search Committee for VP of Legal Affairs; and numerous Faculty Senate committees. Wanda Long Phone: 502-852-0059 Email: wanda.long@louisville.edu Received both her bachelor and master’s degrees are from UofL. She has over 30 years of experience, with most of her working career in college and universities as an accountant, auditor, and business manager. Wanda is currently the director of finance at the School of Public Health and Information Sciences (SPHIS), overseeing the accounting and financial operations of SPHIS. Wanda believes "we make a living from our work, we make a life by what we give. Likewise, only a life lived for others is a life worthwhile." In her spare time, she enjoys volunteering and doing home renovation projects. Desrie M. Nisbett, M.A. Phone: 502-852-8300 Email: dmnisb01@louisville.edu Joined the UofL staff in 2007 as a Program Coordinator in the Middle Secondary Education program in the College of Education and Human Development. In January 2019, Desrie became the Assistant to the Dean in the School of Nursing. Currently, she serves as a commissioner on the Commission for the Status of Women (COSW) and represents the School of Nursing as an Engagement Ambassador. Mary Rising Email: mary.rising@louisville.edu Received both her bachelor and master’s degrees from UofL. Taught in the Department of Mathematics from 1978 – 2012. Currently the President of the University of Louisville Association of Retired Personnel (ULARP) and remains involved and connected to the University as an advocate for UofL retirees. David Schultz, Ph.D Phone: 502-852-5938 Email: david.schultz@louisville.edu Joined the University as an assistant professor of biology in 2001. Currently teaches Cellular & Molecular Biology and Intermediary Metabolism. Research expertise in Plant Biochemistry where lab studies specialize plant metabolites with therapeutic applications (treatment of breast cancer) and plant lipids that can be used as renewable petroleum replacement products. The BDW works in conjunction with HR representatives, Kari Aikins, Director of Total Rewards and Mary Elizabeth Miles, Vice President of HR. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville