Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Louis D. Brandeis School of Law Navigation Home About Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations Admissions How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Diversity & Inclusion Part-Time Schedule Viewbook Admissions FAQ Connect with Us Admitted Students AdmissionsAdmissions Dropdown Toggle How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Diversity & Inclusion Part-Time Schedule Viewbook Admissions FAQ Connect with Us Admitted Students Academics Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars AcademicsAcademics Dropdown Toggle Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars Careers Staff Policies Employment Statistics For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Greenebaum Public Service Program CareersCareers Dropdown Toggle Staff Policies Employment Statistics For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Greenebaum Public Service Program Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Areas of Expertise Staff Directory Faculty Speaker Series Faculty & StaffFaculty & Staff Dropdown Toggle Faculty Directory Areas of Expertise Staff Directory Faculty Speaker Series Alumni & Giving Alumni News Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Give to Brandeis Adjunct/Part-Time Faculty Statement of Interest Request a Transcript Alumni & GivingAlumni & Giving Dropdown Toggle Alumni News Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Give to Brandeis Adjunct/Part-Time Faculty Statement of Interest Request a Transcript Student Experiences Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Student Life Student Organizations and Publications International Opportunities Public Service Student Fellowships Brandeis Mentor Program Externships Student ExperiencesStudent Experiences Dropdown Toggle Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Student Life Student Organizations and Publications International Opportunities Public Service Student Fellowships Brandeis Mentor Program Externships Student Experiences Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Mission Staff Events Student Profiles: Salute the Unbroken Student Profiles: Inclusive Excellence Past Student Spotlights Student Life Student Organizations and Publications International Opportunities Public Service Student Fellowships Brandeis Mentor Program Externships Home / Student Experiences / Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Welcome to the Office of Student Affairs & Diversity The Office of Student Affairs and Diversity (OSAD) welcomes you to another safe and inclusive space at Louisville Law. We believe in transparency, inclusivity, academic excellence and wellness. We reflect on these unprecedented times and embrace the changes that allow us to think of innovative ways to engage our students. The OSAD supports the Cardinal Principles and anti-racist agenda set forth by the University of Louisville. This office is dedicated to helping students develop a strong platform for student sucess and wellness. We offer support, organizational leadership opportunities and guidance while facilitating meaningful relationships among students, faculty and staff. Crystal Rae Coel, Esq., M.A. Assistant Dean for Student Affairs and Diversity Student Spotlight Emily Compton Class of 2023 What is your hometown and state? West Point, KY, which is about 10 miles south of Louisville. We have around 900 people, two gas stations, and one stoplight. What do you want to do after graduation? I will serve as a 2023–2024 term law clerk to Chief Judge Stivers of the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky. Afterward, I would like to practice at a large firm in Louisville, probably in torts and products or business litigation. What do you like about Brandeis/Law School? We have brilliant, caring professors, which I appreciate. But what I love most about the law school—and actually what brought me here—is the Ordered Liberty Program. Having regular intellectually stimulating discussions with people who share my interests has been my favorite part of law school. I also cannot say enough good things about the program’s mentorship. I am a first-generation college and law student, so having a built-in support system since day one has been invaluable. I can truthfully say that OLP has been the driving force behind my success thus far in law school and in my career. Who has influenced you the most? It wouldn’t be accurate or fair of me to choose only one. I am the product of every person who has taken the time to invest in my future, and that list gets longer all the time. Favorite Quote “Rhythm and harmony permeate the inner part of the soul more than anything else, affecting it most strongly and bringing it grace, so that if someone is properly educated in music and poetry, it makes him graceful, but if not, then the opposite.” - Socrates in Plato’s Republic See past honorees. Student Spotlight Brian Fields Class of 2022 What is your hometown and state? Fayetteville, North Carolina What do you like about law school? Learning about the wide range of ways that many different areas of the law can be used as a tool to improve the lives of others What do you want to do after graduation? I want to use my skills to help better the conditions of people in my community, especially the conditions for historically marginalized groups who have been deprived of equal opportunities as a result of systematic discrimination and economic oppression. My plan immediately after law school is to help individuals successfully exit the criminal justice system and have their rights fully restored so they can fully reenter society with all of the rights and opportunities they're afforded as citizens, and I plan to continue engaging with issues I care about such as voting rights, LGBTQ+ rights, criminal justice reform, and environmental/climate justice. Who has influenced you the most? My family, who has sacrificed so much to give me the opportunity to be where I am today, and my best friend Evan Jordan, who encourages me daily to be an empathetic and kind person. Favorite Quote “It is said that no one truly knows a nation until one has been inside its jails. A nation should not be judged by how it treats its highest citizens, but its lowest ones.”- Nelson Mandela See past honorees. Inclusive Excellence Celebrating the broad diversity at Louisville Law. Cameron Lyons Class of 2023 How have you changed since your 1L year? I’ve made a lot of positive changes since 1L year. I’ve become significantly more organized and have worked on my time management skills. I’ve also developed healthier ways to handle stress, such as exercising and hobbies. What is your favorite quote? “Be yourself; everyone else is already taken.” – Unknown Read more about Cameron. See past honorees. A Salute to the Unbroken Recognizing our active military and veteran students. Jeremy Gutterman Son of Jackie Gutterman What makes him most proud of his service? He is proud to be part of something that is bigger than himself. He said being a Marine is not something everyone can do so he is grateful that God gave him the ability to do it for those who can’t. He feels that he has a second family on whom he can rely and knows they will be lifelong brothers and sisters. Read more about Jeremy. See past honorees. Student Experiences Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Mission Staff Events Student Profiles: Salute the Unbroken Student Profiles: Inclusive Excellence Past Student Spotlights Student Life Student Organizations and Publications International Opportunities Public Service Student Fellowships Brandeis Mentor Program Externships News Honoring the 2022 Law Alumni Award winners May 02, 2022 2021-2022 SBA leaders offer perspectives on roles, future, goals Dec 13, 2021 Lars Smith named interim dean of Louisville Law Jul 29, 2021 Professor Jamie Abrams, School of Dentistry faculty, honored by Blackboard for innovative teaching Jul 20, 2021 The legal significance of Juneteenth Jun 17, 2021 More news… Louis D. Brandeis School of Law University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 Google Map Office Hours M-F, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. No holiday hours Contact tel +1-502-852-6358 fax +1-502-852-7299 Admissions: lawadmissions@louisville.edu General: brandeislaw@louisville.edu Quick Links Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Apply Now Give to Brandeis Law Clinic Intranet Symplicity Job Bank Social Media © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville