No images? Click here September 13, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews COVID-19 Pop-up vaccination events Campus Health is launching a series of pop-up vaccination events across campus to help us get our campus community's vaccination rate up to 80 percent. Do your part by getting vaccinated or encouraging your friends and classmates to do so. Each week Campus Health will update the schedule of where the pop-up vaccination events will occur next. COVID-19 Testing UofL's contract vendor, Bluewater Diagnostic Lab, has testing available for all university members on weekdays on the Belknap and HSC campuses. University members who are not vaccinated are required to get tested regularly. During the mandatory testing period, September 7–27, the first floor lobby at the Student Recreation Center and the SAC West first floor will be testing sights. Learn more. IMPORTANT INFORMATION Renter’s Insurance louisville.edu/housing/policies/renters-insurance In accordance with the Campus Housing License Agreement, we recommend that all residents purchase renter’s insurance. While we do not require residents to purchase this additional insurance, we encourage them to purchase this form of insurance due to the many benefits it provides, should the need arise. Check out our “Renter’s Insurance” FAQpage. University Integrity and Compliance Office louisville.edu/compliance/ico/hotline Raising compliance concerns is the campus community's responsibility. The University of Louisville provides confidential mechanisms to report activities that may involve violations of a law, regulation, or institutional policy. If you suspect or have knowledge of a potential violation involving university faculty, staff, volunteers, other university representatives, or safety of university facilities, let us know by sending an email to compliance@louisville.edu or calling the compliance hotline at 1-877-852-1167. For more information, visit the website at louisville.edu/compliance/ico ACADEMICS Info session Social Justice & Health Equity track Dr. Monica Wendel will discuss this new SPHIS undergrad degree track. This track will equip undergraduate public health students with the knowledge and skills to understand the historical, socio-political and economic context through which to engage for justice and social change. Lunch provided. September 15, 12 PM, HP 101. louisville.edu/sphis/academics Louisville Teacher Residency info session Join us online Monday, 9/13, at 4 PM to learn about the Louisville Teacher Residency, a 1-year urban teacher preparation program. LTR offers the opportunity to become a certified teacher in just 1 year. Register at https://forms.gle/hBQjUukemz6Eujtq9. Study Abroad Add a study abroad or intern abroad experience to your resume and stand out in the best way possible! Take classes abroad for your major or minor, intern with global businesses, government offices, or local non-profits in cities around the world. Request an advising appointment with a Study Abroad Advisor to begin your adventure: louisville.edu/studyabroad/forms/new-appointment/ EVENTS Virtual Study Abroad Fair The Study Abroad Fair has gone virtual! Attend 45-minute sessions September 13–16 between 3–6pm hosted by affiliated program providers. Discover scholarship and program opportunities for a summer or semester abroad. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7209142 Welcome to our new international students and scholars The International Student & Scholar Services office is here to assist you with any questions about your Visa status, travel, employment, and more. Be on the look out for dates on opportunities and resources including Optional Practical Training (OPT) workshops, International Meet and Greet Luncheons, and the annual International Banquet. The next event is: September 14. Optional Practical Training (Working in USA). Via Teams 2–3:30 pm. SPA Workshop: Safety Protocols for Children Want to learn more about protocols as it pertains to your child (children) on campus, whether in class or at events? Learn more at this virtual session facilitated by Melissa Renn Brown, UofL Youth Protection Officer. Register at this link, https://bit.ly/3jOErCL. More info? 852-8976 or 852-7715. September 14, 4:30 PM. louisville.edu/womenscenter Fall 2021 Career and Internship Fair This fair is open to all students in all majors! IN PERSON on the UofL Belknap Campus—Student Activities Center Ballroom, September 15, 2021, 1pm–4pm. This career fair is for internship and entry-level positions. Website. Volleyball at home this week The Cardinal Volleyball team takes on in-state rival Kentucky on Wednesday, September 15 at 7 p.m. Head over to L&N Federal Credit Union Arena to cheer on the team to beat the Big Blue. Admission is FREE for students. Field Hockey at Home this Week Over at Trager Stadium, the Field Hockey team looks to extend their undefeated run with two games at home this week. The team is hosting Virginia on Friday, September 17 at 3 p.m. and Iowa on Sunday, September 19 at 2 p.m. Admission is FREE. Cardinal Football at home this week Your Louisville Cardinals Football team will be taking on University of Central Florida under the lights of Cardinal Stadium. Kickoff is scheduled for Friday, September 17 at 7:30 p.m. Students make sure you get your Flight23 tickets for $10/month at gocards.com/students. Louisville Live at Churchill Downs Free student tickets for “Louisville Live”—the Cards’ annual basketball preseason showcase—are now available. The showcase happens on Saturday, Sept 18 at 7:15 pm. at Churchill Downs. This offer is limited to one free general admission ticket per student. To claim your free student ticket, visit uofl.me/LLstudents and use the promo code: CHDGA4UOFL raiseRED Field Hockey Student Night Hey Cards! Come show your support for Field Hockey and raiseRED all at once on Sunday, September 19 @ 2:00 PM at Trader Stadium. Admission is free for all students. www.instagram.com/raisered_uofl/ Ethics in technology October 1, 11AM–2PM. The Digital Transformation Center, in partnership with the Student Government Association and with a guest speaker from IBM, explores the social ramifications of ethics in technology. Info & registration: spark.adobe.com/page/1VFDpW5fq9wpP COMMUTER & TRANSFER STUDENTS Sweet Stops Tuesday, September 14, 2pm-3pm, Follow us on Instagram (@uoflcti) for pop-up location. Connect With Us Follow us on Instagram: @uoflcti Follow us on Twiter: @uoflcti Email us: commuter@louisville.edu Subscribe to our listserv: commuter@listserv.louisville.edu WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS Upcoming Intramural deadlines The deadline to sign up for Tennis Singles and Dodgeball is September 15 at 4:30 P.M. Sign up on IMLeagues.com/louisville with your UofL ID and password!! Tabletop Gaming Club in the SRC Looking for a gaming group? The Tabletop Gaming Club offers social gaming, ranging from collectible card games, boardgames, and RPG's. Open gaming is in SRC on Friday afternoons at 1:00pm in classroom 107 and lasts into the early evening. New players welcome. Wellness Watch The fall semester is in full swing and many of us are more active than we've been in awhile. Check out our latest Wellness Watch about dealing with sore muscles. Free-play volleyball is back Intramural Sports is happy to announce the return of free-play volleyball. Volleyball will be set up on the 3rd floor every Friday from 2:00 PM to 6:00 PM. Just make sure to bring your current student ID to gain access to the SRC and have fun. louisville.edu/intramurals Interested in playing with Special Olympians? On September 18 at 6:00pm on the 3rd floor of the SRC we will be hosting a Unified 4 v 4 Basketball Tournament. Our very own UofL Women's Basketball players will be the coaches. If you are interested in playing please contact Kat Halbleib at kphalb01@louisville.edu. SUSTAINABILITY Cards Commuter Challenge: week 1 winner Congratulations to our 1st weekly winner, Sustainability major, Ethan Johnson, who logged 8 bike commutes. Join him in the Challenge for your chance to win $750 in prizes. Bus, bike, walk, skate, telecommute, or carpool and log trips at directions.louisville.edu through 9/30. Carpool Friday is 9/17. Friday noon Workshop: Gardening as Resistance Join us on Friday 9/17, 12-1pm in the organic Garden Commons, for a conversation about how growing our own food collectively is an act of resistance to the dominate, capitalist, greed-driven culture. The fall Garden Commons Workshops series: 10/15 Medicinal Plants; 10/29 Trees; 11/19 Wreathmaking. OTHER NEWS Adobe Creative Cloud app online tutorials Attend an online live training tutorial for many of the apps included in your free Adobe Creative Cloud account. Learn how to get started with Photoshop, Audition, Illustrator and more. Discover tips for producing video, audio, and other multimedia. louisville.edu/digitalmediasuite/dms-online-classes ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I need help finding a job. A. The University Career Center is a great resource! The Center provides resume assistance, help with your job search, graduate school information, mock interviews, and much more! Visit their website at https://louisville.edu/career. You can also search for part-time jobs on Handshake, linked here: https://louisville.edu/career/images/handshake/login DID YOU KNOW? There is an Emergency Fund to help UofL students in need. To apply for assistance, go to: cm.maxient.com/reportingform.php?UnivofLouisville&layout_id=4 CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe