No images? Click here February 14, 2022 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Happy Valentines Day! Valentine's Day Trivia Night Trivia Night, with a Valentine's twist. Compete with friends and battle "love" for a grand prize. Questions will be "love" themed from movies, classic love stories, flowers, couples and more. One random participant will win a Nintendo Switch and the winning team will win UofL swag bags. Thursday, February 17, 6 p.m., BAB 218. louisville.edu/firstyear/events/ssc-success-series IMPORTANT INFORMATION Alcohol Policy If UofL students at least 21 years of age decide to drink alcohol, the university explicitly counsels only low-risk use and condemns the misuse and abuse of alcohol. louisville.edu/dos/students/studentorgnizations/alcohol-policy Tips and advice to avoid being scammed College students are a vulnerable population for scammers. There are scams that have been created specifically to target the college population. Scammers want you to make decisions in a hurry. Before you give up your money or personal information to anyone, slow down, check out the story, do an online search, consult an expert, or discuss it with a family member or friend. For additional information on how to avoid being victimized by scams, go to the Student Handbook and read Scams, Advice, and Tips at louisville.edu/dos/students/studentpoliciesandprocedures/student-handbook ACADEMICS Public Health Undergrad Minor in Epidemiology Students will develop critical thinking skills necessary to evaluate information on health and disease generated by epidemiologists and its role in shaping public health policies and actions. louisville.edu/sphis/academics Physiology undergraduate summer program in cardiovascular research The primary objective of this program is to expose undergraduate students from under-represented and under-served populations to cardiovascular research at the University of Louisville. This 10-week summer research experience is supported by an NIH Short-Term Training Grant. The deadline is March 15. For more information, please contact Denise Hughes, or visit the webpage. WHAT'S HAPPENING Melanin Monday Join the Cultural Center for a time to connect with students, faculty, and staff. The Pan-African Studies Department will be present during this time! Snacks and light refreshments will be served. Date: 2.14.22, Time: 1–3 p.m., Cultural and Equity Center MPR. 2022 Spring Public Health Career Fair Are you looking for a future career in the field of Public Health? Come meet employers in-person (SAC Ballroom from 10 a.m.–2 p.m.) or virtually (Handshake from 2 p.m.–5 p.m.) at this year's fair on February 16. Meet with employers to discuss volunteering, internships, jobs, and more. louisville.joinhandshake.com/career_fairs/29173/student_preview?token=cyeVboDvqSKi2Mr6of53Zi8hxl2Szz1x8-UhQi0Cl1bparU5KRs0gg Family Friendly Event How to help a friend Learn how to help a friend who has gone through a traumatic experience. When a friend confides that they have been affected by sexual or domestic violence, you might have been the first person they told. Join SGA and PEACC to help make campus a safer space for survivors. RSVP on Engage, 2/16/22, MS Teams, 4 p.m. Chance to win some fun prizes in a raffle. Family Friendly Event Join us for inspiration and free pizza Entrepreneur T.K. Coleman knows about living the dream—join us and be inspired to turn your dream into your reality. This free talk is Wednesday, February 16, 4:30 p.m. in the College of Business auditorium. Open to all. Volunteer Fair Honors Student Council is hosting a Volunteer Fair where students can stop at the Red Barn and volunteer for different organizations on Wednesday, February 16, 6:00–8:00 p.m. We will have stations set up for you to make no-sew tie blankets, paracord bracelets, dog toys, write letters, and make cards. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7866421 Family Friendly Event Dismantling Disparities: Education Edition Join ELSB and the Equality and Justice committee for a panel on disparities in K-12 education on 2/16 at 6 p.m. in SAC W116/117. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7805846 Family Friendly Event Celebrate your mother language International Mother Language Day celebrates cultural diversity. The Writing Center seeks multilingual volunteers to submit a blog post for our event on February 21. Volunteers will publish a work of their choosing in their first language to the Writing Center Blog. uoflwritingcenter.com Alienated & Polarized: A Divided America Join Adam Enders, UofL political science professor, and Tim Carney, senior fellow with American Enterprise Institute, for a conversation on how Americans became alienated from each other and the effect that polarization has on our elections and politics. Tuesday, February 22, 5:30 p.m., Ekstrom Library, Chao Auditorium louisville.edu/mcconnellcenter/programs-events/upcoming University Writing Center call for art The University Writing Center is putting out its annual call for artwork by UofL students to display in our space on the first floor of Ekstrom Library. The work can be in any medium and on any subject. All UofL students are welcome to submit. For more information, email writing@louisville.edu. louisville.edu/writingcenter AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Office of Diversity & Equity scholarships The application for various scholarships awarded by the Office of Diversity & Equity are now open. Scholarships will be awarded for the 2022-2023 academic year. Apply today. Deadline to apply March 1, Cultural Center and Office of Diversity & Equity. (April 23, Women's Center) (May 1, LGBT Center) louisville.edu/diversity/resources/students CODRE DEI Student Leader Award The Commission on Diversity and Racial Equity (CODRE) is accepting nominations for its 2022 DEI Student Leader Award. This award honors a current student, for their contributions to UofL's goals for advancing diversity, equity, and inclusion including efforts to build an anti-racist institution. Deadline, March 10, 11:45 p.m. https://louisville.edu/codre/Applications Provost's Award for Exemplary Advising Do you appreciate your advisor? Advisors provide exemplary service to the university and advocate for their students daily. The Provost Award for Exemplary Advising is a chance to honor their work. Learn more and nominate your advisor for this outstanding award at louisville.edu/advising/award RESEARCH Mind-Body Connection research study Participate in a two-session study (45mins; 45mins) to uncover how mental health affects physical functioning and health risks of young adults, ages 18-39. Participants will receive a $25 gift card. IRB#21.0432. To find out more, email: mbstudy@louisville.edu SPORTS Sign up for Intramural Outdoor Soccer The deadline to sign up for Intramural Outdoor Soccer is Feb. 16. It is FREE to play. Check out IMLeagues.com/louisville to sign up. Men’s Basketball back at home for two games The UofL Men’s Basketball team is set to host Miami on Wednesday night at 7 p.m. for the Celebration of Black Culture. On Saturday the Men are back at the Yum! to take on Clemson at 3 p.m. where Kids Day returns to the KFC Yum! Center. uofl.me/mbbstudenttix Women’s Lacrosse home openers The UofL women’s lacrosse team hosts Marquette on Friday, February 18, at 12 p.m. at the UofL Lacrosse Stadium. They will also be playing Sunday, February 20, at 11 a.m. against Central Michigan. Admission is free. gocards.com/calendar Women’s Basketball Senior Day Our Women’s Basketball team hosts Virginia Tech, on Sunday, February 20 at 2 p.m. Celebrate Senior Day, with a free senior poster while supplies last. See you at the Yum! gocards.com/calendar Fencing Club In the SRC The Fencing Club offers high-level instruction in all disciplines of the sport. Educational sessions are conducted in supervised, structured, and safe conditions. Practices are held on Monday and Wednesday evenings, and Saturday mornings in the SRC. louisville.edu/intramurals/sports-clubs Family Friendly Event SUSTAINABILITY Recycle your Electronics & win in Ecolympics Trash the competition, not the planet. UofL’s Sustainability Council & eSports Team want to help you keep useful, toxic items out of the landfill with our eWaste Recycling Drive. Drop off your old computers, phones, peripherals, cables, etc. at SAC, Ekstrom, Duthie Center, & HSC Kornhauser 2/16–3/16. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/ewaste-recycling-trash-the-competition-not-the-planet Draft UofL Sustainability Plan seeks comment The Sustainability Council has released a draft UofL Sustainability Plan, outlining a strategy for moving UofL to a Platinum sustainability rating. The Plan also incorporates a revised Climate Action Plan, and a Strategic Vision for Zero Waste. Submit comments by 2/25. louisville.edu/sustainability/news/draft-uofl-sustainability-plan-seeking-comment ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I am not doing well in a class. Is there somewhere I can go on campus for help? A. REACH is a great resource for students who need academic help. REACH offers study sessions and tutoring for 100, 200, and some 300 level undergraduate classes, academic skills development, workshops and graduate/professional test prep, and more. For more information visit www.reach.louisville.edu/ or call 502.852.6706. DID YOU KNOW? There is a Student Handbook full of resources including Academic Grievance Procedure, Bad Weather Schedule, Code of Student Conduct, and so much more. Go to: louisville.edu/dos/students/studentpoliciesandprocedures/student-handbook CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe