No images? Click here September 27, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews IMPORTANT INFORMATION Notice of Nondiscrimination The University of Louisville is committed to and will provide equality of educational and employment opportunity for all persons regardless of race, sex, age, color, national origin, ethnicity, creed, religion, diversity of thought, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity and expression, marital status, pregnancy, or veteran status—except where sex, age, or ability respresent bona fide educational or employment qualifications or where marital or veteran status are statutorily defined eligibility criteria for Federal or State benefit programs. Further, the university seeks to promote campus diversity by enrolling and employing a larger number of minorities and women where these groups have historically been and continue to be under-represented within the university in relation to availability and may extend preference in initial employment to such individuals among substantially equally qualified candidates, as well as to veterans. louisville.edu/hr/employeerelations/eeo-affirmative-action Its FAFSA time Students will be able to file their 2022-2023 Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) on October 1, 2021, using 2020 income and tax data. www.studentaid.gov The mobile app called myStudentAid has been a highly successful tool for students and parents to securely fill out the FAFSA entirely from their mobile device. The app is available in the Apple App Store and Google Play for Android. For specific help a student can always reach out to the Financial Aid office at finaid@louisville.edu or by phone at (502) 852-5511. Emergency Fund Are you experiencing a financial hardship from an emergency or accident, and need funds to help you stay in school? Check out the Student Emergency Fund application. Supporting documentation must be included with the application. For more information visit the website or contact the Dean of Students Office at 852-5787. CAMPUS SAFETY TIPS The University of Louisville Police Department reminds faculty, staff, and students that simple actions can reduce the chances of being the victim of a crime. Use the Card Cruiser for campus escorts, available between dusk and dawn at (502) 852-6111. Be responsible for yourself andyour belongings. Do not meet any unknown individual on or off-campus to purchase or retrieve items. Always maintain control of your purse, backpack, laptop, cell phone and wallet. Remember that alcohol and drugs impair your system and leave you vulnerable to others and crime. Always lock your vehicle. Don’tleave items in view within your car. Store important valuatbles out of sight. ACADEMICS More late start classes added More late start/second half of term courses have been added to the schedule of classes for Fall 2021. If you are looking to pick up more hours or change up your schedule, more options are now available. Check with your academic advisors for more information. htmlaccess.louisville.edu/classSchedule/setupSearchClassSchedule.cfm MA Higher Ed virtual event Are you seeking to work in the higher education field? The UofL MA Higher Education Administration is hosting virtual information session on October 05, 2021 at 11:30am. Gain the knowledge and skills needed to work and contribute to the higher education field. RSVP today via the online link! louisvilledelphi.radiusbycampusmgmt.com/ssc/eform/Kzx773C7705kx6700tG4.ssc Accelerated MPH degree program for any major Fall 2022, This option allows a student to complete any undergraduate major and the Master of Public Health (MPH) over a five-year period. Eligible students must have earned a min. of 75 credit hours and a cum GPA of 3.25 by their sixth undergraduate semester and submit required materials by Feb. 1. EVENTS Furniture Fair Join us at several events this fall! The Furniture Fair for Denny Crum Hall and New Residence Hall 2022 will take place Sept. 27 (2pm–6pm) and Sept. 28 (9am-12pm) in the SAC Ballroom. Our Upper-Level Housing Fair will take place on Oct. 8 from 6-9pm in the SAC Ballroom. There will be desserts, swag, and more at both events! louisville.edu/housing/options/development_projects/southeast-corridor National Voter Registration Day Join Vote Everywhere @UofLVE Tuesday, 9/28 from 11am–2pm at the Sac West Plaza (outside Red Barn) to learn about registering to vote or updating your voter registration. We will also have free paletas and fun items to give away! Register to vote at: bit.ly/cardsvote Working While Female: Virtual Networking Event Tuesday, September 28, 2021 5:00 pm–6:30 pm MS Teams louisville.joinhandshake.com/events/833068/share_preview In-person & virtual Majors Fairs Looking for a major? A minor? Thinking of changing majors? Meet with faculty, advisors & students from UofL departments. In Person on Wed. 9/29, 11–1, Humanities Quad (Rain: BAB) includes FREE Bootleg BBQ lunch. Virtual Fair on Thurs, 9/30, 11–1. louisville.edu/advising/majors-fair Vaccines and Variants: A Virtual COVID Forum The Envirome Institute welcomes UofL students, faculty, and staff to a virtual COVID Forum. The event will include trusted voices from across UofL's Health Sciences Campus in a hour-long Q&A panel moderated by student body president Ugonna Okorie. Sept. 30 at noon. Microsoft Teams. bit.ly/3tL7yKx Ethics in Technology Join the Digital Transformation Center, in partnership with SGA and IBM on Friday, October 1, 11AM–2PM, SAC Ballroom, as UofL faculty discuss the importance of ethical applications in artificial intelligence, automation, and algorithms. Hybrid event, registration required. Limited in person registration available here: www.eventbrite.com/e/ethics-in-technology-tickets-169000560225. The event will be broadcast live at: Digital Transformation Center YouTube More information: spark.adobe.com/page/1VFDpW5fq9wpP AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Apply by October 1 The deadline is fast approaching to apply for the 2021 Dr. M. Celeste Nichols Award for graduate & professional school students. Visit: louisville.edu/womenscenter/awards-and-scholarships/awards Scroll to the bottom of page for criteria and application. CLUBS, GROUPS, & ORGANIZATIONS LGBTQ+ Writing Group Are you a writer who identifies as LGBTQ+ or as an ally? Are you interested in practicing your writing in a safe, supportive space and getting feedback? If so, join the University Writing Center’s LGBTQ+ Writing Group. The next meeting is Wednesday, September 29 at 5:30 pm, Ekstrom Library 132. louisville.edu/writingcenter/for-students-1/lgbtq-writing-group KPHA 1st Meeting Kentucky Public Health Association meeting Date: 9/29/21 Time: 6–7pm Location: Studio Arts/ HPES Building Rm. 101 Cane's Chicken Catered For more details, email bschav01@louisville.edu She Became Starting October 13, 2021, She Became will be meeting virtually on Google Meets at 4:00pm. She Became educates elementary-age students about the various careers they one day may pursue. She Became is run entirely by college students, and we would love to have you apply to be a mentor. Register by Oct. 1. docs.google.com/forms/d/1OgAXEvRLCYLAIQNmgfXHt3iHcYafFMFYpvmF4vWfnPM/viewform?edit_requested=true WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS Suicide prevention program Cards SPEAK is a suicide prevention program that works to provide training and awareness campaigns to students, faculty, and staff while offering information and resources, reducing stigma, and promoting a community of caring individuals capable of assisting students in crisis. The Cards SPEAK program offers opportunities to participate in online or in-person training to learn more about mental health and wellbeing. Online resources are available for anyone visiting our website. louisville.edu/cardsspeak 5K Your Way The SRC is hosting our annual 5K Your Way event on September 29. Complete a 3.1 mile journey in any desired fashion! You can swim, bike, row, walk, or run your way to the goal. If you can't join us physically, tag us on IG @ulsrc with proof of completion. Show proof & win a T-shirt at a later date! www.instagram.com/ulsrc/?hl=en The SRC & Cultural Center present: Trap Yoga Please join us for an invigorating yoga experience as we offer our very first Trap Yoga. Brought to you via the collaboration of The UofL Cultural center, Counseling Center Office of involvement, and Delta Sigma Theta. This event will be located at the SRC on September 30, from 7pm to 9pm. bit.ly/uofltrapyoga Ice Hockey Club hosts SIU Edwardsville The Ice Hockey Club will face SIU Edwardsville this Friday evening and Saturday afternoon at Iceland Arena. First puck drops at 8pm Friday and 2:30pm Saturday. Tickets are $7.00 with student ID at the door. Come early and pack the stands as the IceCards take on the Cougars. cardsicehockey.com Field Hockey at home this week The UofL field hockey team hosts two games this week at Trager Stadium, beginning Friday versus Wake Forest for Pink Out Night at 4 p.m. and concluding Monday against Miami at 7 p.m. Admission is free. Come early to receive free pink pom-poms on Friday while supplies last. Women's Soccer at home this week Head to Dr. Mark and Cindy Lynn Stadium this week to see the women’s soccer team host Wake Forest on Saturday night at 7 p.m. Admission is free. Come early to receive free thundersticks while supplies last. Student season tickets just $10/month Student season tickets are on sale now. Become a “Flight 23” student season ticket member for $10 per month to gain access every home regular season sporting events for all 23 UofL sports—including football and basketball. gocards.com/sports/2016/3/4/student-tickets.aspx SRC Fall Break hours The SRC will be operating on a modified schedule for the upcoming Fall Break, October 2 through 5. The center will be open 11:00 AM to 5:00 PM on Saturday, 1:00 PM to 7:00 PM Sunday and 9:00 AM to 9:00 PM on Monday and Tuesday. The SRC will re-start regular hours of operation at 6:30 AM, Wednesday, October 6. Mind-Body Connection research study Participate in a two-session study (45mins; 45mins) to uncover how mental health affects physical functioning and health risks of young adults, ages 18-39. Participants will receive a $25 gift card. IRB#21.0432. To find out more, email: mbstudy@Louisville.edu SUSTAINABILITY Skate to victory in Cards Commuter Challenge Our 3rd weekly $50 winner, Alicia Fox from Dental School, avoided 16mi of driving by telework. Join her in the Challenge to win $750 in prizes! Bus, bike, walk, skate, telecommute, or carpool & log trips at directions.louisville.edu til 9/30. Skating Night 9/29 5pm, meet @ Blue Lot near Ville Grill. OTHER NEWS Earn a free U.S. passport It's not too late to apply to be part of the inaugural Passport Initiative Cohort and save $145. Current freshmen who are Pell Grant eligible and do not currently have a US passport can apply. This cohort is only for first-time passport applicants. The application deadline is October 8. louisville.edu/studyabroad/resources/iie-and-uofl-passport-initiative-1 ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I am looking for information on working out on campus and possibly getting involved in intramurals. Where should I go? A. The Department of Intramural and Recreational Sports and the Student Recreation Center (SRC) is the place to start! You can call (502) 852-6707 or visit their website at louisville.edu/intramurals to learn more about their programming and social distancing guidelines. DID YOU KNOW? If service is where your heart is, there are opportunities to volunteer year-round with the Engage Lead Serve Board (ELSB). You can find more information about ELSB at: www.uoflelsb.org Or if you want to do Service abroad, check out the International Service Learning Program: louisville.edu/islp CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe