Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Louis D. Brandeis School of Law Navigation Home About Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations Admissions How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Diversity & Inclusion Part-Time Schedule Viewbook Admissions FAQ Connect with Us Admitted Students AdmissionsAdmissions Dropdown Toggle How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Diversity & Inclusion Part-Time Schedule Viewbook Admissions FAQ Connect with Us Admitted Students Academics Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars AcademicsAcademics Dropdown Toggle Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars Careers Staff Policies Employment Statistics For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Greenebaum Public Service Program CareersCareers Dropdown Toggle Staff Policies Employment Statistics For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Greenebaum Public Service Program Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Areas of Expertise Staff Directory Faculty Speaker Series Faculty & StaffFaculty & Staff Dropdown Toggle Faculty Directory Areas of Expertise Staff Directory Faculty Speaker Series Alumni & Giving Alumni News Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Give to Brandeis Adjunct/Part-Time Faculty Statement of Interest Request a Transcript Alumni & GivingAlumni & Giving Dropdown Toggle Alumni News Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Give to Brandeis Adjunct/Part-Time Faculty Statement of Interest Request a Transcript Student Experiences Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Student Life Student Organizations and Publications International Opportunities Public Service Student Fellowships Brandeis Mentor Program Externships Student ExperiencesStudent Experiences Dropdown Toggle Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Student Life Student Organizations and Publications International Opportunities Public Service Student Fellowships Brandeis Mentor Program Externships About Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations Home / About / Our Commitment to Diversity Our Commitment to Diversity Fostering and sustaining an environment of inclusiveness is a priority at the University of Louisville and at Brandeis School of Law. The university includes a Cultural Center, LGBT Center, Women’s Center, Ali Institute for Peace and Justice and an International Center, in addition to other resources for students, faculty and staff. The university was also recently named the highest ranked public institution in the South for the LGBT community. At Brandeis, our goal is to achieve a climate of inclusiveness through mutual respect, fairness and social justice principles. We are committed to the diversity of our students, faculty and staff who join together in the common goal of preparing legal champions. We work toward this objective through a variety of initiatives and programs, including: The Central High School Partnership, a UofL Signature Partnership, is an effort between Louisville's Central High School and the Brandeis School of Law to promote diversity in the law profession. Brandeis School of Law's Diversity Committee also plays a major role in expanding the culture of inclusiveness. Established in 1992 as an ad hoc committee, the group has evolved into a premiere University organization that tackles hot-button issues such as affirmative action, gay marriage, the death penalty, the separation of church and state, racial profiling, voting rights and reproductive rights. Brandeis School of Law offers more than 20 student organizations that fit a spectrum of interests. For the first time in 2015, Brandeis School of Law, along with the Kentucky Bar Association, the Louisville Bar Association and the Legal Aid Society, hosted a one-day pipeline program titled, "Why Choose Law: Diversity Matters." The event is an expansion of a project created by the KBA Young Lawyers Division to promote interest among students who belong to groups typically underrepresented in law school classes. To learn more about diversity at the University of Louisville, visit the UofL Diversity Office. Additionally, Brandeis School of Law supports the Law School Admission Council (LSAC), which is dedicated to the idea that the legal profession must reflect the expanding diversity of our society. Visit DiscoverLaw.org to learn more about the LSAC campaign that encourages racially and ethnically diverse students to discover career opportunities in law. Equal Opportunity The University of Louisville is an equal opportunity institution. Read the university's full equal opportunity/affirmative action policy. Nondiscrimination The University of Louisville is committed to and will provide equality of educational and employment opportunity for all persons. Read the university's full notice of nondiscrimination. About Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations News Honoring the 2022 Law Alumni Award winners May 02, 2022 2021-2022 SBA leaders offer perspectives on roles, future, goals Dec 13, 2021 Lars Smith named interim dean of Louisville Law Jul 29, 2021 Professor Jamie Abrams, School of Dentistry faculty, honored by Blackboard for innovative teaching Jul 20, 2021 The legal significance of Juneteenth Jun 17, 2021 More news… Louis D. Brandeis School of Law University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 Google Map Office Hours M-F, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. No holiday hours Contact tel +1-502-852-6358 fax +1-502-852-7299 Admissions: lawadmissions@louisville.edu General: brandeislaw@louisville.edu Quick Links Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Apply Now Give to Brandeis Law Clinic Intranet Symplicity Job Bank Social Media © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville