Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection RedMed Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection RedMed Plone Menu School of Medicine Homepage Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Facebook Academics About Us Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni & Visitors About Us View Our Mission & Goals Strategic Plan Office of the Dean Accreditation Academic Departments Affiliated Institutes Future Students View All Future Students Information Admissions: School of Medicine Financial Aid: School of Medicine Student Affairs Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Programs & Degrees Distinction Track Program Integrated Programs in Biomedical Sciences (IPIBS) eQuality Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Financial Aid Student Affairs Academic Technology Office Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Distinction Track Program Integrated Programs in Biomedical Sciences (IPIBS) Office of Community Engagement and Diversity Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Faculty Affairs SoM Marketing & Communications Academic Technology Office Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Academic Departments UofL Faculty Mentoring Program and Resources UofL Faculty Handbook UofL Emergency Management Residents & Fellows View All Residents & Fellows Information Residency Programs Fellowships Programs & Degrees School of Medicine Admissions Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Academic Technology Office Student Affairs Office of the Dean Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Contact us Alumni & Visitors View All Alumni & Visitors Information Giving to the School of Medicine School of Medicine News Releases Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Office of the Dean Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Fellowships Contact us Research Research Information School of Medicine News Releases Cancer Research Research at the Health Sciences Center Medical Education Research Unit Clinical Trials Open at UofL Clinical Trials Unit Research Laboratories Contact us Patient Care Patient Care Information Pediatric Medicine Cardiovascular Care Ear, Nose, and Throat Eye Care Specialists Family Medicine Geriatric Care Primary Care OBGYN Services Surgery Sports Medicine Find a Physician 502-588-6000 View all services Outreach Community Outreach Information Kentucky Area Health Education Centers (AHEC) SoM Office of Community Engagement and Diversity HSC Office of Diversity and Inclusion Kentucky Cancer Program Clubs and Organizations Free Clinics Depression Center Outreach & Education Giving Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Tweet Navigation Home ShowAbout Us SOM Graduate Programs Graduate Faculty Committee Satellite Offices About Us Show SOM Graduate Programs Graduate Faculty Committee Satellite Offices Prospective Postdocs ShowCurrent PostDocs AAMC Postdoc & Mentor Compact Career Resources Employment Resources International Postdocs Living in Louisville Postdoctoral Handbook Current PostDocs Show AAMC Postdoc & Mentor Compact Career Resources Employment Resources International Postdocs Living in Louisville Postdoctoral Handbook ShowGraduate Students UofL Resources AAMC Grads & Advisors Compact Policies on Parental, Family and Medical Leave Graduate Students Show UofL Resources AAMC Grads & Advisors Compact Policies on Parental, Family and Medical Leave ShowFor Faculty AAMC Grads & Advisors Compact Appointment Letter Template Definitions of a Postdoctoral Appointment Guidelines for Appointments to Graduate Faculty AAMC Postdoc and Mentor Compact Sample Postdoc Appointment Letter SOM Minimum Guidelines for Graduate Education For Faculty Show AAMC Grads & Advisors Compact Appointment Letter Template Definitions of a Postdoctoral Appointment Guidelines for Appointments to Graduate Faculty AAMC Postdoc and Mentor Compact Sample Postdoc Appointment Letter SOM Minimum Guidelines for Graduate Education CRAFT Seminar Series Overview Graduate students and postdoctoral scholars make significant contributions to the dynamic research at the University of Louisville School of Medicine. The Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies aims to help graduate students and postdocs maximize this pivotal state in their professional development. This office is dedicated to enhancing their experience. We invite you to explore the materials and information that pertain to you in the pages of this site. Please contact the office with any questions, comments, or ideas that you may have about graduate and postdoctoral studies at the University of Louisville School of Medicine. Trainee Spotlight My name is Ernesto Pena Calderin, I’m a 4th year PhD candidate in the Department of Physiology. I grew up in a small rural town tucked in the rolling plains of Central Cuba, the largest of the Greater Antilles islands languidly bathed by the Caribbean Sea, with its northern-most point a little over 90 miles from the shores of Key West, Florida. Right before turning 15, leaving my whole family behind during politically tumultuous times, my parents and I were given asylum in the U.S. as political refugees. We have made Louisville our home ever since, and it was in this wonderfully welcoming city where I started High School, and later completed my B.Sc. in Biology (Physiology) from the University of Louisville in 2017. I had the great fortune to work as an undergraduate research assistant under the tutelage of two excellent mentors, Drs. Michael Perlin and Cynthia Corbitt at the Biology Department. Thanks to their mentorship and passion for science, I was captivated by the world of scientific research in the biological sciences and decided to pursue a PhD in Biomedical Research. After having the privilege of participating in the 2016 Undergraduate Summer Program in Cardiovascular Research for Underrepresented Minorities sponsored by the Physiology department, I became interested in the field of exercise, cardiovascular physiology and immunology. During this summer internship, I worked on Dr. Bradford Hill’s lab at the Diabetes and Obesity Center exploring the effects of aerobic exercise training and high-fat diet consumption in cardiac hypertrophy using a mouse model. Shortly after, I became an IPIBS PhD student in the Department of Physiology (class of 2018), and I currently work in Dr. Jason Hellmann’s laboratory at the Diabetes and Obesity Center. My research project involves unearthing the dynamic effects of polyunsaturated fatty acid-derived bioactive lipid mediators of inflammation resolution (SPM) in the context of obesity and exercise (or sedentarism). With my dissertation project, I would like to better understand how exercise can induce SPM biosynthesis, and how SPMs can in turn alter macrophage intermediary metabolism and related pro-inflammatory vs. inflammation-resolving phenotypes. After graduating (hopefully soon!) and completing my academic post-doctoral training, I would like to become a principal investigator and hopefully one day run my own laboratory. When I’m not at the lab bench, I enjoy hiking and doing wildlife and landscape photography with my side kick, Sir Charles Darwin, my fearless and adventurous Cocker Spaniel. Otherwise, you can find me scouting the newest breweries and cafes around town! Anouncements Pharmacology & Toxicology PhD Candidate, Andrew Orwick received a F31 fellowship award in April, 2022,, for his project entitled "The role of PGC-1alpha in repeated low-dose cisplatin-induced kidney injury and the progression to chronic kidney disease. Biochemistry & Molecular Genetics PhD Candidate, Danielle Little received an F31 fellowship award in January, 2022 for her project entitled, “Dynamic Role of Hyaluronan in Ventricular Remodeling”. Her sponsor and thesis advisor is Dr. Steven Jones. This grant is funded by the National Institutes of Health, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute. Physiology PhD Candidate, Ernesto Pena Calderin received an F31 fellowship award for his project entitled, “High fat diet-induced adrenergic dysfunction and resolution of adipose inflammation”. His sponsor and thesis advisor is Dr. Jason Hellman. This grant is funded by the National Institutes of Health, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases. Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies HSC Research Tower 500 S. Preston St. 3rd Fl., Rm 313 Louisville, KY 40202 Office Hours M-F 8:00 am to 4:00 pm No Holiday Hours Contact Katie Hasper 502-852-3805 Email Office of Graduate & Postdoctoral Studies Social Media Facebook © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville