Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Adult & Transfer Services Navigation Home Why UofL? Academics Visit Campus Online Learning Campus Resources First Year Initiatives Student Activities Board Recognized Student Organizations (RSOs) Athletics Why UofL?Why UofL? Dropdown Toggle Academics Visit Campus Online Learning Campus Resources First Year Initiatives Student Activities Board Recognized Student Organizations (RSOs) Athletics Cost & Aid Tuition and Fees Cost Calculator Transfer & Adult Scholarships Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Residency Housing & Residence Life Dining Services Cost & AidCost & Aid Dropdown Toggle Tuition and Fees Cost Calculator Transfer & Adult Scholarships Financial Aid Net Price Calculator Residency Housing & Residence Life Dining Services Apply Now How to Transfer Transfer Checklist Academic Unit Admission Criteria Admission Petition Application Fee Waiver Residency Fresh Start Policy Apply NowApply Now Dropdown Toggle How to Transfer Transfer Checklist Academic Unit Admission Criteria Admission Petition Application Fee Waiver Residency Fresh Start Policy Transfer Credit Transfer Credit Reverse Degree Credit by Exam KCTCS Degree Pathways Transfer CreditTransfer Credit Dropdown Toggle Transfer Credit Reverse Degree Credit by Exam KCTCS Degree Pathways Adult Students Adult First-time Freshman Adult Returning Student Project Graduate Senior Citizen Student Adult StudentsAdult Students Dropdown Toggle Adult First-time Freshman Adult Returning Student Project Graduate Senior Citizen Student ULtra Benefits of ULtra JCTC (Future UofL) Students Programs & Events Contact & Office Hours FAQs KCTCS Transfer Degree Pathways ULtraULtra Dropdown Toggle Benefits of ULtra JCTC (Future UofL) Students Programs & Events Contact & Office Hours FAQs KCTCS Transfer Degree Pathways Veterans Applying for Tuition Assistance Campus Resource Team Cost of Attendance Applying for G I Bill Benefits Course Certification for Veterans Benefits Military Spouse Info Official Military Transcripts Student Services Veterans Contact Us New Student Checklist Request for Military Withdrawl Application Fee Waiver for Veterans VeteransVeterans Dropdown Toggle Applying for Tuition Assistance Campus Resource Team Cost of Attendance Applying for G I Bill Benefits Course Certification for Veterans Benefits Military Spouse Info Official Military Transcripts Student Services Veterans Contact Us New Student Checklist Request for Military Withdrawl Application Fee Waiver for Veterans FAQs Contact Us How to Transfer Transfer Checklist Academic Unit Admission Criteria Admission Petition Application Fee Waiver Residency Fresh Start Policy Home / Apply Now / Academic Unit Admission Criteria Academic Unit Admission Criteria Each one of our colleges and schools have their own unique GPA requirements. Learn what it takes to get into yours. College of Arts and Sciences College of Business Division of Dental Science - Dental Hygiene College of Education and Human Development School of Music School of Nursing School of Public Health Speed School of Engineering Kent School of Social Work -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- College of Arts and Sciences Transfer and returning students must have a 2.0 cumulative GPA in order to be automatically admitted. Students with below a 2.0 GPA with be required to petition for admission. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- College of Business All transfers including intra-university applicants with less than 24 college credit hours must meet both the freshmen standards and transfer college requirements. Applicants with 24 or more transferable college credit hours must have a 2.8 cumulative GPA to be admitted in good standing. Applicants interested in the Bachelor Business Administration (BBA) must have 24 transferable college credit hours and a 2.5 cumulative GPA to be admitted in good standing. Students with less than a 2.8 GPA or dismissed from the last school of enrollment or dismissed from UofL must petition for admission. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Division of Dental Science - Dental Hygiene Admission to the Dental Hygiene Program is competitive. Minimum requirements include a cumulative GPA of 2.8 with grades of C or better in prerequisite science courses. For further information contact the department at 502-852-5081. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- College of Education and Human Development All transfers including intra-university applicants with less than 24 college credit hours must meet both the freshmen standards and transfer college requirements. Applicants with 24 or more college credit hours must have a 2.25 cumulative GPA to be admitted in good standing. Applicants with a 2.0-2.4 cumulative GPA will be admitted on conditional status. Students with less than a 2.0 GPA or dismissed from the last school of enrollment or dismissed from UofL must petition for admission, as well as the CEHD petition form Adult students interested in completing the Bachelor of Science in Organizational Leadership need a minimum of five years of professional work experience/industry training, military training, some college and or an associates degree. For more information, please call 502-852-0568. Students interested in teaching early education, middle grades, secondary education, art, physical education, or music must complete an undergraduate degree in an appropriate major and academic unit. They also must complete a pre-teacher education core curriculum to be followed by the Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) degree from the School of Education. For further information about School of Education programs, please contact the Education Advising Center at 502-852-5597. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- School of Music Admission to the School of Music is selective. To be admitted in good standing, students must achieve a 2.75 college GPA. In addition, students must pass an entrance audition. Contact the School of Music Admissions Office for more information or to schedule an audition at 502-852-1623. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- School of Nursing Admission to the School of Nursing is a two-step admission process: students may be admitted directly to the School of Nursing's Lower Division (Pre-Professional Curriculum) as freshmen or as transfer applicants. All transfers, including intra-university applicants, with less than 24 credit hours must meet both freshman standards and college requirements. Applicants with 24 or more college credit hours must have a 2.8 cumulative GPA, with grades of C or better in prerequisite science courses. For additional information call School of Nursing at 502- 852-1196. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- School of Public Health Transfer and returning students must have a 2.0 cumulative GPA in order to be automatically admitted. Students with below a 2.0 GPA with be required to petition for admission. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Speed School of Engineering Minimum requirements for freshman candidates are: • A high school pre-college curriculum, including chemistry, physics and calculus (or at least pre-calculus) • ACT composite, science and math scores of 24 or SAT combined scores of 1090 and math score of 560 • A 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 scale Transfer students should have a 2.8 college GPA including at least a B- grade in chemistry, physics and pre-calculus.Students with less than 12 transferable semester hours are considered in a similar fashion as freshmen students and must meet the admissions requirements for new freshmen and have a minimum college grade point average of 2.8. Students with 12-23 transferable semester hours will have a minimum college grade point average of 2.8 (including UofL GPA), Reading ACT of at least 20 or successful completion of ENGL 101 or equivalent and at least B-minus grades in each of the following courses: Pre-Calculus (MATH 190 or equivalent) and Intro to Chemistry (CHEM 101 or equivalent). College Algebra (Math 111 or equivalent) can be substituted for Pre-Calculus. Students with 24 hours or more transferable semester hours will have a minimum college grade point average of 2.8 and at least B-minus grades in each of the following courses: Pre-Calculus (MATH 190 or equivalent) and Intro to Chemistry (CHEM 101 or equivalent). College Algebra (Math 111 or equivalent) can be substituted for Pre-Calculus. Applicants who do not meet the above criteria may be referred to the College of Arts and Sciences as a pre-engineering major where they can begin taking general education courses applicable toward an engineering degree and strengthen their math and science preparation for engineering. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Kent School of Social work - Bachelor of Social Work Program Admission to the Kent School of Social Work is selective. Students are generally admitted after 45 college credit hours, must meet admission standards and a 2.5 cumulative GPA. Students interested in Pre-Social Work Curriculum (students with fewer than 45 college credit hours) may be admitted upon special review. For additional information call Kent School of Social Work at 502-852-3935. Some links read to PDFs. Download Adobe Acrobat to read and access PDFs. How to Transfer Transfer Checklist Academic Unit Admission Criteria Admission Petition Application Fee Waiver Residency Fresh Start Policy © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville