Skip to main content louisville.edu My Accounts email ulink peoplesoft hr peoplesoft campus solutions peoplesoft financials blackboard business ops cardsmart cardbox cards career connection Plone APPLY Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning DONATE CAMPUSES Belknap HSC Online Search All Sites This Site Search Parameters Search UofL Go Information Technology Services (ITS) Home Get Help Report IssueSelf ServiceChatCall UsRemote Session1:1 Assistance Email Log-inOffice 365 HelpPasswordsSpam Phish Malware Wireless Wireless InfoReport IssueCampus Housing Wi-Fi Tech Support Classroom SupportDesktop & DevicesHelpDesk1:1 Assistance Remote Work Report / Request Report IssueSelf ServiceULServicesNetworkPhones System Status ULink ulink-upgrade-imagesulink-upgrade-filesStudent ULink UpgradeEmployee Faculty ULink Upgrade Adobe Support Home ULink ULink Upgrade ULink Upgrade Our mid-July 2020 ULink Upgrade will provide extensive changes to how users interact with UofL's main information technology systems. Primarily a technical upgrade to the PeopleSoft Campus Solutions (CS) system, our students will notice the biggest improvement to their ULink experience. This upgrade provides a fresh look and feel while increasing usability – beginning with a new portal entrance and responsive navigation for everyone. students Optimized for mobile devices, ULink for Students has a new interface. Learn more faculty & staff Separate log-ins for different user needs – academic and HR related features. Learn more what's new? Buttons, Tiles and Distinct Categories No more tabs or endless listings. We've organized features, essential action items and user navigation needs. Students will see interactive Tiles for each of the services and tasks needed the most. Three ULink Log-in Buttons Let's get you directly into the system you need. We've separated access by the underlying system and functional services for each user group. Only the Employee/HR system requires two-factor authentication (UL2FCTR/Duo). Prioritizing the User-Experience Aesthetic changes, new icons and an improved mobile-responsive interface for students. You'll love the updated navigation listings yet already be familiar with UofL's most frequently used ULink pages. Academic Success Features With a new Class Search and Enroll process, students will notice some changes when registering for classes. Try the various filters for checking options in the Browse Course Catalog selection. general FAQs Where do I find the new ULink? What is the URL or weblink? ULink is still ulink.louisville.edu but you'll see three new choices for sign-on – different options for Students (all services), Faculty (all academic services), and Employees (all HR services). You can still find ULink off of the louisville.edu homepage, upper right click "My Accounts" for a popup box to all major systems or account links. Why three log-ins? What happened to the endless lists? We've prioritized listings for each type of user of our systems. Each log-in allows for direct access to the appropriate system for those roles where we feature the necessary offerings rather than all possible links available. While ULink is still the place that serves as the one-stop-shop for most things you need to take care of at UofL – signing up for courses, checking accounts, changing personal info, viewing paychecks – it now has a new look and navigation paths. We think you'll like the changes. Will my log-on be the same? Yes! Your UofL userID and password stays the same (well, until you change your password). Often referred to as your ULinkID and password, this combination works with each sign-in to all of our main systems to which you would regularly have access – including louisville.edu email, Blackboard and other important university systems. And as before, if you are having difficulty with your ULink userID or password you can always contact our ITS HelpDesk for assistance. I'm a student and an employee. Will I have to log-in twice? Yes, because these are really two different systems. We recognize that our users access ULink for different purposes. If you are in ULink to check your class schedule or financial account, you'll sign-in to the Student system. If you are in ULink to view your paycheck, you'll go through the Employee sign-in via the UL2FCTR/Duo process to access the HR system. It is the best way to keep your information separate and secure in both environments. I'm a faculty member, therefore an employee. Will I have to log-in twice? Yes, because you will need to access the appropriate system for the function required. We recognize that our users access ULink for different purposes. If you are in ULink to check your Class Roster or Course Schedule, this information is available in the academic or Student system. If you are in ULink to change your personal information or access tax forms, you'll go through the Employee sign-in via the UL2FCTR/Duo process to access the HR system. It is the best way to keep your information separate and secure in both environments. As a functional user, where can I find my shortcuts or saved favorites? With the upgrade, the manner in which you navigate might be different. Look for a dropdown under the icons on the red Navigation Bar in the upper right corner of your user ULink screen. For those looking to get to the HR or Financials system from outside the Portal, in the lower right corner, you will see LOGIN with a down arrow. Clicking it will provide options for PeopleSoft HR, PeopleSoft Campus Solutions or PeopleSoft Financials. How do I find out more information about update changes to ULink based on my role? We've got webpages dedicated to both Students and Faculty/Employees with more details about changes and helpful short videos on the most used items in ULink. You can search the videos by category or keyword. They are meant to help guide you through all of the new navigation, student tiles and functionality. ABOUT US TECH SUPPORT CONTACT US TWITTER INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES (ITS) Miller Information Technology Center, Room 109 University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 OFFICE HOURS M-F: 8:00 am to 5:00 pm No holiday hours. PHONE 502.852.6621 © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login email ulink peoplesoft hr peoplesoft campus solutions peoplesoft financials blackboard business ops cardsmart cardbox cards career connection Plone © University of Louisville