Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection RedMed Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection RedMed Plone Menu School of Medicine Homepage Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Facebook Academics About Us Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni & Visitors About Us View Our Mission & Goals Strategic Plan Office of the Dean Accreditation Academic Departments Affiliated Institutes Future Students View All Future Students Information Admissions: School of Medicine Financial Aid: School of Medicine Student Affairs Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Programs & Degrees Distinction Track Program Integrated Programs in Biomedical Sciences (IPIBS) eQuality Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Financial Aid Student Affairs Academic Technology Office Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Distinction Track Program Integrated Programs in Biomedical Sciences (IPIBS) Office of Community Engagement and Diversity Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Faculty Affairs SoM Marketing & Communications Academic Technology Office Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Academic Departments UofL Faculty Mentoring Program and Resources UofL Faculty Handbook UofL Emergency Management Residents & Fellows View All Residents & Fellows Information Residency Programs Fellowships Programs & Degrees School of Medicine Admissions Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Academic Technology Office Student Affairs Office of the Dean Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Contact us Alumni & Visitors View All Alumni & Visitors Information Giving to the School of Medicine School of Medicine News Releases Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Office of the Dean Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Fellowships Contact us Research Research Information School of Medicine News Releases Cancer Research Research at the Health Sciences Center Medical Education Research Unit Clinical Trials Open at UofL Clinical Trials Unit Research Laboratories Contact us Patient Care Patient Care Information Pediatric Medicine Cardiovascular Care Ear, Nose, and Throat Eye Care Specialists Family Medicine Geriatric Care Primary Care OBGYN Services Surgery Sports Medicine Find a Physician 502-588-6000 View all services Outreach Community Outreach Information Kentucky Area Health Education Centers (AHEC) SoM Office of Community Engagement and Diversity HSC Office of Diversity and Inclusion Kentucky Cancer Program Clubs and Organizations Free Clinics Depression Center Outreach & Education Giving Home/ School of Medicine Admissions/ Admissions Policies/ Criminal Background Check Policy Navigation School of Medicine Admissions Application Process Admissions Policies Residency Requirements International Applicants "Choose Your Medical School" Policies Early Decision Transfer Students Deferral Policy Technical Standards Criminal Background Check Policy Honor Code Diversity Vision Statement Notice of Nondiscrimination Student Resources Programs Why UofL? FAQ Contact Criminal Background Check Policy University of Louisville School of Medicine (ULSOM) Criminal Background Checks (CBC) Policies & Procedures Rationale To bolster the public’s trust in the medical profession To enhance the safety and well being of patients To ascertain the ability of accepted applicants and enrolled medical students to eventually become licensed as physicians To minimize the liability of medical schools and affiliated clinical facilities Administrative Guidelines CBC will be administered through AAMC on all applicants at the time of acceptance, and on alternate applicants at the request of the Admissions Office. Applicants must consent, submit to, and satisfactorily complete a criminal background check investigation as a condition of matriculation into ULSOM. Upon initial, conditional acceptance to ULSOM the AAMC selected company (Certiphi) will send an email notification to the applicant to obtain consent for the criminal record report to be conducted. In addition, the Admissions Office/AAMC may request that Certiphi send alternate list applicants an email notification to obtain consent for the criminal record report to be procured. If a report is conducted prior to conditional acceptance to ULSOM, the report will not be made available to ULSOM until the AAMC receives notice of the applicant’s conditional acceptance. Once consent has been provided, the AAMC selected vendor (Certiphi) will conduct a background check and produce a report. When the report is complete, the AAMC select vendor will send an email to the conditionally accepted applicant requesting that he/she review the report prior to its distribution. Upon receiving this email, the accepted applicant will have ten calendar days from the date the email is sent to review their report prior to it being made available to ULSOM. If they do not review this report or if there is no objection to the report, the report will be distributed after this period elapses. Omission of required information, including the failure to provide the consent, or submitting false or misleading information by the individual in any communication with ULSOM may result in withdrawal of conditional acceptance. False or misleading information discovered after matriculation could result in dismissal. Costs of the CBC will be incorporated into the AMCAS fee for College of Medicine applicants. All expenses associated with the CBC are to be the responsibility of the applicant/student. The conditional admission offer will not be considered final, and enrollment will be withheld until completion of the background check, with results deemed acceptable by ULSOM. If the results of the background check(s) are not deemed acceptable by ULSOM, or if information received indicates that false or misleading statements were submitted, required information omitted, or the if applicant would not be permitted to participate in any portion of the curriculum, the conditional admission may be denied or rescinded. Confidentiality of CBC files will be will be maintained consistent with FERPA guidelines and stored separately from students’ permanent files. Information available/sought through background investigation process The Criminal Background Check will include all convictions and conviction-equivalent adjudications plus all arrests regardless of adjudication (including not guilty, dismissals, etc.) plus all arrests without final adjudication/felonies and misdemeanors. The following databases are examples of those that may be examined as part of the criminal background check: Social Security Number Search A search of credit report header data to help confirm the applicant's identifying information such as name, aliases, address(es), Social Security Number and to determine areas of prior residence.. County Criminal Records Searches A direct search of county courthouse records for any felony or misdemeanor criminal history. All records are researched to help ensure positive identification and complete, easy-to-read details. Statewide Criminal Records Search A search conducted through statewide criminal records repositories or court systems for any felony or misdemeanor criminal history. Federal Criminal Records Search A direct search of federal courthouse records for any felony or misdemeanor criminal history. All records are researched to help ensure positive identification and complete, easy-to-read details. National Criminal Database Search A multi-jurisdiction private database search covering more than 194 million criminal records collected from across the country. While the database does not contain information from all states, it supplements county, statewide and federal criminal searches. To ensure compliance with Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA), all database "hits" are verified directly through the source of information to ensure that records reported are current and up-to-date. National Sexual Offender Database Search A search of a national private database which contains sex offender data collected from across the country. All records are researched to help ensure positive identification. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General List of Excluded Individuals/Entities Search A search of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General List of Excluded Individuals/Entities (LEIE), a database which provides information to the public, health care providers, patients, and others relating to parties excluded from participation in the Medicare, Medicaid, and all Federal health care programs. Search for Dishonorable Discharge from the Armed Forces Military records are verified through either telephone interviews with the subject's former commander or by obtaining the applicant's DD-214 form. Verification generally includes subject's name, Service Number, rank, dates of service, awards and decorations, and place of entrance and separation. International Screening International criminal records searches are generally performed by facilitating the applicant in obtaining an official Police Clearance or Police Certificate from the desired country. In those countries that have established third-party criminal records search facilities—including Canada and Great Britain—searches will be obtained directly through those channels. Criminal History Review Committee Criminal History Review Committee shall have six members: Associate Dean for Student Affairs, Associate Dean for Admissions, Associate Vice President for Health Affairs/Diversity Initiatives, Public Safety representative, School of Medicine legal counsel, and a mental health professional. Tweet Medical Admissions 323 East Chestnut St. University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 Office Hours M-F 8:00 am to 5:00 pm Phone View contact information for the School of Medicine. Email medadm@louisville.edu Social Media Instagram Facebook Twitter Youtube © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville