Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Human Resources Navigation Home Benefits Medical Coverage Dental Vision Life Tuition Remission Retirement Additional Benefits Types of Leave Flexible Spending Pharmacy Long Term Disability Short Term Disability Benefits Definitions Benefits Specialists COBRA Optum BenefitsBenefits Dropdown Toggle Medical Coverage Dental Vision Life Tuition Remission Retirement Additional Benefits Types of Leave Flexible Spending Pharmacy Long Term Disability Short Term Disability Benefits Definitions Benefits Specialists COBRA Optum Compensation Compensation and Total Rewards Study Job Description Instructions Compensation Analysts UofL Compensation & Benefits Survey FAQs Compensation & Total Rewards Study Timeline Compensation & Benefits Employee Input Survey CompensationCompensation Dropdown Toggle Compensation and Total Rewards Study Job Description Instructions Compensation Analysts UofL Compensation & Benefits Survey FAQs Compensation & Total Rewards Study Timeline Compensation & Benefits Employee Input Survey Employment Jobs at UofL New Employee Onboarding Manager Resources Employment Verification HR Business Partners Exit Surveys Contact Employment EmploymentEmployment Dropdown Toggle Jobs at UofL New Employee Onboarding Manager Resources Employment Verification HR Business Partners Exit Surveys Contact Employment Employee Relations Campus Accessibility Page Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Formal ADA Complaint Procedure Improvement Plans Unemployment Compensation Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Requirements and Procedures EEO/Affirmative Action Grievances Performance Evaluation Labor Law Posters Certification of Completion - Title IX Certification of Completion - Discriminatory Harassment COVID-19 Unemployment FAQs Kentucky Unemployment Fraud Information Workday Employee RelationsEmployee Relations Dropdown Toggle Campus Accessibility Page Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Formal ADA Complaint Procedure Improvement Plans Unemployment Compensation Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Requirements and Procedures EEO/Affirmative Action Grievances Performance Evaluation Labor Law Posters Certification of Completion - Title IX Certification of Completion - Discriminatory Harassment COVID-19 Unemployment FAQs Kentucky Unemployment Fraud Information Workday Get Healthy Now Employee Success Center Policies The University of Louisville Policy Statement as a Drug-Free Institution Definitions PoliciesPolicies Dropdown Toggle The University of Louisville Policy Statement as a Drug-Free Institution Definitions Forms Contact Us HRtalks and HRlistens Employee Resources Benefits Design Workgroup UofL Event Calendar Employee ResourcesEmployee Resources Dropdown Toggle Benefits Design Workgroup UofL Event Calendar Workday Home / Benefits / Optum Optum As of January 1, 2022, the administrator of our Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs) and Health Reimbursement Account (HRA) changed to Optum. Optum replaced our previous administrators, Discovery Benefits/WEX Health (for Health Care and Dependent Care FSAs) and HealthEquity (for the HRA). Updates/Reminders As of January 1, 2022, your Health Equity card was deactivated and you must use your new Optum debit card for your HRA/FSA account for expenses incurred on or after January 1, 2022. For questions related to your 2022 FSA or HRA claims, visit the Optum website or contact Optum at 866-860-7260. UofL now uses the rollover provision allowed under IRS rules, which replaces the grace period used in previous plan years. If you participate in either of the FSAs, the IRS is allowing rollover of your 2021 FSA funds until December 31, 2022 due to the pandemic. If you participate in the HRA, your balance (up to plan limits) will roll over automatically to Optum. You don’t need to take action. If you participate in the PCA High or PCA Low with the Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA), you can now use your funds for prescription drug expenses in addition to medical expenses! If you have both the Healthcare FSA and the HRA, you should've received one card from Optum with both account balances loaded. If you missed the HRtalks Benefits-Optum Transition Training, you can view the recording on our HRtalks webpage. If you missed the HRtalks Benefits-Optum Direct Bill Training, you can view the recording on our HRtalks webpage. What does the rollover provision mean? The rollover provision allows you to rollover up to a max $550* of unspent funds to the next plan year. A run-out period applies, which gives you three months to submit claims from the previous plan year, after which up to $550 rolls over to the next plan year and can be used for any expenses incurred in that plan year. There is no risk of forfeiture of funds up the $550*. Example: You have a remaining balance of $200 at the end of 2021. You can use that $200 for expenses incurred between 1/1/2021 – 12/31/2021. You have until 3/31/2022 to submit claims from 2021 to use that $200 balance. If you don’t use the full $200 by 3/31/2022 the remaining balance will roll-over to 2022 and can be used for any expenses incurred in calendar year 2022. * Special extension: Due to the pandemic, the IRS is allowing any unused amounts in employees’ 2021 Health Care and/or Dependent Care FSAs to roll into 2022 Flexible Spending Accounts (FSAs) Learn more about UofL's FSAs by visiting our FSA webpage. 2021 FSA Claims & Balances Manual claims can be submitted for reimbursement to WEX/Discovery for FSA expenses incurred in 2021 during the run-out period between 1/1 – 4/15/2022. Two Options for for using your 2021 funds during the run-out period: The "pay me back" option: Submit a receipt and request reimbursement via check or electronic funds transfer (EFT) The "pay my provider" option: Submit a bill or invoice and have a check sent directly to your provider At the end of the 2021 run-out periods, any unspent FSA balances from 2021 will be transferred from Discovery and rolled over to Optum. The 2021 FSA rollover balances will then be added to your 2022 account balance with Optum and accessible to you on or around 5/1/2022. For 2021 FSA claims or account questions, go to wexinc.com or contact WEX/Discovery at 1-866-451-3399. Health Care Flexible Spending Account The Health Care (FSA) annual employee contributions are available to use beginning January 1, 2021. You may use these funds for you and your dependents. The maximum annual employee contribution limit for a Health Care Flexible Spending Account (FSA) is $2,850. What is Health Care FSA? View Eligible Expenses Dependent Care Flexible Spending Account The Dependent Care (FSA) annual employee contributions accumulate on a per pay period basis. You may use these funds to reimburse you for daycare and children's camp expenses. The maximum annual employee and household contribution limit for Dependent Care FSA is $5,000. What is Dependent Care FSA? View Eligible Expenses Review the Dependent Care FSA Updated Legislation Health Reimbursement Accounts (HRAs) Learn more about UofL's HRAs by visiting our HRA webpage. 2021 HRA Claims & Balances Manual claims can be submitted for reimbursement to HealthEquity for HRA expenses incurred in 2021 during the run-out period between 1/1/2021 – 3/31/2022. Two options for using your 2021 funds during the run-out period: The “pay me back” option: Submit a receipt and request reimbursement via check or electronic funds transfer (EFT) The “pay my provider” option: Submit a bill or invoice and have a check sent directly to your provider At the end of the 2021 run-out period, any unspent HRA balances from 2021 will be transferred from HealthEquity and rolled over to Optum. The 2021 HRA rollover balances will then be added to your 2022 account balance with Optum and accessible to you on or around 5/1/2022. For 2021 HRA claims or account questions, go to HealthEquity.com or contact Health Equity at 1-877-472-8632. Utilizing the Optum Card for both HRAs and FSAs in 2022 Cards will be loaded with your 2022 Healthcare FSA election and/or your 2022 employer HRA contribution if you participate in the PCA High or PCA Low Plan. “Stacking Order” refers to the way in which funds will be dispersed from your accounts when using your card. For medical and prescription drug expenses, the card will first pull from the HRA and then the Health Care FSA, unless you choose otherwise. If you would like funds to be deducted from your FSA first, you will need to submit a claim form to Optum. For vision and dental expenses, the card will automatically pull from the HC FSA since those are ineligible expenses under the HRA. Additional Resources Optum has a lot of great resources for participants. The Optum website offers guides, calculators, etc. You can also check out some helpful information listed below. Optum Mobile App Tips for spending FSA dollars View the Optum HRtalks-Direct Bill training recording. View the Optum HRtalks-transition training recording. View the Optum Reimbursement Instructions & Claims Form (PDF) Questions about your benefits? Please email benefits@louisville.edu. If you want to speak with your benefits counselor, click here to view the benefits contact page! Please also refer to our Benefits Definition page for benefit terminology. Benefits Medical Prescription Drugs Dental Vision Life Insurance Flexible Spending Accounts Health Reimbursement Accounts Short-term Disability Long-term Disability Retirement Education Benefits Qualifying Life Events Time Off Wellness Leaving the University Other Benefits Benefit Forms Contact Benefits © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville