Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute Navigation Home Welcome About Cores Community Professional Development Tracking & Evaluation Pilots Ethics & Regulatory Clinical Research Resources Clinical Research Design KBRIN Sponsored Bioinformatics Core Core Laboratories CoresCores Dropdown Toggle Community Professional Development Tracking & Evaluation Pilots Ethics & Regulatory Clinical Research Resources Clinical Research Design KBRIN Sponsored Bioinformatics Core Core Laboratories CTSI Areas of Excellence Pilot Project Grants Pilot Project Core Issues Request for Applications NIH/NIGMS COBRE Phase III Pilot Project Program Pilot Project GrantsPilot Project Grants Dropdown Toggle Pilot Project Core Issues Request for Applications NIH/NIGMS COBRE Phase III Pilot Project Program CTSI From start to finish, we’re working to translate our medical research into real world solutions with a spirit of energy and excitement. The Clinical Translational Research Building Supporting the region’s growing research needs for biomedical and oncology research An expansive modern lab design The facility houses 5 floors of biomedical research labs including 4 BL3 labs. Moving to positively impact health outcomes By developing a collaborative clinical and translational research infrastructure across Kentucky Recent News More Mar 06, 2019 UofL researcher: Loneliness is a risk factor for heart disease Mar 01, 2019 UofL diabetes prevention program earns CDC recognition Dec 13, 2018 HSC Research Forum Slides (12/11/18) Mar 02, 2018 UofL Researchers Find Unhealthy Levels of Chemicals in Homes of Older Adults Upcoming Events 25th KY Spinal Cord & Head Injury Research Trust Symposium May 15-16 CTSI Research Strategy Meeting, Fridays, 2:30pm, CTRB-501 Full calendar Connect & Collaborate University of Louisville Investigator Network is a community of researchers. Its mission is to foster and facilitate collaborations among researchers and trainees by creating an environment that values and supports investigators with diverse research interests. Its searchable database is the network’s tool for querying expertise and establishing professional connections for team science. InNet will represent the diverse spectrum of scientific expertise and skills that exist at UofL and the affiliated institutions in our community. UofL CTSI Tweets by LOUCTSI UofL HSC Research Tweets by ULHSCRO Research Spotlight Clinical Trials Unit Cytotoxic T-Cells in Action Information Aims Partners Affiliated Offices The UofL and its Health Partners serve a highly diverse patient population, including many underrepresented and medical underserved groups. Our overall goals are to develop a collaborative clinical and translational research infrastructure across Kentucky and with partnering IDeA CTRs (Clinical and Translational Resources) and CTSAs (Clinical and Translational Science Awards) that will positively impact the health outcomes; and to develop an interactive professional development program that will create a pipeline for the next generation of clinical and translational investigators. We will achieve these goals through the following 4 Specific Aims: Expand and fully integrate the “academic home” for clinical and translational research (CTR). This academic home will provide a physical and intellectual home for investigators from multiple disciplines to interact and synergize. It will serve as an interaction hub for members of the community, academic and community physicians, industry, and foundations, to communicate and build alliances and IDeA-CTR collaborations. Our alliances now extend to a healthcare network across Kentucky (KentuckyOne) and across the U.S. (Catholic Health Initiatives-CHI). This CTSI/IDeA-CTR has an established governance structure to oversee and coordinate all aspects of the CTSI as well as to transcend intra- and inter-institutional boundaries. Create a multidisciplinary program in research training, education and career development, including utilizing advanced degrees to train the next generation of clinical and translational investigators. This mentoring program supports “Strategy to Optimize Success (SOS)” scholars and utilizes multiple other interdisciplinary training/mentoring programs created since obtaining a CTSA Planning grant in 2007 for diverse types of translational investigators. It focuses heavily on mentoring/career development. Mentoring teams have been developed as part of our education/mentoring program, with multiple interactions among translational investigators across UofL, including those in the schools of dentistry, nursing, public health, engineering, arts and sciences, social work, and basic sciences, as well as collaborating institutions other IDeA CTRs and CTSAs. A comprehensive pilot program will further support the development of these translational investigators. Develop Key Component Activities (KCA) that provide the necessary clinical research resources and translational technologies to create novel, clinical and translational research. A coordinated infrastructure of core research resources will be provided and regularly monitored for use and quality assurance. Important training relating to areas such as biostatistics, clinical trial design, and core translational tools, such as “omics” are critical components of our KCAs. These research resources will provide investigators, especially junior investigators, with “one stop shopping” for performing clinical research and accessing translational research technologies. Support community and academic scientists/educators to fully engage with the unique and highly diverse population of Kentucky in research, health care and medical advances to reduce chronic diseases and improve the overall health/well being of Kentuckians. Kentucky is unfortunate in that it leads the nation in many chronic diseases and in many environmentally related problems. Community clinicians and UofL serve a unique patient population. Our African-American, Hispanic, Appalachian, and indigent populations as well as those experiencing health disparities are large, and they are disproportionately afflicted with chronic diseases. Thus, the CTSI and community partners are uniquely well situated to perform clinical and translational research and positively impact health with multiple diverse/minority populations. KentuckyOne Healthcare LSU CTR West Virginia University CTR University of Cincinnati CTSA University of Kentucky CTSA Commercialization EPI-Center Office of Research and Innovation Clinical & Translational Sciences Institute University of Louisville 505 South Hancock Street Louisville, Kentucky 40202 Get directions Office Hours M-F 8:00am to 4:30 pm No holiday hours Contact Us T: (502) 852‒1388 F: (502) 852‒8927 CTSI Service Account Get a Consultation Schedule a Consultation with a CTSI Core Member Social Media FlickrQC Follow @louctsi Facebook Pinterest LinkedIn Google+ © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville