[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Graduate Certificate in African American Theatre /-/images/pages/gcaat/GC-AAT-WEBSITE_HEADER_1596x740.jpg Cultivating equality in the arts. gcaat gcaat-program-page organic ../../programs/bachelors/bachelor-of-arts-in-sociology?tab=apply Chester Morton Online Enrollment Counselor Online Graduate Certificate in African American Theatre The online Graduate Certificate in African American Theatre is designed for educators and theatre professionals holding a bachelor’s degree who want to enrich their cultural understanding of Black society and Black aesthetic as well as develop the skills to translate that knowledge into their creative work. UofL’s certificate in African American Theatre provides students with a knowledge base and a skillset that can be applied not just to their art, but also to their efforts toward community building and for social justice transformation. Graduates will develop the ability to discuss in depth the contemporary and historical contributions of Black Diasporic artists to drama and performance, a stronger understanding of Critical Race Theory, and the ability to confidently engage in conversations about global theatre in a way that includes groups who were previously excluded from the conversation. This certificate is ideal for anyone who is engaged in their community through culture or art including thespians, playwrights, dramaturges, educators and more. The Graduate Certificate in African American Theatre Certificate is offered by the College of Arts & Sciences at the University of Louisville. Overview Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Highlights Become an alum of a one-of-a-kind program—the only credit-bearing African American Theatre studies graduate certificate program online in the nation. Experience a thoughtfully designed curriculum, emphasizing the impact of the Black Diaspora on theatre as we know it today. Develop a stronger lens of Critical Race Theory and be able to discuss and articulate the vision for a more inclusive future for American Theatre. Grow your community-building skillset by expanding your expertise in LGBTQ and African American culture and art. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes and 24/7 access to learning tools. Learn from world-class faculty, who have extensive experience in the performing arts, related discipline and as educators. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Stronger cultural knowledge and stronger base to work from—available fully online. 5 COURSES Earn your graduate certificate in just 5 courses (15 credit hours). 1 OF A KIND PROGRAM There is no comparable program offered anywhere else in the nation—a unique educational opportunity and a highly focused credential. "Many of our nation’s theatre departments have very euro-centric programs, which makes this a unique opportunity to gain knowledge on this focus. Students will develop the skills to focus on creating new theatre works, delving into Black diaspora theatre traditions, and employment opportunities." Sidney Edwards, MFA Actress, Singer, Dancer & Improv Artist African American Theatre Program Director Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August September 1 Fall II October December 1 Spring January February 1 Spring II March May 1 Summer May/June Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete graduate application Submit $40 non-refundable application fee Submit official college transcripts from all previous institutions Submit 2 letters of recommendation Provide personal statement, 500 words Note: Electronic transcripts are only accepted directly from the institution(s). Please have electronic transcripts sent to adetran@louisville.edu. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree or equivalent in any field from an accredited institution Visiting Students All visiting students must submit a Visiting Student Letter. The letter should verify that the student is in good standing in a graduate program, indicate the specific term for which the student has permission to enroll, list the approved courses to be taken, and be signed by the registrar or dean of the student's home school. It must be sent via regular mail; faxed or emailed copies will not be accepted. Other than the application and the application fee, the Visiting Student letter is the only credential required of visiting students. International Students If you live outside of the United States and intend to complete an online academic program from your home country, be sure to view special requirements for international students. UofL’s online Graduate Certificate in African American Theatre is a 5-course, 15-credit hour program, including an internship in your local theatre community. Course List Hours Program Requirements TA 566 Advanced History of African-American Theatre 3 TA 562 Advanced Black Dramatic Literature 3 TA 664 Approaching African-American Theatre 3 TA 650 Theatre Internship 3 One or More of the Following Electives: TA 565 Advanced Theatre of the African World 3 TA 563 Advanced African American Women in Theatre 3 TA 557 Advanced Hip-Hop Theatre 3 TA 655 Independent Study 1-3 Minimum Required Credit Hours 15 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Overview Admissions COURSES TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link