Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ Continuing Education Navigation Continuing Education Contact Course Information and Registration ULSD Faculty and Staff Course Information and Registration Log-in to your Personal Profile Directions, Parking and Accommodations Payment and Refund Policies For More Information Fran Williams Alumni Affairs & Continuing Education Coordinator 502-852-5077 fran.williams@louisville.edu Office of Continuing Education University of Louisville's response to COVID-19 Mission Statement The University of Louisville School of Dentistry's Office of Continuing Education endeavors to provide quality Programs to all Dentists, Hygienists, and Auxiliary personnel in an atmosphere of mutual trust and respect for all. Our goal is to provide life-long learning opportunities through a variety of comprehensive courses. Overview The courses offered by the University of Louisville School of Dentistry are accepted by the Kentucky Board of Dentistry and virtually all other licensure boards for credit of one point per hour to meet re-licensure requirements. All courses are approved for Fellowship and Mastership credit with the Academy of General Dentistry. Academic Freedom, Professional Differences, Use of Limited Knowledge and Co-Sponsored Courses Educational institutions have the responsibility to disseminate new knowledge. In so doing, some presentations may include controversial procedures, materials, or commercial references. Please be advised that there are potential risks of using limited knowledge when incorporating new techniques and procedures into the Practice of Dentistry without supervised clinical experience and/or competency tests in the techniques or procedures being taught. Sponsorship of a dental continuing education course does not imply endorsement of a particular philosophy, procedure, or product. These courses do not necessarily reflect the philosophies of the University of Louisville pre-doctoral or post-doctoral training programs. Co-sponsorship of a program will be identified in promotional material and seeks assurance that balance and unbiased information is presented. Professional Decorum Policy The University of Louisville Office of Continuing Education program maintains a Code of Professional Responsibility which defines certain expectations for all participants. Truthfulness Treating others with dignity and respect Placing patients' interest above self-interest Integrity Self-responsibility Promoting professional standards Acing legally Respect for others' property Failing to meet these professional expectations will result in an automatic failure and forfeiture of full tuition. Verification of Attendance/Record Keeping Each attendee is responsible for maintaining their own records and for reporting their own CDE activities to all appropriate bodies in accord with any jurisdictional and/or membership requirements. The University of Louisville School of Dentistry Office of Continuing Education will maintain information for no more than six years from date of course. Verification of Attendance as of 2012, are available in your personal profile. You can log-in to your personal profile from our website. Severe Weather Policy In the event of impending Severe Weather Conditions, the Office of Dental Continuing Education would ask that you contact (502) 852-5077 for further information. The University of Louisville School of Dentistry is an ADA CERP Recognized Provider. ADA CERP is a service of the American Dental Association to assist dental professionals in identifying quality providers of continuing dental education. ADA CERP does not approve or endorse individual courses or instructors, nor does it imply acceptance of credit hours by boards of dentistry. Concerns or complaints about a CE provider may be directed to the provider or to ADA CERP. ADA CERP requires, among other standards, continuing education providers ensure that the clinical and technical activities have a sound scientific basis, as well as a Declaration of Conflict of Interest. AGD-Accepted Program Provider: FAGD/MAGD Credit: 05/01/2021- 06/30/2025 AGD ID#21481 University of Louisville School of Dentistry is a member of the Association for Continuing Dental Education Administrative Staff Fran Williams; Coordinator, Alumni Affairs and Continuing Education For More Information Fran Williams Alumni Affairs & Continuing Education Coordinator 502-852-5077 fran.williams@louisville.edu School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville