Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Graduate School Navigation Home Future Students Apply for Admission Find Your Degree Program Application Directions International Applicants Funding Opportunities Recruitment Living in Louisville Orientation Future StudentsFuture Students Dropdown Toggle Apply for Admission Find Your Degree Program Application Directions International Applicants Funding Opportunities Recruitment Living in Louisville Orientation Current Students Graduate School Student Emergency Grant Fund Commencement Electronic Thesis/Dissertation Signature Pages Policies, Procedures and Forms Thesis/Dissertation Information Funding Opportunities Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTA) PLAN Professional Development Graduate Student Council Graduate Student Recognition Dissertation Completion Award Nomination Form MentorCenter Current StudentsCurrent Students Dropdown Toggle Graduate School Student Emergency Grant Fund Commencement Electronic Thesis/Dissertation Signature Pages Policies, Procedures and Forms Thesis/Dissertation Information Funding Opportunities Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTA) PLAN Professional Development Graduate Student Council Graduate Student Recognition Dissertation Completion Award Nomination Form MentorCenter Faculty & Staff Calendar for Awards Deadlines Directors of Graduate Studies Graduate Advising Funding Opportunities for Graduate Students Policies, Procedures and Forms PLAN Professional Development Faculty Awards Faculty & StaffFaculty & Staff Dropdown Toggle Calendar for Awards Deadlines Directors of Graduate Studies Graduate Advising Funding Opportunities for Graduate Students Policies, Procedures and Forms PLAN Professional Development Faculty Awards Diversity Graduate Diversity Scholars Diversity Programming MAGS The Advocate Newsletter Emergency Grant Fund for Graduate Students Graduate Dean's Diversity Supplement Form Faculty Women of Color in the Academy Conference DiversityDiversity Dropdown Toggle Graduate Diversity Scholars Diversity Programming MAGS The Advocate Newsletter Emergency Grant Fund for Graduate Students Graduate Dean's Diversity Supplement Form Faculty Women of Color in the Academy Conference Contact Us Home / Faculty & Staff / Faculty Awards Faculty Mentor Award Winners Provost’s Award for an Exemplary Director of Graduate Studies (DGS) May 2022 Sarah Emery, Ph.D. Department of Biology Dr. Sarah Emery is this year’s recipient of the Provost’s Award for an Exemplary Director of Graduate Studies. This award honors those who have graduate or professional student advising and/or administrative duties for their graduate program and who excel at the work of advising graduate students in areas such as program requirements, career prospects and funding possibilities. Sarah Emery is a full professor in the Biology Department at UofL. She earned her B.S. in Biology and Studio Art from Denison University in Ohio and her Ph.D. in Plant Biology from Michigan State University. She completed a post-doctoral fellowship at Rice University in Texas before joining the faculty at UofL in 2007. As an ecologist, Dr. Emery focuses her research on understanding how plants respond to different aspects of global change, and she has over 50 publications in peer-reviewed journals. Dr. Emery has been a strong proponent of graduate education throughout her career and has taught a variety of graduate and undergraduate courses in Biology, including an introductory seminar for new PhD students that covers topics related to professional development, mental health, and tools for success in graduate school. Dr. Emery has served as Director of Graduate Studies in Biology since 2017. In this role, she initiated a peer-mentoring program for new PhD students in Biology in 2020, to help counter isolation caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. She also has supervised dissertations and theses for 13 Ph.D. students and 6 M.S. students and participated on advisory committees for another 28 graduate students during her time at UofL. Graduate students in her lab are encouraged to pursue their own research interests under the broad umbrella of plant community ecology, and she is proud to help students graduate from UofL as productive and independent scientists. In her personal time, Dr. Emery enjoys hiking, crochet, occasionally defeating her husband in pickleball, and being a mom to two great kids. A student of Dr. Emery states, “She has gone above and beyond to organize a student support program which helps new graduate students make strong acquaintances despite the challenges imposed from covid-19.” Her nomination letter emphasizes her qualities as a DGS. “She works tirelessly and selflessly to help the graduate students in the Biology Department, and not unrelatedly, to help the Graduate Program flourish as well.” Previous Winners Outstanding Faculty Mentor of Doctoral Students May 2022 Craig Grapperhaus, Ph.D. Department of Chemistry Dr. Craig Grapperhaus is this year’s recipient of the Outstanding Mentor of a Doctoral Student award. This award honors one-on-one mentoring of a doctoral student through direction of a dissertation, supervision of a student’s laboratory research, or oversight of a student’s internship or final professional paper. Professor Grapperhaus joined the University of Louisville as an Assistant Professor in the Department of Chemistry in 2000, was tenured and promoted to Associate Professor in 2005, and promoted to Full Professor in 2011. Dr. Grapperhaus served as the Department of Chemistry Director of Graduate Studies from 2005 to 2010, the Vice Chair from 2009 to 2012 and 2015 to 2017, and the Chair from 2017 to 2020. Since Fall 2021, he has been serving as the Director of Undergraduate Studies for the Department of Chemistry. He was recognized as Research Exemplar by the Professional & Integrity in Research Program at Washington University for his high quality, high-impact research and exemplary professionalism and integrity in research in 2017. Prof. Grapperhaus’ research focuses on the synthesis, characterization, and reactivity of metal complexes for applications in catalysis, renewable energy, and metal-containing therapeutics. He has mentored 15 Ph.D. graduates and currently mentors/co-mentors 10 graduate students. Prof. Grapperhaus is a member of the Conn Center for Renewable Energy Research and he collaborates with colleagues from the College of Arts & Sciences, Speed School, and School of Medicine. Prior to the University of Louisville, Prof. Grapperhaus was awarded an Alexander von Humboldt Fellowship for post-doctoral studies at the Max-Planck-Institut für Strahlenchemie in Mülheim, Germany from 1998 – 2000. He received his Ph.D. in Chemistry from Texas A&M University in 1998. A student of Dr. Grapperhaus states, “his dedication in training, mentoring and motivating students to perform to the best of their abilities cannot be matched.” He inspires students to grow in their field, and prompts their personal growth. The Chair of the Chemistry department explains that Dr. Grapperhaus successfully recruits students because of his strong reputation among the Chemistry department. Dr. Grapperhaus’ goal as a mentor is to instill the drive in his students to be their own sternest critic and greatest promoter. He strives to teach students how to design control experiments, question their results, and carefully analyze of their own data trying to prove themselves wrong so they can proudly and confidently disseminate their accomplishments to the broader community and advance on their career path. Prof. Grapperhaus enjoys teaching general chemistry at the freshman level and specialized courses in inorganic chemistry and catalysis at the graduate level. He is inspired by the knowledge, eagerness to learn, and social awareness of the students he meets in the classroom and laboratory. He is confident in their ability to go forward and work collaboratively on interdisciplinary teams to solve global problems. Outstanding Faculty Mentor of Doctoral Students Lynne Hall, DrPH, RN School of Nursing Dr. Lynne Hall, professor and Associate Dean of Research in the School of Nursing, is this year’s recipient of the Outstanding Mentor of a Doctoral Student award. This award honors one-on-one mentoring of a doctoral student through direction of a dissertation, supervision of a student’s laboratory research, or oversight of a student’s internship or final professional paper. Dr. Hall joined the University of Louisville faculty in 2011 after 26 years of service at the University of Kentucky where she directed the PhD Program and served as the Associate Dean for Research and Scholarship. She is responsible for facilitation of research in the School of Nursing and has administration of the PhD Program in her portfolio of responsibilities. Dr. Hall teaches and advises in the PhD Program and advises students in the Doctor of Nursing Practice Program. She supervises tenured and tenure track faculty and administers the Office of Nursing Research. Dr. Hall is a two-time graduate of Clemson University, receiving both her BSN and MSN degrees there. She received her doctoral degree in Maternal and Child Health with a minor in Epidemiology in the School of Public Health from the University of North Carolina where she also did a two-year postdoctoral fellowship. Dr. Hall has taught and advised PhD students since 1987. Dr. Hall has mentored 59 PhD graduates and six Doctor of Nursing Practice graduates to completion. Since joining the University of Louisville faculty, she has served on committees for a total of 15 doctoral graduates--nine PhD graduates and six DNP graduates. Dr. Hall’s mentees followed in her footsteps and have garnered federal funding for their programs of research and published extensively in peer-reviewed journals. They have attained leadership positions such as deanships and also received many honors and awards. Dr. Hall’s nomination letter highlights her pivotal role in contributing to the success of her students. One student states, “Her success as an advisor and a mentor has positioned her as one of the most sought-after dissertation chairs within the School of Nursing.” The student also describes Dr. Hall as the most supportive academic advisor they have ever met. Dr. Hall believes that the best measure of a mentor’s success is the success of their mentees. She said, “I subscribe to servant leadership whereby my focus is not on being served but is on serving others to help them achieve success. This is the philosophy I bring to mentoring others whether they are students, faculty, or staff. I believe it is critical for both the mentor and mentee to work hard but to also enjoy the process of achieving milestones along the way. I truly care about those that I serve and and their success and strive to show it in mentoring others.” Previous Winners Outstanding Faculty Mentor of Masters Students May 2022 Stefanie Wooten-Burnett, Ph.D. Department of Elementary, Middle & Secondary Teacher Education Dr. Stefanie Wooten-Burnett is this year’s recipient of the Outstanding Mentor of a Master’s Student. This award honors a faculty member who mentors students to the completion of a Master’s degree through direction of their thesis, supervision of research, oversight of a student’s publications, awards or an internship or professional paper. Dr. Stefanie Wooten-Burnett is a clinical assistant professor and the Director of Multiple Pathways for Teacher Certification in the College of Education and Human Development. She first came to the university in 2005 as a term instructor for the Physical Education and School Health programs. Since then, Dr. Wooten-Burnett has served the college as a program director and assistant professor, returning to the university in 2019 as the Director of Alternative Certification and becoming the Director of Multiple Pathways in 2020. Dr. Wooten-Burnett is widely recognized at the university and throughout the greater Louisville community as a driving force behind the success of the Louisville Teacher Residency program and the residency model for teacher training. She spends much of her time mentoring students in and outside the classroom who are pursuing degrees in teacher preparation. Drawing on her background as a K-12 physical education teacher, her passion for students and early career teachers has led to local and national recognition. She holds her bachelors, masters, and doctoral degrees from the University of Louisville and an education specialist degree in school administration from Indiana State University. A student of Dr. Wooten-Burnett described her as being, “a wealth of knowledge, guidance, and advocacy” for all students. “Dr. Wooten-Burnett has perfectly modeled the role of educators in students’ lives throughout the last two years.” She is an inspiration for many students within her program through her leadership and confidence. Previous Winners The University of Louisville is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACSCOC). For more information – www.louisville.edu/accreditation University of Louisville GRADUate SCHOOL 2211 S Brook St, Houchens Bldg, Rm 105 Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Office Hours M-F 9:00 am to 5:00 pm No holiday hours Phone Main (502)852-6495 Fax (502)852-3111 Email gradadm@louisville.edu Social Media Facebook Instagram YouTube Twitter © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville