Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ News/ Dr. Suzanne Barnes joins UofL oral and maxillofacial surgery department Dr. Suzanne Barnes joins UofL oral and maxillofacial surgery department Childhood experiences led her to dentistry and to an empathic approach to patient care – especially for children with cleft lip and palate. Dr. Suzanne Barnes, Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeon As the old saying goes, kids can say the darndest things. As numerous social media videos can attest, that’s especially true when they wake up from anesthesia after surgery. Dr. Suzanne Barnes was no exception. After she had her wisdom teeth removed as a teen, she decided it was the perfect time to share her hopes and dreams with anyone who would listen. “I woke up from the anesthesia and I was going on and on about how I was going to go to dental school one day,” she says. “I just talked about my dreams with this man I didn't even know.” That man didn’t laugh at Barnes’ aspirations. Instead, he offered her a summer job working in his oral surgery practice – and a pathway into her future career. “I remember telling my parents at the end of that summer I would be an oral surgeon one day.” From that moment, Barnes set a course to make it happen. She received her bachelor’s degree from the University of Florida and then received her DMD from Nova Southeastern University, which are both in her home state of Florida. She then moved to Nashville, Tennessee to complete her oral and maxillofacial surgery residency at Vanderbilt University Medical Center. While at Vanderbilt, Barnes discovered a passion for one type of surgery in particular: cleft lip and palate. “We did a lot of the alveolar cleft repairs at Vanderbilt and I really loved it,” she says. That prompted her to spend another year in training in Charleston, West Virginia, where she completed a cleft and craniofacial fellowship in 2021. "Children who require cleft lip or cleft palate surgery are some of the most resilient, strong and fun children I've ever met. They're such a blessing.” From that point on, Barnes says, she was drawn to cleft palate and cleft lip repair for several reasons. “I love the creativity of the surgery. I also love working with the patients, from the time they are born until they are adults. Children who require cleft lip or cleft palate surgery are some of the most resilient, strong and fun children I've ever met. They're such a blessing.” Barnes says her own experiences as a child prepared her to work well with children who have cleft palate, as well as their families. “I had seizures as a child, which I am grateful I outgrew by the age of 12. However, I spent numerous appointments in a pediatric neurologist’s office for about two years. I gained an awareness of what it looks like to meet the child where they are – as well as to meet the parents where they are. I remember vividly my parents being really scared and nervous, and yet trying to be brave for me. There were a lot of unknowns.” She says her pediatric neurologist had one characteristic in particular that made the process easier. “He was incredibly patient. His philosophy was he was going to sit there and talk to you as long as it took. I have implemented the same principle when I'm seeing my patients, whether they are adults or children. But especially with kids, you can never underestimate the value of time spent listening and building good rapport. My desire is for each patient to leave with an understanding of their diagnosis, their questions answered, and reassurance they will be cared for as if they were family.” As for her own family, which includes a husband and a daughter born in 2021, Barnes says they are excited to call Louisville home. “I feel like my whole life has been moving – for undergrad, dental school, and then residency, and then it was a year for fellowship. I am grateful to set roots down and to dream about when my daughter starts running around in our backyard and playing with our dog. And I think I'm just enjoying the simpler things of life right now, which is just really good for my heart.” Make an appointment with Dr. Barnes April 8, 2022 School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville