No images? Click here September 1, 2021 Welcome to the new UofL Online Learning Student Newsletter This new monthly newsletter is designed to provide resources for online students—like you! You will find helpful tips, updates, and resources. If you have a request for information you would like to see in this newsletter, please let us know by emailing Student News at stunews@louisville.edu. Resources for online students While you may not be attending classes on campus, you’re still a UofL Cardinal with resources available to help you be a successful student. The Virtual Writing Center, REACH tutoring, events, tech support, and library services can all be accessed online. New to Blackboard? Blackboard is UofL's platform for online classes. Whether you are a new or experienced user, here are beneficial tips for how to prepare for your course, optimize using the system’s tools and features, and get the most out of this learning system. You may be eligible for free tutoring Your online course(s) could be eligible for free online tutoring by the REACH Center. Check out the REACH site and “Hackademics” workshops for helpful strategies and guides on online learning, productivity, time management, test taking, and more! Tips for success from online UofL students We talked to online UofL students to find out some of their favorite tips for creating space in their lives for education. From silencing your phone to allowing ample time for reading, hear more about how others are successful in their online coursework. Do you have Questions? Concerns? If you don’t know where to go with your question or concern, check the Dean of Students Office website or email us. The ConcernCenter directory is also a great online resource. We’re here for you! EVENTS Antiracism Workshops for all students For white and BIPOC students. Learn powerful/ practical tools to respond to interpersonal and systemic racism. Virtual Workshops on Wednesdays, Sept 15, 22, & 29 from 9-10:30. Register here. More information: louisville.edu/cfcwb/training-and-professional-development Win prizes in the Cards Commuter Challenge Driving sucks! Save money, burn calories, stop pollution & win cash…all by simply getting to campus in a new way! Bus, bike, walk, or carpool and log your trips at directions.louisville.edu 8/30-9/30 to win one of the $50 weekly prizes or the $250 Grand Prize! http://louisville.edu/sustainability/events/cards-commuter-challenge-2021 Parent of the Year Award If your parent has made an impact on your life while taking classes at UofL, you can nominate them to be Parent of the Year! The nomination period for the 2021–2022 Parent of the Year is now open. Online nomination form. WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS Fitness and Sports Intramural Sports provides a number of virtual programs for online and distance learning students. There are many fitness workouts available through our Youtube channel, Louisville Intramurals. We will also be conducting online bracketology contests during March Madness for the women’s and men’s brackets. All programs are available through our website: louisville.edu/intramurals. Did you know? There is a Student Handbook full of resources including Academic Grievance Procedure, Academic Advising, Counseling Center, International Student and Scholar Services, REACH (Resources for Academic Achievement), Student Financial Aid, Testing Services, and so much more. Go to: louisville.edu/dos/students/studentpoliciesandprocedures/student-handbook Online Student Resources Subscribe University of Louisville 2100 S. Floyd St. Student Activities Center, W301 Louisville, KY 40208 You are receiving this email because you are a University of Louisville online student. If you choose to unsubscribe, you agree to no longer receive important UofL news and updates. Unsubscribe