Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Card Safety Home Home Cardsafe Welcome to the University of Louisville, a thriving university home to more than 22,000 students, 6,500 faculty and staff and tens of thousands of visitors each year. We’re really a small city, offering spaces for our community to live, learn, work and play. And we are constantly working to make your campus home even more secure. That’s where CardSafe comes in. CardSafe is a program to help protect all members of our campus community. We encourage you to read this website and take advantage of all the safety measures and programs listed. Of course, no one can absolutely guarantee your safety. But by utilizing these programs and using some common sense, you can greatly reduce your odds of becoming a victim on or near any of our three campuses. Check this site often to find the latest programs and information on campus safety. L Trail This well-lit, patrolled route promotes safe travels from the middle of Belknap Campus to the Swain Student Activities Center, the Ville Grill, and to some of the affiliated residence halls. When you’re out walking, follow the white signs with the large red “L.” See the map for the L Trail route. View the map [PDF] View the map [PDF] Rave Guardian With this phone app, you can instantly dial 911 or UofL Police, send a tip if you see a crime happening, or set a timer to alert your friends and police if you are late in arriving to a pre-determined destination. Learn more about the Rave Guardian App by reviewing the Frequently Asked Questions (DOCX). Download iOS Download Android Download iOS Download Android UofL Alerts All UofL students, faculty and staff should sign up for UofL Alerts, which will send you a text message in case of an emergency on campus. It’s also the fastest way to hear about snow days and other weather cancellations. (All members of the UofL family receive UofL Alerts emails, but you must sign up for the text service.) You can add a second phone number or family members’ phones to the system or update your information at: getrave.com/login/louisville. More info Log in More info Log in Campus Escort When walking on campus during the evening hours, you should walk with another person and use well-lit, well-traveled routes like the L Trail. But that's not always possible. If you get stuck out late at night studying or working on campus and don't want to walk alone, request an escort. This service is provided for any member of the university community from dusk to dawn any day of the year. Escort Service boundaries on Belknap extend within the campus, to University Park Apartments and up to four blocks off campus. At the Health Sciences Center, escorts also are available to the parking lots or nearby vehicles. Call 852-6111 Call 852-6111 Cardinal Safety App This phone app offers tips on how to respond to emergencies ranging from an active shooter to an earthquake. It also offers tips on how to avoid becoming a victim and preventing thefts, as well as what steps to take if a crime occurs. This app also includes Belknap, HSC and Shelbyhurst campus maps and an auto-dialer to 911, the University Police and the campus escort service. Download for iOS Download for iOS Green Dot Sponsored by our PEACC Center, the Green Dot Bystander Campaign is our community response to violence. A Green Dot highlights a behavior, choice, or statement that makes it less likely that someone will experience sexual assault, partner violence, and stalking. No one has to do everything, but we can all do something! Find out about trainings and programs for Green Dot at louisville.edu/peacc More info More info Campus Shuttle Need to get from one side of campus to the other? UofL’s campus shuttles are a great resource. The university operates a shuttle Monday-Friday from Papa John’s Cardinal Stadium to sites around Belknap Campus. The West Campus Shuttle connects the residence halls to the main campus Monday-Friday evenings. And the Health Sciences Campus shuttle circulates to many of the key buildings on and around HSC. View map More info View map More info If You See Something, Say Something Students, faculty and staff play a role in keeping our campus safe. UofL is part of the If You See Something, Say Something national campaign that encourages citizens to report suspicious objects or behaviors. If you see something suspicious, call UofL Police at 852-6111. More info If you see something, say something University of Louisville Police The University of Louisville Police Department is a fully accredited force that serves UofL’s three campuses 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The department consists of about 45 sworn officers, 30 security guards, and a K-9 unit. (Look for Sampson, a black Labrador, training around campus.) ULPD patrols all UofL campuses. You’ll see officers on foot, bicycles and ATVs, and you’ll notice their patrol vehicles. The university fire marshal also is part of ULPD. Find out more about ULPD, including updates on new initiatives as well as the latest crime reports at louisville.edu/police. More info More info Active Shooter Training Reports of active shooter incidents, violent attacks on the public, and workplace violence have become more prominent in the news and in the minds of minds of most people throughout the world. The chances of any of these incidents occurring at the University of Louisville are remote, but remain a possibility. We strive to lessen the possibility of the occurrence of any incidents through the efforts of the ULPD and other members of the UofL Community. Critical incident and active shooter training is available through the ULPD for any group upon request. In addition to the live training/presentation, the University of Louisville has produced a video that will provide our Community with the necessary information and tools to ensure survival if an incident were to occur. Active Shooter Video Active Shooter Training Active Shooter Video Active Shooter Training © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville