Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Calendars Home Academic Calendars University Holidays Work-Restricted Religious Holy Days HSC Event Calendar Classroom & Event Scheduling Alumni Events UofL Event Calendar UofL Event Calendar FAQ Home / UofL Event Calendar / UofL Event Calendar FAQ UofL Event Calendar FAQ UofL's event calendar is a marketing tool for promotion your events and for faculty, staff, students and general public to discover what is happening at the university. What is the UofL Events Calendar? Events.louisville.edu is a comprehensive, university-wide event marketing calendar. Powered by Localist, the new calendar offers a look at all of the arts, activities, sports and more offered at UofL. Why do we need a new event calendar? UofL previously used open source software to display events. We launched it in 2002, and well, never changed it. Back then, there was no Facebook or Twitter. No smartphones or tablets. Now is the time time for a big change, one that allows us to integrate new technology and give our community the best calendar possible. (see our list of features) Is this just another thing I have to add to my to do list? Our goal is to streamline the calendar process. Right now there are dozens of calendars across campus and none of them play well together. In the past, if you hosted an event, you had to post your event on multiple calendars to get the message. With the new calendar, you can add your events once and the information automatically filters out to other webpages. We'll cover widgets later. How do I sign up? Good news! If you're a university employee or student, you already have an account. Just sign in with your university ID and password. Once logged in, you can build your own profile, link to your Facebook profile and add events to the calendar. Why do I need an account? You can view events on the calendar without signing in. But once signed in, the calendar offers an array of features to help you stay involved with campus and keeps you in the know about all of the best events. For instance: Keep tabs on all of the events you want to attend by clicking "Watch this" or "I'm going." Get email reminders about events you're going to so you don't forget about them. Tell your friends about upcoming events by sharing them on your Facebook wall. Share feedback and photos about events you've attended. I don't want people to see the events I'm going to. Can I stop that? Sure. Check your privacy settings and select the level you're most comfortable with. How do I post an event to the calendar? Log in to the homepage. Once there, click "Submit an event." Fill out the submission form completely. Here are a few tips: Events need descriptions so that people know what it's all about. Include a sentence telling people about what's happening at your events. Submissions that don't have a complete description will not be accepted. UofL Event Calendar uses a lot of filters so people can sort through all of UofL's events and pick the activities they're interested in. Make sure to select all of the filters that apply to your event. Don't forget to mark the department or group that sponsors your event. What happens after I submit an event? UofL's Office of Communications and Marketing will edit and approve your event. This will typically happen within a few days of your event being submitted (except weekends and holidays). Right now, we do not allow events to skip the pending queue. We recommend submitting your events two weeks prior to the event date. If you need events (or cancellations) to show up faster, contact us and we will try to accommodate. My student group or department already posts our events in Engage. Do I really need to add it to another calendar? No. We aim to make this efficient, so we've set up a feed from Engage to automatically import events from their event calendar. If your event name, date or times change, or you cancel an event, be sure to alert us so we can update the UofL Event Calendar calendar. My event requires ticket sales. How do you collect payments? The UofL Event Calendar isn't an event registration site. UofL Information Technology offers an approved event registration system. Learn more by calling Sherry Roark at 852-0947. You can link to your ticket sales directly on the ticket form. For more information about setting up paid tickets to your event, contact Jill Riede at 502-852-0892 or jillian.riede@louisville.edu. Can I use EventBrite for free events? Yes. EventBrite allows your users to register and issue free tickets. Simply create an event in Eventbrite, and include your link in the UofL Event Calendar submission form. I want to put my department's calendar items on our page. Can I do that through events.louisville.edu? Sure, go to events.louisville.edu and build a custom widget. You'll receive an snippet of code that can be integrated into your websites. Full documentation is available here. I'm hosting an event, but the campus building where it's being held isn't included on the calendar. How do I fix that? Fill out our contact form and we'll get the building added as soon as possible. My group/department hosts a lot of events. Is there any way to add them all at the same time? We do offer bulk uploading. Users can request a spreadsheet to complete. Once finished, email it to caitlin.brooks@louisville.edu. OCM will edit the spreadsheet and post. If you fill out a spreadsheet, you'll need to contact us directly to let us know if any individual event details change.. I have a great event coming up. How do I get included it as a featured event? We typically have five events listed under featured events. Spots are designated for the following types of events - academic, arts & culture, athletics, students and university priority. Events will be selected based on the quality of the submission, including a full description and photo.. I'm still lost on this entire thing. Can you help? Of course. Go to our contact form and request an individual or small-group tutorial.. University of Louisville 2301 S. 3rd St. University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Contact tel (800) 334-UofL (8635) tel (502) 852-5555 Social Media Twitter Flickr Facebook Pinterest LinkedIn YouTube Quick Links About UofL Trustees UofL Foundation UofL Mission Org. Chart Accreditations © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville