Request Information Request Info /-/images/pages/faa-header.jpg 8ed11cd5-7635-463f-a9c3-180c8b0855e4 ool-genonline University of Louisville Online Programs Online programs at the University of Louisville allow you to continue your education and empower you to advance your career, with the flexibility and convenience to accomplish your goals on your schedule. UofL is a proud member of the U.S. Federal Government's, Federal Academic Alliance (FM) and provides a tuition scholarship for all eligible federal employees* nationwide. Our online degrees and certificate programs focus on non-traditional, professional development and provide industry-driven knowledge readily applicable from the classroom to the workplace. Stan or finish your bachelor's, master's or certificate fully online at the University of Louisville, a nationally recognized R1 research university. Federal Academic Alliance Scholarship The University of Louisville offers all U.S. Federal Government employees a 10% tuition scholarship applied to the current tuition rate for online programs, each academic semester**. The Federal Academic Alliance tuition scholarship can be applied to all of UofL’s online programs***. There are currently over 50 online undergraduate, graduate and certificate programs offered. For a list of qualifying Federal Agencies, visit Federal Register - Agencies. UofL's Online Programs Benefits 10% scholarship applied to standard tuition rates, for U.S. Federal Government employees, for all UofL online programs Flexible coursework, completed fully online, on your time Curriculum that reflects the university’s strong commitment to applied research Quality education delivered right to your preferred internet-connected device Faculty with distinguished academic credentials and industry experience Competitive tuition, financial aid and tuition assistance available for qualified applicants Get started today! Our online enrollment counselors are ready and available to connect you with the answers and resources you need to be successful as an online student at UofL. For details regarding the federal employee tuition scholarship and questions on program availability, start dates, application requirements and deadlines, complete the form and your designated enrollment counselor will be in touch to help you get started in taking the next step in your education. *Excludes uniform members of the Department of Defense. Government Contractors are not eligible. **Federal employees remain eligible for the duration of their academic program as long as they remain employed by the federal government. ***Discount applies to UofL's online bachelor's, graduate and certificate programs and does not apply to traditional UofL on-site programs. Online Programs Online Bachelor's Degrees Business Administration (BBA) Business Administration in Accountancy (BS) Communication (BA) Communication (BS) Criminal Justice (BS) General Studies Nursing (RN-BSN) Organizational Leadership and Learning (BS) Leadership, Training, and Organizational Development track Healthcare Leadership track - Competency-Based Education (CBE); Flex Option/Term Option Project Management for the Modern Workforce track Digital Leadership/IT track Diversity, Inclusion, Community Engagement, Equity Human Resource Development track Counseling and Human Relations track Early Childhood Education track Career and Technical Education track Political Science Psychology (BS) Social Work (BSW) Sociology (BA) Sport Administration (BS) Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies (BA) Online Master's Degrees Biostatistics (MS)* Business Administration (MBA)* Civil Engineering (MS)* Computer Science (MS)* Criminal Justice (MS)* Engineering Management (MEng.)* Health Administration (MS)* Health Data Analytics (MS) Health Professions Education* Higher Education Administration (MA) - with concentrations* Human Resources and Organization Development (MS) - with concentrations* Industrial Engineering* Materials and Energy Science & Engineering (MS)* Social Work (MS) - with specializations* Special Education (MEd.) - with concentrations* Sport Administration (MS) Teacher Leadership (MEd.) - with endorsements and concentrations* Teaching (MA) - Interdisciplinary Early Childhood Education (Alternate Certification) Teaching (MA) - Special Education (Alternate Certification) Moderate to Severe Disabilities Learning and Behavior Disorders *No GRE/GMAT required Online Doctoral Degrees Social Work (DSW) Online Certificates Undergraduate Certificates Accounting Applied Geospatial Technologies Healthcare Leadership Human Resource Leadership Graduate Certificates✝ Artificial Intelligence in Medicine Biostatistics Cybersecurity Data Science Distilled Spirits Business Family Business Management & Advising Franchise Management Health Professions Education Horse Racing Industry Business Managerial Analytics Organizational Change in Higher Education Structural Engineering Teaching English as an International Language Transportation Engineering ✝ Bachelor’s degree required for admission Frequently Asked Questions How much is tuition for an online course? For the current academic year, the tuition rates for undergraduate and graduate online courses can be found here. What UofL Online programs qualify for the Federal Academic Alliance 10% scholarship? All of UofL’s Online programs (Undergraduate, Graduate, and Certificate) qualify for the Federal Academic Alliance 10% scholarship. What documentation do I provide to validate that I am a Federal employee? Applicants for an FAA scholarship must submit a valid Leave and Earning Statement (LES) from their Federal employer for each term of enrollment, as proof of their eligibility to receive the 10% tuition scholarship. Please redact (black out) all sections of the LES except: name, pay date and name of employer. Please send LES to UofL’s Financial Aid’s office service account finaid@louisville.edu. When sending LES please indicate the term you are enrolling for (Fall, Spring or Summer). Are my dependents eligible for the 10% tuition scholarship? At this time the scholarship is only available to Federal employees. How much are the application fees? UofL’s Undergraduate application fee is $25 and Graduate application fee is $65. What is financial aid and where can I go to learn about it? The Federal government and Department of Education maintain a comprehensive financial aid website. We encourage you to visit this site to learn more about financing your online program. How do I apply for financial aid? To apply for most financial aid programs you need to complete the FAFSA. You can complete the FAFSA online at: www.fafsa.ed.gov. The school code for the University of Louisville is: 001999. I am a contractor for the Federal government, do I qualify for the tuition scholarship? No, only employees of the Federal government qualify for the tuition scholarship. Do I still qualify for the tuition scholarship if I am no longer a Federal employee? No, only current employees of the Federal government qualify for the scholarship. Can I receive credit for courses completed at another institution? Undergraduate: Students may transfer up to 60 hours from a community college and up to 90 hours from an accredited 4-year college. Graduate: Earned graduate credit may be transferred from accredited institutions that offer advanced degrees. Generally, the maximum number of semester hours transferable, upon request, is six. How does the transfer process work? You may transfer credit to UofL from any accredited institution. You will submit transcripts from all institutions you attended as part of the admissions process. Upon review, some or all credit may be applied to your degree program. To get an idea of how many Undergraduate credits you'll be able to transfer toward your UofL bachelor's degree, complete the credit transfer pre-evaluation. For additional information about transferring Undergraduate credit see UofL’s Transfer Credit Policy. What are the benefits of UofL Online Learning? UofL’s online learning is a convenient and flexible way to gain a top-quality college education as a current or future professional, working parent or someone with multiple priorities. Rather than gathering into a classroom or meeting at a set time, you are able to fit education into your busy schedule and complete coursework at the time that’s right for you, from anywhere in the world. At UofL, we pride ourselves on delivering the same quality and excellence in education online as we do through on-campus programs. Also, if you choose to earn a degree at the University of Louisville, your diploma and transcripts will read the same as if you completed the program on-campus. 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link The University of Louisville is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACSOC). For more information visit www.louisville.edu/accreditation. For program availability in your state visit uofl.me/sarstates Active-duty is defined as "on orders" for 180 days or more Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy