No images? Click here February 7, 2022 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Chinese New Year Festival Join Chinese Scholars Union in collaboration with APSU and the Chinese Club in welcoming the New Year. Chinese New Year is typically celebrated to usher out the old year and bring luck and prosperity of the new one. Join us in performances, food, art, raffles, & prizes. Feb. 9, 6pm, Red Barn louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7739196 Family Friendly Event IMPORTANT INFORMATION Drug Free Schools and Communities Amendment Act of 1989 As a requirement of the Federal Drug Free Schools and Communities Amendment Act, the University of Louisville is responsible for compiling and ensuring the distribution and receipt of the university’s policies, sanctions, and resources regarding alcohol and other drug (AOD) use to all students on a yearly basis. Questions about this policy and/or alcohol and other drug use, programs, or interventions should be directed to the Dean of Students Office at dos@louisville.edu or (502) 852-5787. louisville.edu/dos/students/drug-free-schools-and-communities-act ACADEMICS Louisville Teacher Residency info session Join us online Monday, 2/7, at 4 PM to learn about the Louisville Teacher Residency, a 1-year urban teacher preparation program. LTR offers the opportunity to become a certified teacher in just 1 year! Register at forms.gle/f3sotJ7HeHhHT5Wi9. Information session Master of Public Health Join Dr. Brian Guinn and Bryan Mathis from the School of Public Health & Information Sciences as they share more information about the Master of Public Health program at UofL. Location: School of Public Health and Information Sciences Room 103 at 485 E. Gray St. Feb 8, at noon. louisville.edu/sphis/academics/mph-program Public Health Minor Do you want to learn more about public health to compliment your current major? If so, consider a public health minor. catalog.louisville.edu/undergraduate/minors/public_health-minor WHAT'S HAPPENING raiseRED's Cutest Pet Contest Do you have the cutest pet around? Well, let the people be the judge of that by submitting them into the 2022 raiseRED Cutest Pet Contest starting 2/1. Voting begins Feb 14–15. Winner will get a $30 gift card to Sandy’s Pet Shop and a certificate that gives you automatic bragging rights. Details are on this form. raiseRED Cardinal Cupboard Food Drive raiseRED is partnering with the Cardinal Cupboard on a food drive to serve our UofL community in need. Collect and drop off all goods outside the Cardinal Cupboard in the SAC from February 7-11 any time before 6pm. Thank you for helping serve our community! www.instagram.com/p/CZcCtxquyRN Libraries host Entrepreneurship Symposium Entrepreneurship & Innovation Symposium will energize + empower next-generation leaders. In Ekstrom Library February 8. Network: 4–5 pm, catering by The Black Italian. Panel discussion: 5–6:30 pm. Open to students, faculty, staff, public. Register: library.louisville.edu/innovationsymposium Family Friendly Event Taste of Technology The Digital Transformation Center invites you to a hybrid event to connect and engage with UofL's technology partners (Google, Linkedin Learning, Adobe, Microsoft, IBM). The event starts on February 8, 11am, SAC W201 Multipurpose Room. For more information, please visit: express.adobe.com/page/xs79SaYB5FFrA Family Friendly Event Spring Housing Fair February 9 between 10:30 am and 3 pm in the Red Barn. Come find your next Cardinal Home and Love Where you Live. Attend and you could win one of several door prizes. Free pasta station. louisville.edu/housing/affiliates BlacKkKlansman Join SAB Films for our Black Film Festival showings of the BlacKkKlansman on February 9 in the Floyd Theater at 5:00 and 7:30 pm. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7807931 Dancing with the cards Valentine's dance This is your chance to bring your sweetheart out for a fun night of dancing or just dance the night away with fellow students. No experience dancing needed. Drinks and light refreshments will be provided alongside some yummy candy. Semi-formal attire. February 11, 7–11pm, Lutz Atrium. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7768692 HSC blood drive The UofL Health Sciences Center is sponsoring a blood drive, March 4, 9 a.m.–3 p.m. in the Cardiovascular Innovation Institute conference room located at 302 E. Muhammad Ali Blvd. Every donation is critical. Please help us meet our goal of 30 units and, hopefully, more. www.redcrossblood.org/give.html/drive-results?zipSponsor=UofLhsc University Writing Center call for art The University Writing Center is putting out its annual call for artwork by UofL students to display in our space on the first floor of Ekstrom Library. The work can be in any medium and on any subject. All UofL students are welcome to submit. For more information, email writing@louisville.edu AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Study Abroad Scholarship Session Earn up to $5,000 for a study abroad program with the Gilman Scholarship. Must be a Federal Pell Grant recipient. Learn more on February 9, 12–12:30 pm in SAC W303. www.facebook.com/events/1573332583060559/ Nominate Your Advisor The Provost's Award for Exemplary Advising is for an advisor who has shown support and advocacy for their students. You are able to nominate your advisor for their service to the UofL advising community and for their dedication to you. Learn more at louisville.edu/advising/award SPORTS Group Fitness We've made some updates to our group fitness schedule at the Student Rec Center. Check it out at louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness/src-group-fitness. Get Fit, Don't Quit Would you be interested in winning an air fryer, a speaker, protein shakes, a blanket, etc.? If so, come to the Student Recreation Center (SRC) and participate in our program, GET FIT, DON'T QUIT! We have daily activities and for this week they will be Jump rope, play racquetball, 30 sec. plank, and hit football targets. louisville.edu/intramurals Swim and Dive hosts Louisville Invitational The UofL Swim and Dive team is set to host the Louisville Invitational all day on Thursday and Friday at the Ralph Wright Natatorium. Sessions will begin at 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. each day, and admission is free. gocards.com/calendar Family Friendly Event Women’s Basketball Pink Game Our Women’s Basketball team hosts two home games this week, with the first game coming against Virginia on Thursday, February 10 at 7 p.m. at the KFC Yum! Center. Celebrate the annual “Play 4 Kay” Pink Game, where the team raises awareness and honors local breast cancer survivors. . Giveaways include free rally towels. gocards.com/calendar Family Friendly Event Women’s Tennis at Bass-Rudd Tennis Center The UofL women’s tennis team hosts Saint Louis on Saturday, February 12, at 4 p.m. in the Bass-Rudd Tennis Center. Admission is free for students. gocards.com/calendar Family Friendly Event Men's Lacrosse Club hosts Indiana Saturday The Men's Lacrosse Club will host Indiana University this Saturday at Desales High School Field. First faceoff will be at 1:00pm, and admission is free with your UofL ID. Come out and support the LAX Cards as they face the Hoosiers. www.uofllacrosse.com Family Friendly Event Ice Hockey Club hosts Xavier Saturday The Ice Hockey Club will face Xavier University this Saturday evening at Iceland Arena. First puck drops at 7:00pm Saturday. Tickets are $7.00 with student ID at the door. Come early and pack the stands as the IceCards take on the Muskateers. www.cardsicehockey.com Family Friendly Event Women's Basketball hosts Notre Dame This game comes against Notre Dame on Sunday, February 13 at 2 p.m. at the KFC Yum! Center as the team observes Black History Month with a celebration of black culture. Join us as we honor ACC Unite award winner, Von Macklin. Giveaways include adidas rally towels, water bottles, and a gift card giveaway. gocards.com/calendar Family Friendly Event Sign up for Intramural Outdoor Soccer Sign up for Intramural Outdoor Soccer by Feb. 16 at 4:30 P.M. There is no cost and each team gets 4 season games followed by a tournament. Sign up on IMLeagues.com/louisville CAREER FAIRS Public Health Career and Practice Fairs Open to all students. Employers represent the healthcare and social service related sectors. In-person will be on Wednesday, February 16 from 10:00 am–2:00 pm in the SAC Ballroom. The virtual fair will be on Handshake 2:00 pm–5:00 pm. louisville.edu/career/career-fairs Upcoming Career Fairs Interested in finding your future? Come to one of the University's many career fairs to explore your opportunities that employers have for your career & internship aspirations. louisville.edu/career/career-fairs JOB OPENING Student Success Ambassador Are you looking for a part-time campus job where you can make a difference? Become a Student Success Ambassador to gain leadership experience, be a resource for other students and offer your personal UofL expertise. The deadline to apply is 2/14/2022. Visit uofl.me/become-a-mentor for more info. SUSTAINABILITY Plastic Free Action Camp, Feb. 8 – Mar. 3 UofL’s membership in the student-led Post-Landfill Action Network grants you free access to: Plastic Free Action Camp 2/8–3/3, 1-on-1 advising with PLAN staff, zero-waste manuals, trainings, certification & discounts like 40% off Klean Kanteen. Register with your @louisville.edu email at www.postlandfill.org/plastic-free-action-camp What We Mean When We Say "Divest" Join the Student Sustainability Coalition in this session to discuss about What We Mean When We Say "Divest," and answer any questions you have. February 9, 5:30 pm on Zoom. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7846410 ADDITIONAL NEWS raiseRED Merch Store The raiseRED Online Merch Store is officially opened and filled with brand new goodies! All items are for pre-sale and are being delivered in separate waves. Orders placed on or after 2/4 will be delivered in March. The store closes at the end of February. shop.go10thplanet.com/product-category/raise-red ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I am a commuter student. Is there any support or resources for students like me? A. Yes! UofL has several resources for commuter students including a commuter lounge, lockers available for rent, and donuts and coffee at the Red Barn weekly! For more information about resources, please visit louisville.edu/involvement/student-organizations/off-campus DID YOU KNOW? There are over 400 student organizations. There is something for everyone—and if you don't find what you're looking for, you can always create a new group. Get involved! Check out the possibilities: louisville.edu/involvement/student-organizations CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe