Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online New Cards Navigation Home I am a first-time freshman First-time-Freshman Checklist I am a first-time freshmanI am a first-time freshman Dropdown Toggle First-time-Freshman Checklist I am a transfer student Transfer/Adult Orientation - Spring 2022 Transfer/Adult Orientation - Summer/Fall 2022 Technology Requirements I am a transfer studentI am a transfer student Dropdown Toggle Transfer/Adult Orientation - Spring 2022 Transfer/Adult Orientation - Summer/Fall 2022 Technology Requirements I am a returning student Transfer & Adult Orientation Returning Student Guide Technology Requirements I am a returning studentI am a returning student Dropdown Toggle Transfer & Adult Orientation Returning Student Guide Technology Requirements I am a non-degree student Non-degree Student Guide Tuition costs/payment information I am a non-degree studentI am a non-degree student Dropdown Toggle Non-degree Student Guide Tuition costs/payment information Our Staff Become an SOSer Meet the 2022 SOSers Our StaffOur Staff Dropdown Toggle Become an SOSer Meet the 2022 SOSers First-time-Freshman Checklist Freshman Orientation (Summer/Fall) 2022 Freshman Orientation Dates Orientation Agenda Freshman Orientation FAQS Family Orientation Admitted Student FAQs Technology Requirements Orientation Parking and Directions Cards Camp 2022 Home / I am a first-time freshman / First-time-Freshman Checklist First-time Freshman Guide Here's a guide to help you with your next steps! Before Orientation After Orientation 1. Activate Your Student Account Activate Here If you haven't already done so, you must activate your student account before you register for New Cards Orientation. This will grant you access to ULink, Blackboard and UofL Email. Your ULink account gives you access to your grades, your financial aid package and your tuition bill. Blackboard is as web-based technology support for your classes. Your UofL Email is your only source for official email communications from UofL, including all details about your orientation session. 2. Accept Your Offer of Admission and Pay Your Freshman Enrollment Deposit Accept Your Admission and Pay Your Freshman Enrollment Deposit All first-time freshmen are encouraged to accept their offer of admission and pay a $100 enrollment deposit. This deposit is non-refundable and will be applied to your tuition. Once you pay your deposit, you'll be able to register for New Cards Orientation. You’ll accept your offer and pay your deposit via the form in your New Cards Gateway. To log in to your Gateway, you'll use the same personal email and password you used when you created your account to apply to UofL. 3. Check Your Financial Aid To-Do List Check your financial aid to-do list on ULink For important financial aid announcements and tasks, please make sure you are checking your UofL e-mail and monitoring your financial aid to-do list on ULink. Submit your FAFSA. You may use the IRS Data Retrieval Tool if you are eligible to do so. You can use UofL's Cost Calculator to receive an estimated cost of attendance. 4. Apply for Housing Apply Here All first-time, full-time students under the age of 21 are required to live on campus, unless living at home with a parent or guardian. View exemption process. The 2022-2023 housing application will open November 1, and the priority deadline is April 1, 2022. 5. Register for New Cards Orientation Summer/Fall 2022 Orientation Details Please note: Students will not be able to register for orientation until their enrollment deposit is paid. Watch your email for all of the details about New Cards Orientation for Summer 2022! Registration will open Sunday, February 20. 6. Complete Placement Exams Testing Information It's important to enroll in classes that are right for your skill level so you don't waste time or money taking classes you don't need. Placement testing (such as Math, Reading and Foreign Language) is required for some students and other testing (such as CLEP) is optional. If you are required to take Math and/or Reading placement exams (based on your academic program and your application materials) checklist items will be added to your New Cards Gateway and you will receive an email notifying you of this requirement. 7. Submit College Credit and AP/IB Scores Request Dual Credit Evaluation If you have completed any college credit work you must submit prior to orientation a transcript from the college/university where the course took place. Office of Admissions Department AO University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 Email: adetran@louisville.edu Once we have received these transcripts you will have the opportunity to request a pre-evaluation to see how your credits will transfer to the University of Louisville. Order AP/IB Test Scores In order to receive course credit for any AP or IB test results, you must have your scores sent to the University of Louisville. If you do not have results or transcripts submitted by the date of your academic advising appointment, you will be advised accordingly and provided options once we have the official results/transcripts. 8. Submit Student ID Photo Submit Here Your Student ID is also known as your Cardinal Card and every student is required to have one. This card confirms that you are a University of Louisville student and indicates you are entitled to the rights, privileges and responsibilities of a student. The Cardinal Card functions as your ID card, meal card, and library card, among many other uses. 9. Review Health Requirements Immunization Submission Healthcare Readiness Checklist Review the Healthcare Readiness Checklist and contact Campus Health with any questions. Immunization records are required by UofL for all incoming freshman students. At this time, the COVID-19 vaccine highly recommended, but is not required for university staff, faculty, or students. 1. Pay your Tuition Payment Information You can find your account balance on ULink. 2. Submit your Final High School Transcript Submit your final high school transcript with graduation date by August 1st. Your financial aid will not be disbursed if it is not on file. Please have your school send your transcript electronically through Parchment (preferred method) or mail to: Office of Admissions Department AO University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 You may verify the receipt of your final transcript through your ULink account under "view my undergraduate application status." Look for "FINAL" and a recent date in the education information section of this page. Please allow five days for processing after your transcript is sent. 3. Order a Parking Pass Order Here If you plan to have a car on campus you'll need to order a parking pass. 4. Complete New Cards Navigator New Cards Navigator Info The New Cards Navigator, in tandem with your other first year experiences, will ease your college transition and help you to understand the academic policies, procedures, and opportunities that will make your time at the university as successful as possible. Complete the Know Before You Go Module between August 1 and August 16. 5. Order Books Order Here Students can purchase course materials in person at the campus bookstores or via the UofL Bookstore website. Store Hours: Monday - Friday, 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. 6. Verify your Meal Plan Meal Plan Options Meal plans are convenient, flexible, and loaded with options. Your meal plan includes dining locations all across campus with a range of menus and offerings. You’ll get guaranteed value, whether you eat on campus three times a week or three times a day! We’ve got you covered. See our Meal Plan options for more information. 7. Download the New Cards App Download the App You'll use the New Cards app to see your personalized Welcome Week schedule and to sign in to the Signature Events. With the New Cards app, you'll have answers at your fingertips, as well as phone and web links to frequent campus contacts, dining options and hours, and more. 8. Attend Welcome Week Events Welcome Week Details Welcome Week is an exciting four days of events and activities that help first year, transfer, and returning students get the fall semester started off right. With over 50 events, Welcome Week will help you meet tons of new and upperclass students and make UofL your new home, all while enjoying an almost endless supply of free food and prizes. All freshmen are expected to attend Signature Events. IMPORTANT DATES PAY YOUR ENROLLMENT DEPOSIT & REGISTER FOR ORIENTATION | Enrollment Deadline is May 1, 2022 FINAL HIGH SCHOOL TRANSCRIPTS DUE | August 1, 2022 MOVE-IN DAY FOR ALL FRESHMEN STUDENTS | TBD WELCOME WEEK | TBD CLASSES BEGIN | TBD TUITION PAYMENT DUE DATE & PAYMENT PLAN ENROLLMENT DEADLINE | TBD August, 2022 CONTACTS Orientation tel 502.852.7276 email orient@louisville.edu First-time-Freshman Checklist Freshman Orientation (Summer/Fall) 2022 Freshman Orientation Dates Orientation Agenda Freshman Orientation FAQS Family Orientation Admitted Student FAQs Technology Requirements Orientation Parking and Directions Cards Camp 2022 © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville