Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Campus Health Services Navigation Home Emergencies Medical Mental Health Emergencies Sexual Assault Emergency Contraception Bloodborne Pathogen Exposures Dental EmergenciesEmergencies Dropdown Toggle Medical Mental Health Emergencies Sexual Assault Emergency Contraception Bloodborne Pathogen Exposures Dental Services Medical Care Mental Health Services Sexual Health and Contraception Health Promotion BRICC Coalition PEACC Center Insurance Advocate Flu Shots & Care Workers compensation GreenDot ServicesServices Dropdown Toggle Medical Care Mental Health Services Sexual Health and Contraception Health Promotion BRICC Coalition PEACC Center Insurance Advocate Flu Shots & Care Workers compensation GreenDot Information Coronavirus Self Care Insurance Fees Immunizations Billing Questions Forms Health Professional Students Faculty & Staff Frequently Asked Questions Information for Students Who are Graduating or Have Graduated Self Isolation Guide TESTING Program InformationInformation Dropdown Toggle Coronavirus Self Care Insurance Fees Immunizations Billing Questions Forms Health Professional Students Faculty & Staff Frequently Asked Questions Information for Students Who are Graduating or Have Graduated Self Isolation Guide TESTING Program Resources Patient Health Travel Resources LGBTQ Healthcare Needs Drug Recall & Safety Faculty & Staff ResourcesResources Dropdown Toggle Patient Health Travel Resources LGBTQ Healthcare Needs Drug Recall & Safety Faculty & Staff About Us Locations and Hours Directions Staff Directory Contact Us Organizational Chart Mission, values, goals Reports & Publications Site map CHS Staff Login About UsAbout Us Dropdown Toggle Locations and Hours Directions Staff Directory Contact Us Organizational Chart Mission, values, goals Reports & Publications Site map CHS Staff Login Patient On-line Payment How to Make A COVID Vaccine Appointment GET VACCINATED SCHEDULE A VACCINE First Time Freshmen First Time Freshmen Requirements PRINT Check List FRESHMAN IMMUNIZATION REQUIREMENTS AND INSTRUCTIONS TO SUBMIT RECORDS FAQs for First Time Freshmen How to Locate Your Vaccination Records Home / Information / Immunizations / First Time Freshmen First Time Freshmen First Time Freshmen In order to provide a safe and healthy environment for your academic success, The University of Louisville implemented a First Time Freshman Immunization Compliance Requirement program beginning Fall 2014. All new incoming freshman students are required to provide proof of routine childhood immunization records against most vaccine preventable communicable diseases and a tuberculosis screening. Vaccine preventable diseases outbreaks continue to occur on and near college campuses throughout the United States. With the growth in on-campus housing, immunizations provide additional protection to ensure your safety as well as the safety of those around you. Communicable disease outbreaks can cause significant disruption to your academic program as well as to the University's operations. The University of Louisville's immunization requirements were developed utilizing the American College Health Association (ACHA), the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP), and the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CSC) immunization schedules, guidelines, and vaccine recommendations. For more information on the ACHA: http://www.acha.org/ACHA/Resources/Topics/Vaccine.aspx For more information on the ACIP: http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/acip/index.html For more information on the CDC: http://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/index.html Requirements Immunizations Required for First Time Freshman Students Failure to complete the First Time Freshman Immunization Compliance Requirement will result in the inability or delay of class registration. Deadline = Your Scheduled Orientation Date Required: Tdap, MMR, Hepatitis B, Varicella, Meningococcal ACWY, and Tuberculosis Questionnaire Recommended Only: Influenza, Hepatitis A, Meningococcal B, and HPV If any immunization doses are administered prior to vaccine schedule, additional dose(s) of vaccine or positive antibody titer (IgG/ Quantitative Immunoassay Value) test may be required Tdap (Tetanus, diphtheria, acellular pertussis) 1 Adult Dose of Tdap vaccine within the past 10 years prior to start of first semester MMR (Measles, Mumps, Rubella) 2 Dose Series of MMR combination vaccine Hepatitis B Option 1 3 Dose Series of Hepatitis B vaccine Option 2 3 Dose Series of Twinrix (Adult Dual Hepatitis A & Hepatitis B Vaccine) Varicella (Chicken Pox) 2 Doses of Varicella vaccine or Physician documentation of Chicken Pox disease history. Disease history may be notated on shot record, immunization certificate, or by official letter from medical provider's office. Meningococcal Quadravalent Vaccine 1 Dose of Meningococcal quadravalent (Menactra/MenACWY-D or Menveo/MenACWY-CRM) after age 16 TUBERCULOSIS (TB) QUESTIONNAIRE & TESTING The University's Freshman Tuberculosis Screening Questionnaire is Required for all first time freshman students TB testing is required ONLY if any questions are marked as "Yes" on the Tuberculosis (TB) Screening Questionnaire Option 1 TB Skin Test (PPD/TST) placed and read no earlier than 6 months before and no later than the start of classes • Documentation Must include both Placement Date and Read Date • Documentation Must include measurement of induration even if 0mm Option 2 If you have a history of positive skin test, TB blood test or tuberculosis please provide the following documentation: • Documentation of positive test result • Documentation of medical treatment including start date, and completion date • Copy of last Chest X-ray report • Completed TB symptom questionnaire RECOMMENDED IMMUNIZATIONS The following immunizations are Recommended for all students but are Not Required to complete the First Time Freshman Immunization Compliance Requirement Influenza Annual influenza vaccine is Free to all students and is offered by Campus Health Services thru several flu shot clinics around campus and each of our office locations every fall as soon as the vaccine is made available Hepatitis A Option 1 2 Dose Series of Hepatitis A vaccine Option 2** 3 Dose Series of Twinrix (Adult Dual Hepatitis A & Hepatitis B Vaccine) Meningococcal B Vaccine Option 1 2 Dose Series of Bexsero vaccine 16 to 23 years of age Option 2 2 Dose Series of Trumenba vaccine 16 to 23 years of age HPV (Gardasil) Option 1 3 doses of Gardisil vaccine Covid-19 Vaccine 1 or 2 dose series, depending on the vaccine brand PRINT Check List The link address is:http://louisville.edu/campushealth/files/2022FreshmanImmunizationCHS FRESHMAN IMMUNIZATION REQUIREMENTS AND INSTRUCTIONS TO SUBMIT RECORDS Required Immunizations: Tdap (Tetanus-diptheria-acellular pertussis) 1 dose within the last 10 years MMR (Measles-Mumps-Rubella) Two doses of vaccine OR Positive antibody blood tests Hepatitis B 3 Doses of Hepatitis B vaccine OR Positive antibody blood test Varicella (Chickenpox) Vaccine 2 doses of vaccine OR Positive antibody blood test OR Physician Documentation of disease Quadrivalent Meningococcal Vaccine 1 dose after the age of 16 Meningococcal B (two dose vaccination series) Tuberculosis Screening TB Screening Questionnaire Additional Suggested immunizations Annual Influenza Shot Hepatitis A (two dose vaccination series) Meningococcal B (two dose vaccination series) Human Papilloma Virus (three dose vaccination series) COVID-19 Vaccine (2-dose series or 1-dose J&J vaccine) How to Submit Your Records To submit your records: Have a copy of your immunization card or records in a PNG, JPG, GIF or PDF format ready. Log into the Campus Health Patient Portal by going to https://louisvilleportal.pointnclick.com, Log in with Ulink ID@louisville.edu (a0bcde02@louisville.edu)and associated password. Click the “Student, Staff and Faculty” button at the top of the page. Microsoft login screen will open. Sign in using your ULINK ID@louisville.edu and associated password “Stay Signed In” screen will appear and click No. Confirm your identity by entering your date of birth and click proceed. You should now be on the main page of the Campus Health Patient Portal. Select Immunization Upload from the menu on the left side of the screen near the bottom. Select Add Immunization Record to upload documents and enter dates of vaccinations. Click Save Log out of the portal. To download a copy of the medical or religious waiver for COVID vaccine: Go to https://louisvilleportal.pointnclick.com Click the “Student, Staff and Faculty” button at the top of the page. Microsoft login screen will open. Sign in using your ULINK ID@louisville.edu and associated password “Stay Signed In” screen will appear and click No. Confirm your identity by entering your date of birth and click proceed. You should now be on the main page of the Campus Health Patient Portal. Select “Downloadable Forms” from the menu on the left From the available forms click the download button below the appropriate form (See image below) After downloading the form, complete and sign the document. Medical waivers require a healthcare provider complete a separate statement that is included with the download. If you are submitting a religious waiver, it must be notarized by a public notary before it can be uploaded. To upload your completed waiver: Log into the patient portal as above. Click on Downloadable Forms again on the left-hand side of the screen Downloadable Forms screen appears (See below) Select the Upload button for the form you are submitting (Step 2) Once uploaded click Save (Step 3) Log out of the portal. Thank you for your assistance. Please allow 5 days for Campus Health to process any records or waivers. Back to top of page FAQs for First Time Freshmen Are immunizations required in order to attend the university? When are my documents due? How do I submit documentation? What is acceptable documentation for vaccines administered and blood work? What if I am unable to obtain documentation for my childhood vaccines? Are vaccines free at Campus Health Services? What documentation is required if I have a history of chickenpox? Where can I go to have vaccines and labs administered for immunization compliance? Do I need a TB skin test? What if I did not receive vaccinations due to my religious beliefs? How do I contact Campus Health if I have questions? Are immunizations required in order to attend the university? YES Back to top When are my documents due? Your vaccine documentation is due no later than the first day of classes. Back to top How do I submit documentation? Please bring your immunization records and completed forms to your orientation session. Campus Health Services staff will be there to assist you. Back to top What is acceptable documentation for vaccines administered and blood work? Acceptable document includes state immunization certificate and/or vaccine administration or medical records. A full copy of the lab result report is required for any Antibody Blood Titer (IgG) test preformed for proof of positive immune status. Back to top What if I am unable to obtain documentation for my childhood vaccines? If you are unable to obtain official documentation of your immunization records the following is required: Receive a TdaP tetanus vaccination One Meningococcal vaccine (Menactra or Menveo) at age 16 or older, regardless of doses received prior to age 16. If you believe you have had typical childhood vaccinations or illness, you may have the following ANTIBODY tests drawn; (1) measles, (2) mumps, (3) rubella, (4) varicella (Chickenpox) and (5) Hepatitis B. Receive a Hepatitis A vaccine.(optional) Back to top Are vaccines free at Campus Health Services? No. We can bill most routine vaccines to your medical insurance plan or we offer a discounted cash price prices for same day payments by check or credit card. Our staff is available to assist you with determining which is the cheapest and most efficient way for you to get your immunization requirements completed but it is your responsibility to verify your coverage with your insurance plan. Payment for services depends on your carrier benefits and restrictions. Please contact your carrier prior to receiving services. We are not responsible for charges not covered by your health plan or applied to deductible. Campus Health Services cannot bill certain Medicaid plans due to network restrictions. Please contact our Insurance Advocate at 852-6519 if you have any questions regarding Medicaid coverage. Back to top What documentation is required if I have a history of chickenpox? Physician documentation of Chicken Pox disease history. If you do not have a physician documentation of the active chicken pox infection, you will need to have a blood test for antibody blood test for Chicken Pox. . Back to top Where can I go to have vaccines and labs administered for immunization compliance? You may see any community healthcare provider or clinic. On campus you can utilize either of the health services offices located at Cardinal Station or the Health Sciences Center. Back to top Do I need a TB skin test? Maybe. All incoming students will be screened for TB risk factors through the incoming student tuberculosis screening questionnaire. While all incoming students must complete the form. Only those students with identifiable risk factors on the form will be required to have additional testing. Back to top What if I did not receive vaccines due to my religious beliefs? Please contact our office by email: vaccinerecords@louisville.edu or by phone: 502-852-6446 to discuss our exception policy with on of our immunization coordinators. Back to top How do I contact Campus Health if I have questions? You may contact us via email at vaccinerecords@louisville.edu or call the immunization coordinators at 502-852-2708 between 8:30 - 4:30 Monday - Friday. Back to top How to Locate Your Vaccination Records The link address is:https://www.cdc.gov/vaccines/adults/vaccination-records.html First Time Freshmen First Time Freshmen Requirements PRINT Check List FRESHMAN IMMUNIZATION REQUIREMENTS AND INSTRUCTIONS TO SUBMIT RECORDS FAQs for First Time Freshmen How to Locate Your Vaccination Records Campus Health Services Cardinal Station - Belknap 215 Central Ave., Suite 110 Louisville, KY 40208 P(502) 852-6479 F(502) 852-0660 HIPAA Notice of Privacy Practices HIPAA Notice of Privacy Practices (en español) Notice of Nondiscrimination Health Care Outpatient Center - HSC 401 E. Chestnut., Suite 110 Louisville, KY 40202 P(502) 852-6446 F(502) 852-6649 Contact Us Appointments - Belknap: (502) 852-6479 Appointments - HSC: (502) 852-6446 Insurance Advocate: (502)-852-6519 Immunization Coordinator: (502) 852-2708 © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville