No images? Click here August 9, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews IMPORTANT INFORMATION Masks required again Starting Aug. 9, all university members are required to mask in public, indoor spaces, regardless of vaccination status. Public, indoor spaces are defined as any space inside a campus building that is not considered a private room or private office. Indoor classrooms, academic labs, common areas, libraries, hallways, elevators and restrooms are all considered public spaces that are subject to the mask requirement. Unvaccinated and testing Starting Aug. 17, unvaccinated university members are required to get tested regularly. For the full schedule of required testing periods, visit the Testing Program section of the COVID-19 website. Get vaccinated now to avoid the hassle of required testing. Out-of-state students need to submit vaccination record Submit your out-of-state COVID-19 vaccination record if you were vaccinated outside the state of Kentucky. Campus Health Services only has access to the Kentucky immunization registry. Please follow these instructions to upload your out-of-state COVID-19 vaccination documentation to the university's secure health portal. Questions or concerns about COVID-19 protocols Review the COVID-19 website, read the FAQs or call, live chat or email a helpful member of the Business Operations COVID-19 Support Team. UofL students, enter to win prizes if you are fully vaccinated Prizes awarded after entry deadline: Round 1— September 15, 2021, Round 2 — October 15, 2021 Randomly selected UofL students enrolled for fall 2021 semester are eligible to win prizes—only one prize awarded per student for the fall semester. One entry per student who is fully vaccinated. louisville.edu/studentaffairs/forms/vaccination 2021-22 parking permits on sale All UofL parking permits must be replaced no later than Aug. 22. Parking permits are on sale online and in the Parking Office. SPECIAL OPERATING HOURS SRC fall hours Beginning Monday, August 23 the SRC will expand hours of operation. Hours will be Monday thru Thursday 6:30 AM to 11:00 PM, Fridays 6:30 AM to 10:00 PM, Saturdays 11:00 AM to 7:00 PM and Sundays 1:00 PM to 9:00 PM. We look forward to seeing you soon. @ULSRC EVENTS WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS Intramural Track Meet Every year the Intramural Department hosts a Track Meet at Cardinal Park. There are all sorts of events to participate. The best part is that it is completely free to participate. This year the event will be held on September 14. imleagues.com/louisville Badminton Club In the SRC The Badminton Club meets on Friday evenings in the SRC from 6-9pm on the upstairs gym floor courts. Professional instruction and open play is available in a low-key, inclusive environment. See our website for contact information. EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES The UofL Campus Store is hiring ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. What is the UofL Student Advocate? A. The Student Advocate helps students navigate educational, personal, and other obstacles that affect their ability to succeed in college. The Student Advocate also assists with compassionate withdrawals. If you have a question or concern, you can bring it to the Student Advocate by emailing advocate@louisville.edu. DID YOU KNOW? With a valid UofL photo I.D., you can ride anywhere, anytime on TARC at no cost to you. Including the Cardinal Shuttle (Belknap Campus) #94. Just show the bus driver your card. http://louisville.edu/parking/transportation CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe