[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Bachelor's Degree Programs / Bachelor of Science in Organizational Leadership and Learning /-/images/pages/bsoll/OLWEB1904_OLL_1596x740_4.png Open doors to new possibilities bsoll,bsoll-hcl-cbe,ece bsoll-program-page organic ../../programs/bachelors/bachelor-of-science-in-organizational-leadership-and-learning?tab=apply Veronica Johnson Online Enrollment Counselor Online Bachelor of Science in Organizational Leadership and Learning The bachelor’s in Organizational Leadership and Learning (BSOLL) is an ideal way for adult professionals - 22 years of age or older - with extensive work experience to complete a highly-versatile bachelor’s degree and propel their career forward. UofL's online Organizational Leadership and Learning bachelor's (BSOLL) is a skills-driven degree completion program. BSOLL is designed to equip you with the knowledge required for career advancement or a possible career change in today’s competitive and evolving workforce. Choose from 9 specialized tracks to fit your career goals. Become an even more valuable member of any company or organization today. BSOLL students can also graduate faster by earning college credit for work experience through the program's Prior Learning Assessment component and have the opportunity to earn up to 48 credit hours tuition free - up to $24,384 in savings. The online organizational leadership and learning program is offered through the College of Education & Human Development at the University of Louisville. BSOLL Virtual Learn & Connect Session: Tuesday, June 7 12:00 - 12:30 p.m. Join the BSOLL faculty & staff for an online info session to learn more about the program, how to apply, and get your questions answered. Register Now! Overview Outcomes Application Tracks Courses Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Tuition and fees are subject to change at any time without prior notice. Highlights Acquire in-demand skills such as leadership, project management, organizational change and more! Choose the start date that works best for you—multiple dates offered (see application tab for more information). Take advantage of a fully online program—designed to fit your life with 24/7 access to classes. Earn credit for work experience, and save time and money with the Prior Learning Assessment (PLA) core class a key benefit that makes this the affordable online degree completion program. Finish your bachelor's degree online within 3 semesters (full-time students). Gain the opportunity to earn resume boosting digital badges from industry partners including IBM, Google, Microsoft, Adobe and more—included in multiple courses at no additional cost. Choose from 9 specialized tracks in: Leadership, Training & Organization Development Healthcare Leadership (term or flex option) Project Management for the Modern Workforce Digital Leadership/IT Diversity, Inclusion, Community Engagement, Equity Human Resource Development Counseling & Human Relations Early Childhood Education Career & Technical Education “My skillset showed that I was a good candidate for my current position, however, the absence of my bachelor’s degree would have halted my advancement and my financial growth. My degree is what sealed the deal for me. That piece alone allowed me to beat out other candidates for my role that I currently hold.” — Ronnie Stoner, Online BSOLL Graduate START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Credit for Prior Learning In the first online core course, LEAD 300/307 Prior Learning Assessment, students evaluate and document their learning from work experiences, existing course credits and associate degrees, technical and specialized training to receive credit for the specialization. They may earn up to 48 credit hours in the specialization component at no cost (equivalent of up to 16 courses). Students then proceed to the remaining courses in the designated track. Transfer Credit If you previously started a bachelor's degree but didn't finish, UofL's online organizational leadership and learning bachelor's is designed to help you achieve degree completion. Transfer up to 60 hours from a community college and up to 90 hours from an accredited 4-year college. You can also take all your general education requirements online at UofL! UofL Academic Advisers are available to assist with your degree planning. Are you a KCTCS student? Students who have been enrolled at a KCTCS school and have fulfilled all general education requirements can have them transferred in their entirety and may begin immediately with online upper level coursework at UofL. Visit our KCTCS Transfers Page for more information. 100% ONLINE COURSES With UofL Online, you can complete this degree on your own time through fully online coursework. Learn More Save Up To $24k IN TUITION Save up to $24,384 in tuition for workplace learning and military training, with our Prior Learning Assessment (PLA). Learn More 36 CORE UofL CREDITS Take accelerated courses and stay on track to graduation. Learn what you need for who you want to become. Learn More "I had been passed over for promotions because I didn't have a degree. What I realized is that it's so applicable to everything I do, and everything I've been doing for 30 years." JENNIFER MORGAN Online BSOLL Graduate UofL’s online bachelor’s in Organizational Leadership & Learning (BSOLL) is a worthwhile investment, especially in today’s job market and economy. It is designed to be a fast and affordable option for completing your bachelor's, with the Prior Learning Assessment allowing you to earn tuition-free college credit towards your degree, from your work experience. You will learn the skills needed to position yourself for a multitude of career advancement opportunities. Our BSOLL graduates are employed in a variety of roles in leadership, training and development, human resources, and workforce development, including: Director of Training and Marketing Manager of Training and Team Development Senior Business Solutions Consultant VP of Human Resources VP of Operations Senior Process Improvement Manager Assistant Director Chief Executive Officer Chief IT Officer HR Specialist, Education Manager Senior IT Systems Analyst District Sales Manager Senior VP and General Manager Technical Trainer Supervisor, Vocational Rehab Counselor Diversity and Inclusion Manager And more! Companies and organizations where you can find our BSOLL alumni include Brown-Forman, UPS, Humana, YUM! Brands, United States Army, UofL Health, Mercer, Mitchel International, CHI St. Joseph Health, Harrah’s, Farm Credit Mid-America, ADP, Medtronic, Cigna, United States Soccer, Kentucky Chamber of Commerce, and more. Take the step today to advance your education and be ready for the workforce of tomorrow! START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION "While I was working in a training role during my time at UofL, the skills I learned and applied at work allowed me to advance to a higher instructional design role within a year of my graduation date." Brittany Geisenburg BSOLL Graduate Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall I August October 1 Fall II October December 1 Spring I January February 1 Spring II Late February May 1 Summer May Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete undergraduate application Submit application fee of $25 Order official college transcripts from all previous institutions Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Note: Electronic transcripts are only accepted directly from the institution(s). Please have electronic transcripts sent to adetran@louisville.edu. Admission Requirements Completed undergraduate application $25 non-refundable application fee Minimum undergraduate GPA of 2.25 to be admitted in good standing (applicants with a 2.0 - 2.24 GPA may inquire about conditional admission) Official transcripts for all college credits earned at an accredited institution* Minimum age: 22 Prior education: 24 college credit hours or more completed prior to applying * See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. Additional Program Requirements Applicants applying for admission to Organizational Leadership and Learning must meet the following criteria, in addition to the admission standards listed above. Prior extensive and documented work experience, or equivalent experiences as determined by the program faculty, or technical coursework in a training area or occupation is required. For the BS in Organizational Leadership and Learning with a track in Career and Technical Education, the applicant must be a certified vocational teacher. A minimum of 2,000 hours of supervised work experience in the occupation to be taught is required. Start Your Application Leadership, Training & Organizational Development This flagship track is designed for business professionals who want to gain overall leadership knowledge applicable across a broad range of industries, those who have work experience and/or some college credit and are seeking a non-specialized leadership bachelor’s degree, and those who are currently serving or have previously served in the military. Develop your skills in leadership and ability to improve organizational and employee effectiveness and productivity, workplace learning, work satisfaction, performance, morale and/or quality of work life. View track courses. Healthcare Leadership Visit the Healthcare Leadership program page for information. Project Management for the Modern Workforce This track is designed for business professionals who want well-rounded skills in managing a multitude of projects in any industry and those who seek a pathway to a project management role or career. This track goes beyond traditional project management knowledge, providing students the opportunity to expand their expertise and successfully respond to organizational change in areas of technology, logistics and personnel management, effective communication, data analysis and efficiently built structures. Upon successful completion of this program, students will be prepared to pursue the Certified Associate in Project Management (CAPM) or the Project Management Certification (PMP). View track courses. Digital Leadership/IT This track is for business professionals who seek to develop their leadership skills as well as their knowledge in Information Technologies (IT). The curriculum focuses on organizational and employee effectiveness, work morale, and more, while also providing broad-based technology knowledge. Gain the expertise to effectively lead employees in the rapidly-changing technology field and in industries that technology impacts. UofL has partnered with several technology industry vendors including IBM, Google, Microsoft, and Adobe to provide the opportunity to earn recognized technology micro-credentials in certain courses, at no additional cost. Faculty and staff work with individual students to determine which micro-credentials are the best fit for their experience and career path. The Digital Leadership/IT track includes an applied leadership project, which can conveniently be completed within your workplace. View track courses. Diversity, Inclusion, Community Engagement, Equity This track is designed for working professionals across all industries, seeking to pioneer and efficiently implement diversity, equity, inclusion, and community engagement efforts in the workplace. The innovative curriculum is beneficial for those wanting to start or advance their career in leadership, HR, talent acquisition/recruitment, and diversity & inclusion positions. This track is also relevant for anyone seeing areas of injustice and inequity in their workplace, or finds their organization lacks diversity, inclusion and engagement in the community, and would like to be an agent of change. Gain insight on how diversity efforts support an organization’s success, develop expertise to effectively lead organizational inclusion and equity strategies, and effectively address a variety of diversity challenges in the modern workforce. Students can use these vital skills for both professional and personal advocacy. View track courses. Human Resource Development This track is specifically designed for business professionals who would like to start or advance their career in the Human Resource field. Develop your fundamental knowledge of Human Resources as well as the analytical and strategical skills necessary for the modern HR role. This track focuses on coaching and talent management, mediating conflict, data analytics needed to understand human dynamics in the organizational environment, employee satisfaction, and more. Successful completion of this program will help prepare graduates for the Certified Professional Human Resources (PHR) exam. View track courses. Counseling and Human Relations All organizations perform better when their leadership is of top quality. This is true of the counseling and human relations field, in which great leadership can move an organization from adequate to exceptional. The Counseling and Human Relations (CHR) track provides a profound educational experience from world-renowned faculty to assist students with honing their natural skills and talents. Students in this track become well rounded leaders by developing foundational knowledge of mental health needs within culturally diverse populations, mental health methodology and techniques, and the skills to effectively incorporate this knowledge into leadership and management roles. Students acquire both interpersonal and intrapersonal skills to tactfully resolve conflict, negotiate solutions, build relationships and maintain workload balances which culminate in authentic leadership. Graduates can advance professionally and further their education by pursuing a master’s program in Counseling, Human Resources, Social Work or other related disciplines. View track courses. Early Childhood Education Visit the Early Childhood Education program page for information. Career & Technical Education This track is designed specifically for occupation-based career and technical education instructors in Kentucky technical centers or secondary schools who want to pursue a change in rank. Courses focus on teaching career and technical education, evaluation, instruction, and classroom management skills. Graduates receive a Rank I from the Kentucky Educational Professional Standards Board by completing the CA-1 form. Qualifying individuals have been accepted to the New Teacher Institute program through the Kentucky Department of Education Office of Career and Technical Education. The BSOLL Career and Technical Education Grades 5-12 Rank Change program requires completion of the NTI induction program, as well as up to 24 hours of the degree core courses, for a total of 120 hours with an overall grade point average of 2.25 and a grade point average of 2.5 and a C or better earned in all major courses. View track courses. "I was very much in a place of seeking. I was trying to identify what was next... This program unlocked freedom for me. It helped me see inside, to identify what my unique passion and gifts are." DAVID BEUMER ONLINE BSOLL GRADUATE The online Bachelor’s of Science in Organizational Leadership and Learning from UofL is a 120 credit hour program, with the following curriculum components: Cardinal Core requirements– transferred credits or completed at UofL (31 credit hours) OLL Program Core Courses (24-29 credit hours) Work Specialization/PLA Award (up to 48 credit hours) Track Courses (12-15 credit hours) Elective Courses (5-44 credit hours) Course List Hours Cardinal Core Requirements 31 OLL Core Courses 24-29 LEAD 300/307 Prior Learning Assessment (take within the first year) 3 LEAD 311 Needs Assessment 3 LEAD 316 Instructional Strategies and Group Facilitation Techniques 3 LEAD 341 Managing Projects in the Workplace 3 LEAD 411 Human Resources Fundamentals 3 LEAD 442 Supporting Organizational Change 3 LEAD 578 Workplace and Information Ethics 3 LEAD 540 Program Exit (Culminating Undergraduate Experience/Practicum) 3 - 8 Work Specialization (credit hours needed will vary on hours earned through the Prior Learning Assessment portfolio process) 9-48 LEAD 290 Occupational Subjects 2-24 LEAD 291 Occupational Learning 2-24 LEAD 390 Advanced Occupational Subjects 2-18 LEAD 391 Advanced Occupational Experiences 2-18 Track Courses (choose 1, see accordion below for individual track courses) 12-15 Leadership, Training and Organizational Development Healthcare Leadership Project Management for the Modern Workforce Digital Leadership/IT Human Resource Development Diversity, Inclusion, Community Engagement, Equity Counseling and Human Relations Early Childhood Education Career and Technical Education Electives 5-44 Total Credit Hours 120 Leadership, Training & Organizational Development Leadership, Training and Organization Development Track Courses (Choose 4) Hours LEAD 312 Designing Learning 3 LEAD 314 Diversity in the Workplace (SB) (D1) 3 LEAD 332 Measuring & Evaluating Effectiveness 3 LEAD 412 Coaching & Talent Management 3 LEAD 420 Conflict Management in the Workplace 3 LEAD 460 Adult Learning & Diversity 3 LEAD 490 Leadership & Management 3 LEAD 575 Instructional Technology 3 Total Credit Hours 12 Healthcare Leadership Visit the Healthcare Leadership program page for information. Project Management for the Modern Workforce Project Management for the Modern Workforce Track Courses Hours LEAD 220 Data Analytics in Organizations 3 LEAD 314 Diversity in the Workplace 3 LEAD 412 Coaching and Talent Development 3 LEAD 490 Leadership and Management 3 Total Credit Hours 12 Digital Leadership/IT Digital Leadership/IT Track Courses Hours LEAD 220 Data Analytics in Organizations 3 LEAD 256 Technology Industries Badges I 3 LEAD 257 Technology Industries Badges II 3 LEAD 490 Leadership and Management 3 Total Credit Hours 12 Human Resource Development Human Resource Development Track Courses (Choose 4) Hours LEAD 220 Data Analytics in Organizations 3 LEAD 412 Coaching and Talent Management 3 LEAD 420 Conflict Management in the Workplace 3 LEAD 490 Leadership and Management 3 LEAD 511 Ethical Theories and Ethical Problem-Solving 3 Workplace Health, Safety and Security - course number pending 3 Diversity, Inclusion, Community Engagement, Equity Diversity, Inclusion, Community Engagement, Equity Track Courses Hours LEAD 314 Diversity in the Workplace 3 LEAD 324 Antiracism: A Fundamental to a New System 3 LEAD 424 Organizational Partnership and Community Engagement 3 LEAD 460 Adult Learning and Diversity 3 Total Credit Hours 12 Counseling and Human Relations Counseling and Human Relations Track Courses Hours ECPY 304 Mental Health and the Helping Professions 3 ECPY 319 Theories of Counseling 3 ECPY 363 Culture, Social Justice, and Advocacy 3 ECPY 412 Stress, Coping and Resilience 3 ECPY 422 Emotional Intelligence 3 Total Credit Hours 15 Early Childhood Education Visit the Early Childhood Education program page for information. Career & Technical Education Career and Technical Education Track Courses Hours EDTP 420 Reading and Writing Across the Curriculum 3 LEAD 312 Designing Learning 3 LEAD 332 Measuring and Evaluating Effectiveness 3 LEAD 510 Teaching Career and Technical Education 3 Choose one of the following: ECPY 507, EDSP 540, or EDSP 545 3 Total Credit Hours 15 Course Descriptions FEATURED FACULTY If this education opportunity matches your needs and goals, contact us today and we’ll help you get started on the path to success! The set of questions and answers outlined below can help you learn more about our program, delivery method, application and admission process, financial aid options and how to succeed as an online student at UofL. Can I enroll in the program if I still have General Education courses to complete? Yes, as long as you have been admitted to the College of Education & Human Development and the Organizational Leadership and Learning degree program. The academic counselor will work with you to identify the necessary courses and options. Will I pay UofL tuition for the credits I am awarded from my work experience and/or military/industry training? No, you will earn those credits free of charge! In other words, by completing the LEAD 300 Prior Learning Assessment course (which is a 3-credit hour class at normal tuition cost), and submitting a completed portfolio in which you will document and validate your work experience (i.e., on-the-job training, professional development, etc.) and/or military and /or industry training; you will be credited (based upon Committee decision), at NO cost, up to 48 credit hours. Is the major track mandatory? Yes. One of the requirements for graduation is satisfactory completion of the courses within the major track. Admitted students will receive a program sheet that outlines academic and exit requirements. Upon completion of the Bachelor of Science in Organizational Leadership and Learning degree, can I pursue my master’s in another field? Yes. Some graduates of the BSOLL degree continue their education and receive their Master's in Human Resources and Organizational Development, Communications and many other fields. The graduate program you are seeking will be the determining factor due to varied requirements. Is there a part-time option? Yes, you can complete this program as a part-time student. Is there a GPA requirement for admission? Yes, you must have a minimum of GPA of 2.25 (on a 4.0 scale) to be considered for admission to the program unconditionally. If you do not have a 2.25 GPA, you can be accepted provisionally. The Admissions Committee will assess applications on a case-by-case basis, carefully considering all qualifications. Is this program suitable for me as an out-of-state student? Yes, this program is applicable and available to students in other states. There are no campus requirements. The online learning platform used to deliver the course helps connect you with your peers and professors, as you would be on campus. How long are the courses? All courses, with the exception of LEAD 540, are offered in an 8-week format. How do I learn more about the digital badges offered in the program? Students will have opportunities to earn digital badges in some of the BSOLL courses from technology vendors including IBM, Google, Microsoft, AWS, and more. Each class instructor for digital badge selected courses will provide further detail and select the digital badge(s) that aligns best to each course in the syllabi. I’m a KCTCS student, is there a transfer pathway for me? Check out the transfer pathways available from our KCTCS Transfer Page for more information. For more information, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email, online@louisville.edu. Overview Outcomes Admissions TRACKS COURSES TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link