[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Admissions / International Admission Requirements /-/images/pages/2010_INTERNATIONAL_1596x740.jpg INTERNATIONAL REQUIREMENTS international-students-page organic http://stage.louisville.edu/delphi-dev/apply Welcome to UofL! The University of Louisville is proud to serve as the academic base for students from more than 83 countries around the world. Through online programs at UofL, students can receive quality education without ever entering a traditional classroom. The directions below are specific to international students completing an academic program from their home country. Online programs at the University of Louisville do not have campus requirements. International students do not need a U.S. visa to enroll in an online program as the programs can be completed from anywhere outside the U.S. If you plan to enter the U.S. for coursework or for graduation, visit the undergraduate admissions or graduate admissions website for a list of specific requirements for visiting the U.S. To see specific minimum standards and requirements for admission, visit UofL’s online program finder and select your program of choice. Undergraduate Applicants Requirements In addition to the requirements for admission listed on the individual Apply Now pages for UofL's online undergraduate programs, international applicants must have all transcripts reviewed by either the World Education Services (WES) or Educational Credentials Evaluators (ECE) in order to submit a “course-by-course evaluation” to Undergraduate Admissions. An application for evaluation and a list of services and fees is available on their websites: www.WES.org or www.ECE.org. Graduate Applicants Requirements In addition to the requirements for admission listed on the individual Apply Now pages for UofL's online graduate programs, international applicants must submit specific documentation required by the academic departments as applicable. Applicants must have all their transcripts reviewed by either the World Education Services (WES) or Educational Credentials Evaluators (ECE) in order to submit a “course-by-course evaluation” to Graduate Admissions. An application for evaluation and a list of services and fees is available on their websites: www.WES.org or www.ECE.org. IELTS/TOEFL Requirements(all applicants) Students for whom English is not their primary language must show English language proficiency by successfully completing one of the following: International English Language Testing System (IELTS) examination – minimum score: 6.5 Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) examination – minimum scores: 550 on the paper-based TOEFL, 213 on the computer-based TOEFL or 79-80 on the internet-based TOEFL Duolingo - (for applying to graduate programs only) minimum score of 105 on the English test. Must submit subscores and tests must have been taken after 1 January 2020. Note: International students who have earned a degree from an accredited college or university in the U.S. are not required to complete the TOEFL or IELTS. Visa Holders (Campus Students) Online programs at UofL do not require campus attendance. Therefore, international applicants and students enrolled in online programs do not qualify for US Visa. If you are an F-1 visa holder and your course of study is a language program, no online or distance education classes may be considered to count toward classroom hours or credit. If you are in your last semester of study and only one course is needed to complete the program, it cannot be an online course or other form of distance education course. Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May/June Please mail all application materials directly to the following addresses. Undergraduate Applicants Graduate Applicants Office of Admissions, Dept. AO University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 USA Graduate Admissions University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 USA Ready to apply? To confirm requirements for your program of choice, contact our enrollment counselors at 800.871.8635 or online@louisville.edu. 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link