Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Research and Innovation Navigation Home About Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program Researchers Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway ResearchersResearchers Dropdown Toggle Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway Industry Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started IndustryIndustry Dropdown Toggle Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started Students & Post-Docs Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Students & Post-DocsStudents & Post-Docs Dropdown Toggle Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Participants Children in Research Open Trials ParticipantsParticipants Dropdown Toggle Children in Research Open Trials Contact Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup ContactContact Dropdown Toggle Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup Proposal Development and Submission Common Elements of a Proposal Budget and Financials Proposal Clearance Designating Funding as a Gift or a Sponsored Program Home / Researchers / Proposal Development and Submission Proposal Development and Submission Once you find a funding opportunity that matches your research goals, it's time to begin preparing your proposal. Before you do, it is important to be familiar with the common elements that must be included in proposals. Review the checklist, then tackle each of the steps below to get your proposal developed, submitted and funding your work. If your proposal is industry-sponsored, there may be additional considerations. Please visit our industry proposals page for more information. Step 1: Preparation Prepare to develop your proposal by learning more about institutional rules and policies that apply to your work. These include: General UofL information required by funding agencies, including proof of non-profit status, tax forms, etc. These include the UofL Research Foundation DUNS Number, ULRF EIN, General ULRF Information; UofL's Fees and Administration (F&A) rates, which govern the percentage of overhead applied to awards; Submitting your proposal for clearance through the university's iRIS system; UofL's regulatory and compliance requirements, such as how to handle research with human subjects; Guidance on relevant salary caps for DHHS & NIH Sponsored Programs. Step 2: Development The second step in the development process is to develop your team and drafting your proposal. Time management is critical, and it's important to give yourself enough time to finalize your proposal before the sponsor's deadline. In this step, you should: Find collaborators whose research expertise may compliment your proposal. You can search for possible collaborators using UofL's sponsored ORCiD instance, which catalogs the publications and awards of UofL faculty. Outline your idea and identify any gaps / issues that may prevent if from fully responding to the solicitation. Complete your budget. This will include assigning 'effort,' or the percentage of salary release by the proposed award for each collaborator. You should also account for the percentage of F&A, or overhead, that will be applied to your award. Write your proposal. This is, of course, the most time consuming piece of the process, so it's important to budget time accordingly. Fortunately, some resources are available to help you, including writing and editing assistance and in some cases, even graphic design support. Review. We recommend having colleagues or members of our staff, especially those who have successfully applied to the same funding mechanism before, review your proposal before finalizing. They may be able to help you catch any errors, strengthen arguments, and generally make sure your proposal is the best it can be. Industry-sponsored projects may involve different requirements and steps. To learn more about industry projects, please visit our Industry Partnerships page. New faculty members may also be interested in completing the Essentials of Grant Proposal Development CITI course, which provides basic training on everything from crafting your narrative to preparing your budget justification. If you have questions or need assistance in the proposal development process, please contact staff in the Office of Research Development and Strategic Initiatives. Step 3: Prepare to Submit Ahead of your proposal being submitted to the funding agency, you are first required to submit all components of the proposal through UofL's instance of iRIS. This may included a Proposal Clearance Form. Please ensure you have submitted all the forms required for your proposal type. Two weeks ahead of your submission date, you should also contact the Office of Sponsored Programs Administration and inform them of your intent to submit. Step 4: Submit The last step is submitting your proposal. Many proposals are submitted by the institution on behalf of the PI. In the event that the sponsoring agency allows the PI to directly submit, you still must submit your materials through iRIS prior to submission. In order to ensure submission, the final version of the proposal and all documents above must be submitted to IRIS at least five (5) full business days prior to sponsoring agency deadline. If your proposal is ultimately funded, OSPA also can help you set up and manage your award. Learn more on our Awards and Agreements page. Proposal Development and Submission Common Elements of a Proposal Budget and Financials Proposal Clearance Designating Funding as a Gift or a Sponsored Program CONTACT For more information or assistance with finding funding opportunities or developing proposals, please contact: Office of Research Development and Strategic Initiatives resdevel@louisville.edu Phone: 502.852.6512 Fax: 502.852.8361 FULL STAFF LISTING -> RESEARCH HANDBOOK More information on the Office of Research and Innovation's policies and procedures can be found in the Research Handbook. Proposal development and budgeting are covered in Chapter 3. OFFICE OF RESEARCH & INNOVATION University of Louisville 300 E Market Street Louisville, Kentucky 40202 MORE INFORMATION Phone (Main) 502.852.6512, 502.852.8361 (Fax) Looking for a unit within the Office of Research and Innovation? Contact information here. Email Email Research and Innovation Service Account © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville