No images? Click here November 29, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews IMPORTANT INFORMATION Policy User Accounts and Acceptable Use Persons using university resources are responsible for lawful and appropriate use of computing facilities and devices. All users must abide by the University’s Information Security Polices and Standards. See policies and standards overview. Things to know about Recognized Student Organizations The University of Louisville hosts 458 student organizations covering a wide variety of student interests. These groups provide a wonderful opportunity to become involved in campus life and to connect with other students on campus. louisville.edu/dos/students/studentorganizations ACADEMICS Rainbow Cords – December Graduates If you're a LGBTQ+ student who is graduating in December, register for rainbow cords today! Cords can be worn during commencement and are available for pick-up at the Cultural and Equity Center, during the week of December 13, from 9am-5pm. Registration required. Deadline extended to December 9. AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Spring scholarships The Red Barn Alumni Association and Torchbearer Endowment scholarships are available for the 2022 Spring Semester. The available scholarships are: Florence M. Strickler Endowment Scholarships of $1,700 (2 Awarded) Dennis C. Golden Torchbearer Endowment of $500 Essie Jenkins Torchbearer Endowment of $500 Bridgette Pregliasco Torchbearer Endowment of $500 Please apply through Engage at: louisville.edu/studentaffairs/scholarships The deadline for applications is 5:00 PM on December 6, 2021. WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS Cricket Club in the SRC The Cricket Club meets in the SRC MAC Court on Friday afternoons from 3–7pm. Cricket is an incredibly popular sport worldwide and already has a strong following on our campus. No experience required, open and welcome to all. louisville.edu/intramurals/sports-clubs Intramural Sports Bowl Pick Em Contest Intramural Sports will be having a college football Bowl Pick Em contest. The contest will be completely online. Keep an eye on our website for more details once the bowl schedule is announced. louisville.edu/intramurals JOB OPPORTUNITIES Resident Assistant Are you interested in helping others, building community, and creating a positive on campus experience? Apply to be a Resident Assistant today. Applications are open now until 8am, Jan. 14 for the 2022-23 academic year. Past RA’s have said the skills they learned as an RA are valued by employers. louisville.joinhandshake.com/jobs/5571699 ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I would like to file a complaint with UofL. How do I formally do that? A. To file a complaint, please visit https://louisville.edu/dos/help/student-complaint-procedure. The Dean of Students Office assists with the University’s formal complaint process, logs the concerns, and connects you with the appropriate person on campus to address your complaint. DID YOU KNOW? The Student Government Association is your voice at UofL. Be active and keep up with what's going on here. www.uoflsga.org CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe