Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Dean of Students Navigation Home Students Code of Student Conduct Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities ConcernCenter Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Kognito Training Recognized Student Organizations Student Awards Student Government Association Student Policies and Procedures StudentsStudents Dropdown Toggle Code of Student Conduct Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities ConcernCenter Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Kognito Training Recognized Student Organizations Student Awards Student Government Association Student Policies and Procedures Faculty and Staff Absence Notification Classroom Disruption Policy Compassionate Withdrawal Policy Harold Adams Award Helping Students in Distress Kognito Training QPR Training Response Guide for Difficult Student Situations Student Care Team Faculty and StaffFaculty and Staff Dropdown Toggle Absence Notification Classroom Disruption Policy Compassionate Withdrawal Policy Harold Adams Award Helping Students in Distress Kognito Training QPR Training Response Guide for Difficult Student Situations Student Care Team Campus Resources Community Policies Persona Non Grata Speech and Distribution of Literature Community PoliciesCommunity Policies Dropdown Toggle Persona Non Grata Speech and Distribution of Literature How to Get Help Absence Notification Anonymous Reporting Form Community Resources Compassionate Withdrawal Policy ConcernCenter Disciplinary (Conduct) Records Check Report a Safety or Hazard Concern Reporting a Student Concern Student Advocate Student Complaint Procedure Student Emergency Fund Student Grievance Student Sexual Misconduct Policy How to Get HelpHow to Get Help Dropdown Toggle Absence Notification Anonymous Reporting Form Community Resources Compassionate Withdrawal Policy ConcernCenter Disciplinary (Conduct) Records Check Report a Safety or Hazard Concern Reporting a Student Concern Student Advocate Student Complaint Procedure Student Emergency Fund Student Grievance Student Sexual Misconduct Policy About Us Organizational Chart Staff Directory About UsAbout Us Dropdown Toggle Organizational Chart Staff Directory Home / How to Get Help / Student Emergency Fund Louis and Louise W. Weisser Bornwasser Student Emergency Fund To assist University of Louisville students who encounter an unforeseen financial emergency or catastrophic event, the Louis and Louise W. Weisser Bornwasser Student Emergency Fund was created. Our goal is to help students during a time of need stay in school and make progress towards a degree. These funds are not intended to be used for routine expenses or as a consistent supplement to a student’s educational funding sources. An event or unforeseeable circumstance must be the cause of the loss of funds in order to be eligible for student emergency funds. Students may apply when they have exhausted all other resources. Students, if awarded, are not required to repay the funding amount. Community Resources: There are a variety of community resources available to assist with food, financial, counseling, utility, digital access, and employment needs. CLICK HERE TO APPLY FOR EMERGENCY STUDENT FUNDS Eligibility for Award Applicants: Should be currently enrolled and in good standing at the University of Louisville during the term when the emergency funds would be applied. Must have a financial hardship resulting from an emergency, accident, or other unplanned event. Must have exhausted all other resources, including Student Financial Aid and found funds are insufficient, unavailable, or not available in a timely manner. Complete all questions in full on the application and submit any supporting documentation. Be able to demonstrate financial need with supporting documents such as medical bills; repair estimates; replacement (of like/age of item) cost; documentary evidence (photographs/videos); or lease agreements. This is not an all-inclusive list. Expenses Generally Covered Include But Are Not Limited To: Medications and others cost related to medical/health care. Safety needs (i.e. - changing a lock). Assistance with replacement of essential personal belongings due to fire, theft, or natural disaster. Travel cost related to death or illness in the immediate family. Assistance with rent, utilities, food, and other essential household expenses. Expenses Generally NOT Covered Include But Are Not Limited To: Tuition, fees, health insurance; and study abroad costs. Non-essential utilities (i.e. cable) or furniture not associated to damage or theft. Parking permits, parking tickets and other fines. Cost for entertainment, recreation, non-emergency travel or other none-essential expenses. Expenses that could be anticipated and other than non-emergency related expenses. Expenses resulting from poor financial management. Award Procedures: Priority will be given to students whose tenure at UofL may be at risk because of unexpected expenses. Students who are in need of emergency financial assistance and submit an on-line application and supporting documentation or submit a paper form and supporting documentation to the Dean of Students Office. Applicants may be required to meet with a staff member to discuss their application. All emergency fund awards will be added to the students University account for disbursement- please note that if you are currently receiving financial aid, receiving funding from the Student Emergency Fund may affect your future financial aid packages. Any unpaid balances on the students university account will be deducted from any monies awarded through the Student Emergency Funding. The number of students who can be served by the Student Emergency Fund is subject to the availability of funds. The fund must be sustained by continual contributions from alumni; parents; faculty; students; staff and friends of the University. The Student Emergency Fund is a University wide initiative and coordinated as a joint venture between the Division of Student Affairs, the Financial Aid Office, and University Advancement. CLICK HERE TO APPLY FOR EMERGENCY STUDENT FUNDS Community Resources: There are a variety of community resources available to assist with food, financial, counseling, utility, digital access, and employment needs. A Department of STUDENT AFFAIRS Dean of Students Office Student Activities Center, Suite W301 2100 South Floyd Street University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Office Hours M-F 9:00am to 5:00 pm Phone tel (502) 852-5787 fax (502) 852-1429 Email dos@louisville.edu Social Media Twitter Flickr Facebook YouTube © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville