Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Louis D. Brandeis School of Law Navigation Home About Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations Admissions How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Diversity & Inclusion Part-Time Schedule Viewbook Admissions FAQ Connect with Us Admitted Students AdmissionsAdmissions Dropdown Toggle How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Diversity & Inclusion Part-Time Schedule Viewbook Admissions FAQ Connect with Us Admitted Students Academics Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars AcademicsAcademics Dropdown Toggle Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars Careers Staff Policies Employment Statistics For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Greenebaum Public Service Program CareersCareers Dropdown Toggle Staff Policies Employment Statistics For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Greenebaum Public Service Program Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Areas of Expertise Staff Directory Faculty Speaker Series Faculty & StaffFaculty & Staff Dropdown Toggle Faculty Directory Areas of Expertise Staff Directory Faculty Speaker Series Alumni & Giving Alumni News Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Give to Brandeis Adjunct/Part-Time Faculty Statement of Interest Request a Transcript Alumni & GivingAlumni & Giving Dropdown Toggle Alumni News Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Give to Brandeis Adjunct/Part-Time Faculty Statement of Interest Request a Transcript Student Experiences Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Student Life Student Organizations and Publications International Opportunities Public Service Student Fellowships Brandeis Mentor Program Externships Student ExperiencesStudent Experiences Dropdown Toggle Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Student Life Student Organizations and Publications International Opportunities Public Service Student Fellowships Brandeis Mentor Program Externships Admissions How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships & Awards Post-9/11 GI Bill Diversity & Inclusion Part-Time Schedule Viewbook Admissions FAQ Connect with Us Admitted Students Home / Admissions / Tuition & Financial Aid Tuition & Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Louisville Law is a state-assisted institution, with tuition and fees set by the Board of Trustees of the University of Louisville and subject to change. Full-time tuition and fee rates are based on enrollment in fifteen credit hours per semester for first-year students and ten or more credit hours per semester for upper-level students. The figures below are subject to change on an annual basis and provided for planning purposes only. Below is the estimated annual cost of attendance for full-time students, based on 2021-2022 tuition and fee rates: Resident Nonresident Tuition (includes University Fees) $23,798 $28,798* Law School Technology Fee $100 $100 Room & Board $11,632 $11,632 Books & Supplies $1,200 $1,200 Travel Expenses $2,370 $2,370 Personal Expenses $7,754 $7,754 Student Loan Fees $200 $200 Total $47,054 $52,054 * The nonresident tuition rate above applies to students first enrolling in Fall 2020 or later. Annual University fees bundled with tuition include the student activity, student building, student services, university facility, student athletics and student health fees. Additional fees not listed include a one-time 1L Orientation fee of $75, an annual student recreation fee of $196 and an annual primary care health fee (PCHF) of $300. The PCHF may be waived with proof of health insurance. University policy generally requires that tuition and fees be paid in full at the beginning of each term on or before the designated due date. Payments and all other matters relating to financial obligations are handled by the University Bursar. Residency For tuition purposes, Kentucky residency status is determined in accordance with University of Louisville policy and 13 KAR 2:045. The law school will make an initial determination of residency based on information provided by the applicant, with the University of Louisville Bursar responsible for the ultimate determination. This determination of residency will be stated in the applicant’s letter of admission. Applicants who are admitted to the JD program as nonresidents and who believe they can validly claim Kentucky residency may contact the Office of Admissions. Appropriate documentation will be requested to support any such claim. According to state regulations, a person who moves to Kentucky for the primary purpose of enrollment at an academic institution is considered a nonresident for tuition purposes. Please be aware that the University of Louisville’s professional schools, including the law school, are not eligible for participation in residency reciprocity for Indiana residents. As such, Indiana residents admitted to the law school, including those enrolled as an undergraduate student at the University of Louisville, will be billed at the nonresident tuition rate. For more information regarding residency determination for admission and tuition purposes, please contact the University Registrar or visit the University’s dedicated Residency website. Financial Aid The availability of financial aid can be a major consideration in planning your educational future, so it is important that you clearly understand the process of obtaining financial aid and your responsibilities with respect thereto. All student financial aid is processed by the University of Louisville’s central Student Financial Aid Office. For more detailed information on financial aid processing, packaging and disbursement, please contact the Student Financial Aid Office at 502.852.5511 or finaid@louisville.edu. Completing the FAFSA The Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is an application you must complete annually in order to qualify for financial education assistance from the government and deferred repayment of such assistance while you remain enrolled. The FAFSA opens on October 1 each year and may be filed using income and tax data from either the current year (i.e., the year in which the application opens) or the previous year. First-time FAFSA applicants should follow the steps below to get started. For more detailed information, please review the University’s Financial Aid: Start-to-Finish online guide. The University of Louisville’s FAFSA school code is 001999. Assemble your tax asset information, including your W-2 and 1040 tax forms. Create an FSA ID if you do not already have one. Your FSA ID will be used to electronically sign your FAFSA. Please note that if you are required to provide parental information on your FAFSA, your parent will need to create an FSA ID as well. Visit the FAFSA website to complete your FAFSA. If eligible, you may import your tax data into your FAFSA by using the IRS Data Retrieval Tool. Once your FAFSA has been processed, you will be sent a Student Aid Report (SAR). If you filed electronically, the SAR will be sent to you via email. If you filed by paper or did not provide an email address, the SAR will be sent to you via USPS. Review the SAR for comments and incorrect information. If accurate, keep the SAR for your records. If you find any errors, you can make corrections to your processed FAFSA online or return the paper SAR with corrections. Check ULink to monitor the status of your financial aid package. Federal Loans Eligible students may borrow up to a total of $20,500 per year from the federal government in Direct Loans, also known as Stafford Loans. You may be familiar with Direct Loans from your time as an undergraduate student, but be aware that for graduate students, all Direct Loans are unsubsidized. While a student does not have to demonstrate need to qualify for a Direct Unsubsidized Loan, all interest is paid by the student, as opposed to being paid by the government while the student is in school or the loans are in deferment. Students may also be eligible to borrow up to the cost of attendance (less any other financial assistance, including Direct Loans) in Direct PLUS Loans, also known as Grad PLUS Loans. A credit check is required, and loans may not be available to students with adverse credit histories. Direct PLUS Loans are automatically awarded to law students who pass the credit check. Because of the comparatively favorable interest rates and terms, many students who have good credit opt for Direct PLUS Loans over private loans. For both Direct Unsubsidized Loans and Direct PLUS Loans, repayment is not required until six months after graduating, leaving school or dropping below half-time enrollment. However, interest starts accruing as soon as the funds are disbursed and continues to accrue throughout the student’s enrollment and the six-month grace period, with unpaid interest added to the loan balance. Interest rates reset for new federal student loans on July 1 each year and are fixed for the life of the loan. Financial Aid Disbursement Most financial aid awards are disbursed to student accounts at the beginning of each semester or upon gaining eligibility during a semester of enrollment. Disbursement of awards is based on compliance with all eligibility requirements, including enrollment status and satisfactory academic progress. Since most awards are based on full-time enrollment, part-time students must complete an enrollment adjustment form prior to the start of classes in order for aid to disburse at the beginning of the term. Enrollment status is established as of the day after the last day to drop and receive a 100% tuition credit, and courses for which a student is on a standby list are not included in the student’s enrolled hours. Disbursed financial aid that exceeds the balance owed to the University is considered excess. Excess financial aid will be delivered to you in accordance with the University’s refund delivery process. For more information on how to establish your preferred refund method, please refer to the University Bursar’s website. Scholarships & Awards Louisville Law offers scholarship funding on the basis of academic merit. Admitted applicants are automatically considered for available merit-based scholarship funding; no separate application is required. While not the only factors considered by the Admissions Committee in allocating scholarship funds, an applicant’s LSAT score and undergraduate GPA will be strongly taken into account. Scholarship decisions are made on a rolling basis. Applications that are complete by our priority application deadline of January 15 are given priority scholarship consideration, and an offer of merit-based scholarship, if any, will accompany an offer of admission. Applications that are not complete as of January 15 but are complete by our regular application deadline of April 15 will be considered for merit-based scholarships to the extent that such funding remains available. For these candidates, further information on the scholarship review process will accompany an offer of admission. Applications that are not complete as of April 15 are not eligible for merit-based scholarship funding. Human Rights Fellowship Louisville Law’s Human Rights Fellowship identifies and distinguishes student leaders prepared to work with the Brandeis Human Rights Advocacy Program (HRAP) throughout all three years of law school. HRAP engages actively with nonprofit organizations and community stakeholders to advance the human rights of immigrants, refugees and other noncitizens with respect to health care, education, access to legal and vocational services and more. Human Rights Fellows work closely with faculty members, community leaders and fellow law students who share a passion for justice and commitment to action. Human Rights Fellows receive annual academic stipends, renewable for each of their three years in the JD program. Students who wish to be considered must apply for the Human Rights Fellowship separately after being admitted to the law school. Application requirements and deadlines will be provided to admitted students by the Assistant Dean for Admissions & Enrollment Management and posted on the Admitted Students portal. External Scholarships The law school itself is not the only potential source of scholarship funding for our students. Many public agencies, charitable organizations and private firms also offer scholarship opportunities to students pursuing a JD, including those already enrolled. These external scholarships each have their own applications, procedures, criteria and deadlines. We encourage prospective and current students alike to explore the list of external scholarships known to us at this time. For additional information about general external scholarship opportunities, please visit the University of Louisville’s Student Financial Aid Office website. Post-9/11 GI Bill Administered by the US Department of Veterans Affairs, the Post-9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2008, also known as the Post-9/11 GI Bill, can help eligible veterans pursue law school education by paying tuition and fees, a monthly housing allowance and a book stipend. All benefits are paid on a sliding scale, depending on the cumulative length of a veteran’s post-9/11 active duty military service: % of Maximum Benefit 90 days of qualifying service 50% 6 months of qualifying service 60% 18 months of qualifying service 70% 24 months of qualifying service 80% 30 months of qualifying service 90% 36 months of qualifying service or more 100% Veterans who received a Purple Heart post-9/11 and were honorably discharged after any amount of service, or who served for at least 30 continuous days post-9/11 and were honorably discharged with a service-connected disability, are also eligible for the full maximum benefit payable. The benefits of the Post-9/11 GI Bill can be transferred to veterans’ spouses (including same-sex spouses) and dependent children (including adopted childen and stepchildren). States must ensure that all public institutions of higher education offering VA-approved programs charge tuition and fees at resident rates to all such covered individuals. Applying for Benefits The VA offers several ways to apply for Post-9/11 GI Bill education assistance and resources to help you understand benefits. Please note that the VA takes an average of thirty (30) days to process education claims. Once your application has been processed, you will receive a Certificate of Eligibility verifying the amount of benefits and months of entitlement available to you. To request the use of your available benefits at the University of Louisville, please contact the Office of Military and Veteran Student Services to discuss next steps. Please note that the University’s VA Certifying Official will need a copy of your Certificate of Eligibility. The University of Louisville requires tuition to be paid at the time of registration. Due to the processing time you may experience with the VA, you cannot rely on your education benefits to cover the initial tuition payment. For more information on alternate payment plans, please contact the University Bursar. The information in this section is subject to change. Any updates to the provisions or benefits of the Post-9/11 GI Bill will be provided on the VA website. For more information on veteran education benefits and resources at the University of Louisville, please contact the Office of Military and Veteran Student Services. Admissions How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Cost of Attendance Financial Aid Scholarships & Awards Post-9/11 GI Bill Diversity & Inclusion Part-Time Schedule Viewbook Admissions FAQ Connect with Us Admitted Students ABA-Apply Now News Honoring the 2022 Law Alumni Award winners May 02, 2022 2021-2022 SBA leaders offer perspectives on roles, future, goals Dec 13, 2021 Lars Smith named interim dean of Louisville Law Jul 29, 2021 Professor Jamie Abrams, School of Dentistry faculty, honored by Blackboard for innovative teaching Jul 20, 2021 The legal significance of Juneteenth Jun 17, 2021 More news… Louis D. Brandeis School of Law University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 Google Map Office Hours M-F, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. No holiday hours Contact tel +1-502-852-6358 fax +1-502-852-7299 Admissions: lawadmissions@louisville.edu General: brandeislaw@louisville.edu Quick Links Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Apply Now Give to Brandeis Law Clinic Intranet Symplicity Job Bank Social Media © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville