[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Master's Degree Programs / Online Master of Engineering in Engineering Management /-/images/pages/meem/2010_MEEM_1596x740.jpg Engineer a new world. meem meem-program-page organic ../../programs/masters/master-of-engineering-in-engineering-management/?tab=apply Miriam Jones Online Enrollment Counselor Online Master of Engineering in Engineering Management The master’s in engineering management online is designed for experienced engineers who want to develop superior skills in managing engineering projects, products and services. UofL’s online engineering management degree builds on your current knowledge and experience to expand the professional opportunities available to you. Gain the credentials and knowledge you need to take charge of complex engineering projects, play an active role in the development of your organization, move into leadership roles and increase your earnings—delivered through accelerated 8-week terms and 100% online courses, giving you the flexibility you need to balance work and life with earning a high-quality engineering education. This online engineering master’s program is offered through the J.B. Speed School of Engineering. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Six Sigma Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid *Rate reflects Active-duty Departmental Award applied after enrollment in online MEEM program. Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Other fees apply. Highlights Skip the test – no GRE or GMAT required for admission. Begin when you’re ready with 6 starts per year (Fall, Spring or Summer admission available). Complete your degree in as little as 1 - 2 years with only 10 required courses and 8-week terms. Gain real world expertise in important engineering areas; courses include project management, human resources management, marketing, law and more. Network with other engineers/working professionals from around the world. Earn a Six Sigma Black Belt certification as part of the program (see Six Sigma tab). Learn from faculty with distinguished academic credentials, industry experience and a strong commitment to applied research. Learn from the comfort of your home and at any time convenient for you with fully online classes. Transfer up to six (6) credit hours from another graduate engineering program at UofL or from an accredited college or institution (subject to department approval). Join one of the best master’s in engineering management online programs. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Do I Qualify? Candidates for the online Engineering Management degree are working professionals with a bachelor’s degree in engineering or related STEM fields. Acceptable degrees in STEM need to have sufficient science and math background. Examples of sufficient science and math include one semesters of calculus and two semesters of science with lab. If you are unsure whether your bachelor’s degree qualifies for admission, please send us your unofficial transcripts for review. 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this degree on your own time through fully online coursework and learning tools. Learn More 30 CREDIT HOURS Take only 10 courses and earn your degree within 1 - 2 years. No thesis required. Learn More 8 WEEK COURSES Focus on one course at the time or move through the program faster. Learn More "Having the Master's in Engineering Management degree has opened opportunities to new jobs that I wouldn’t even be able to apply for if I just had my technical degree." MEREDITH COOKSEY '18 ONLINE MEEM GRADUATE What can I do with an Engineering Management master’s? Approximately 192,500 engineering managers were employed nationwide in 2016, and this occupation will continue to grow in the next decade (bls.gov). UofL’s online engineering management graduates are equipped with the skills necessary to gain higher-paying management positions in areas including: Civil engineering Construction engineering Health care engineering Logistics engineering Distribution engineering Manufacturing engineering Computer and electronic product manufacturing Pharmaceutical and medical manufacturing Transportation equipment manufacturing Biomedical engineering Environmental engineering Aeronautical engineering Chemical and petro-chemical engineering Military engineering Federal, state, and local government For nearly a century, the University of Louisville Speed School has been educating engineers through high-quality undergraduate and graduate degrees. Our students and graduates hold engineering jobs with renowned companies including Ford, UPS, Humana, Yum! Brands, Ethicon, Boenig, Barton Brands, Raytheon Technologies, Lockheed Martin, the U.S. Air Force and Navy, and many more. Join a renowned online engineering program and gain the expertise you need to engineer the future. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August September 15 Fall II October December 1 Spring January February 1 Spring II March April 1 Summer May June 1 Summer June Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete application for admission Submit $65 non-refundable application fee Submit all official transcripts of undergraduate and graduate work from all previous institutions Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Note: Electronic transcripts are only accepted directly from the institution(s). Please have electronic transcripts sent directly to UofL Graduate Admissions Office. Prerequisites to the EM program. Can be completed prior to admission or first semester in the graduate program if not completed in previous degree One semester of Intro to Stats One semester of Calculus I Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree in engineering or related scientific* field from an accredited institution* Minimum undergraduate GPA of 2.75 to be admitted in good standing. Applicants with GPA below the recommended 2.75 may be considered for admission based on additional criteria, including excellent recommendation letters, resume or personal statement, and academic performance in math, science, and engineering courses completed in their bachelor’s degree. Two letters of recommendation Personal statement or resume No GRE required for admission. Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu Applicants not meeting the minimum requirements may still be admitted. Applications are considered on a case-by-case basis. Remedial work may be specified for those applicants who, in the opinion of the faculty, do not have a sufficient background in engineering. * Acceptable degrees in STEM need to have sufficient science and math background. Examples of sufficient science and math include two semesters of calculus and two semesters of science with lab. If you are unsure whether your bachelor’s degree qualifies for admission, please send us your unofficial transcripts for review. International Students – Additional Notes/Requirements The Engineering Management program is open to international students. All international transcripts must be certified as authentic and translated verbatim in English. Students whose primary language is not English must show English language proficiency by attaining one of the following: Total score of 80 or higher on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) Internet- based test or 6.5 or higher on the International English Language Testing System (IELTS), OR Successful completion of the exit examination for the advanced level of the Intensive English as a Second Language Program (IESL) at the University of Louisville, OR Duolingo English test score of 105 or higher Demonstration of a degree award from an acceptable English language institution International students will not be issued a U.S. visa if admitted to the MEEM online program, since there are no campus attendance requirements. Credit Transfer You may transfer up to six credit hours of graduate coursework from an accredited university*, pending department approval. *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. Start Your Application UofL’s online master’s in Engineering Management program requires 10 courses (2 core courses and 8 electives). Candidates for the engineering master’s degree online must have a minimum final cumulative GPA of 3.0 for all graduate courses. Required Courses Courses Hours EM 613 Operations Management* 3 EM 661 Engineering Statistic II* 3 Total 6 Elective Courses Courses Hours EM 525 Project Management 3 EM 615 Management Science 3 EM 620 Safety Management 3 EM 624 Human Resource Management 3 EM 626 Effective Communication 3 EM 627 Information Technology Management 3 EM 628 Engineering Management 3 EM 632 Quality Management 3 EM 645 Decision and Risk Analysis 3 EM 646 Marketing and the Engineer 3 EM 670 Engineering Financial Management 3 EM 672 Management Law for Engineers 3 EM 674 Intellectual Property Law for Engineers 3 EM 676 Effective Leadership 3 EM 684 Process Improve App. I** 1.5 EM 685 Process Improve App. II** 1.5 Total 24 Minimum Total Credit Hours Required 30 *EM 613 and EM 661 are the required beginning courses for all incoming EM students. **Students only enroll in the EM 684 and EM 685 courses in order to complete their Six Sigma project and earn their certification. All course offerings are subject to revision based upon course demand and instructor availability. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Earn your Six Sigma Black Belt certification as an online Engineering Management student! Six Sigma is a process improvement program that helps business and organizations streamline processes by focusing on what matters most to the customer in order to improve output quality, decrease error probability and reduce waste. The Six Sigma “Black Belt” is the official designation for those who have completed the training program and understand Six Sigma process improvement techniques. As an online Engineering Management student, you will have the chance to learn more about this technique, complete a Six Sigma process improvement project and earn your black belt through the Industrial and Systems Engineers (IISE). The certification includes four courses: EM 613 Operations Management EM 661 Engineering Statistics II EM 684 Process Improve App. I EM 685 Process Improve App. II You will complete a black belt project as part of the EM 685 course. The Six Sigma test through the IISE will be taken at the end of the course. Past Six Sigma Projects Completed by Online Engineering Management Students: Streamlining Attendance Sheets Printing and Distribution Process for Payment Services Dept. at Children's Council San Francisco Reduce Civil Estimating Variation and Increase Renewable Market Revenue Reducing Indirect Labor Head Count Ratios to Improve Volume Output Increase Client Retention Related to Patterns of Communication and Organizational Culture Thermal Actuator Pin Surface Roughness Creating a Proactive Process in a Reactive Obsolescence Management Process What sort of engineering roles or positions does the engineering management program prepare me for? UofL’s online master’s degree in engineering prepares you to take on management roles in an engineering organization. The courses cover management topics like operations, finance, marketing and law from the perspective of the engineering project or team. What bachelor’s degrees, other than engineering, are acceptable for admission in the engineering management master’s program? UofL’s engineering management degree program requires a Bachelor of Science degree or its equivalent in engineering or related scientific field. Acceptable degrees may include physics, mathematics, chemistry, biochemistry, and computer sciences. Bachelor's degrees in other fields, such as technology or social sciences degrees, are accepted so long as applicants have taken Calculus I and a statistics course. What rankings do UofL's online graduate engineering programs hold? UofL’s online engineering programs were ranked as top programs in the nation by U.S. News & World Report in 2020. Can I receive credit for graduate courses completed at another institution? Students may request department permission to transfer up to six (6) credit hours from another accredited graduate program. For answers to any other questions you might have, please click the yellow Request Info box. Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses Certification TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link