Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online University Integrity and Compliance Providing independent oversight of the university's compliance programs Navigation Home Integrity and Compliance Office About Us Institutional Compliance Plan Code of Conduct Compliance Reporting Policies & Procedures Directory FAQs Institutional Compliance Awareness Compliance Information Contact Us Integrity and Compliance OfficeIntegrity and Compliance Office Dropdown Toggle About Us Institutional Compliance Plan Code of Conduct Compliance Reporting Policies & Procedures Directory FAQs Institutional Compliance Awareness Compliance Information Contact Us Conflict of Interest Office Privacy Office Information Security Office Training Policy & Procedure Library Contact Org Theme Banner Img The role of University Integrity and Compliance is to provide an infrastructure that facilitates on-going assurance that the institution is complying with internal and external compliance requirements and UofL policies and procedures as the university moves forward to become a premier, nationally recognized, metropolitan research university. Featured Services Compliance Plan Code of Conduct Compliance Reporting Policy & Procedure Library Training The Institutional Compliance Plan document is the compliance plan for the University of Louisville and the University of Louisville Research Foundation, Inc. Download the Institutional Compliance Plan official document in PDF format. View the Code of Conduct page The Code of Conduct (Code) applies to the following members of the University of Louisville (University) community: members of the Board of Trustees; faculty, staff, and administration; any individual employed by the University, using University resources or facilities, or receiving funds administered by the University; any individual not employed by the University but covered under the University of Louisville Health Sciences Center Compliance Plan; and volunteers and other representatives when speaking or acting on behalf of the University. The Board of Trustees is governed by BOT 1.0 Policy Statement, Article 1.1. Ethics Statement. Students taking courses, attending classes, or enrolled in academic programs are governed by the Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities and Code of Student Conduct. Do you have a compliance concern? Have you witnessed activities at the university that are in violation of a law, regulation or institutional policy? If yes, please notify your supervisor or other responsible university official. You may also report your concern by using the University Compliance Hotline: call toll-free 1-877-852-1167 or write your own report and "submit it" directly to the third party vendor. *Reporting options for students Search the "University of Louisville Policy and Procedure Library" for current university-wide administrative policies and associated procedures. Need help with institutional and departmental training courses? Visit our "Training" page. External Media Compliance Hotline News Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics For the latest Ethics and Compliance News, visit the SCCE website. HECA's Compliance Matrix For key federal laws and regulations applicable to colleges and universities, see the HECA’s compliance matrix. The Higher Education Compliance Alliance (HECA) was formed by the National Association of College and University Attorneys (NACUA). When in doubt, point it out. Please help us maintain our ethical excellence! Submit an online report or call 1-877-852-1167 The Compliance Hotline is available 24 hours a day/7 days a week Conflicts of Interest? What conflicts of interest? Mar 23, 2021 Patient Privacy Rights under HIPAA Dec 09, 2020 Statement on Misrepresentation Dec 03, 2020 UofL a Registered DMCA Agent with U.S. Copyright Office Jul 17, 2020 Employee Whistleblower Protection Notice Mar 15, 2018 More news… UNIVERSITY INTEGRITY AND COMPLIANCE University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40208 Office Hours M-F 8:00am to 4:30 pm Holiday Calendar Phone tel (502) 852-8305 fax (502) 852-0665 Email compliance@louisville.edu © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville