No images? Click here July 5, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Get vaccinated now UofL encourages all Cardinals to be fully vaccinated before fall. It has never been easier to get a COVID-19 vaccine in our nation, and it only takes a few minutes. If you have not been vaccinated yet, try one of these convenient resources available right now to you: Text your zip code to 4-3-8-8-2-9 to get a text back with vaccine sites near you. Call the CDC’s COVID-19 Vaccination Hotline, 1-800-232-0233, to receive assistance with finding a vaccination location offering your preferred vaccine type. Visit vaccines.gov to find a location convenient to you. (Visit vacunas.gov for information in Spanish.) Take a selfie and join #LsUpSleevesUp Your voice and actions matter to get all Cardinals, Kentuckians and Americans vaccinated. Help our community rally together this summer by participating in our social media campaign, #LsUpSleevesUp. Here’s what you can do: Post a selfie on your social media page with the reason why you chose to get vaccinated. Include the hashtags #LsUpSleevesUp and #CovidCollegeChallenge in your post. Follow the university’s Facebook, Instagram, TikTok and Twitter channels to keep up with the campaign and to see some of our student, faculty and staff posts. Our Great Place Journey: CARA progress report Now in the final stages of development, the Cardinals Anti-Racism Agenda (CARA) is our unyielding commitment to address systemic racism and build a better world here and beyond. Representatives from throughout UofL’s campuses—faculty, staff, students, trainees (residents and post docs) and administration— make up the taskforce moving the plan forward. Read more about the status of CARA in this UofL News story. 2021-22 parking permits on sale July 1 All UofL parking permits must be replaced no later than Aug. 22. Parking permits are on sale online beginning July 1. Choose “Buy Permit.” Expanded transportation options are also available designed to save money and reduce traffic and pollution. Cards Crew Needs You! Help us welcome new CARDS as a volunteer for Move-In 2021! We are seeking volunteers for August 17-19 as we welcome first-year and second-year residents to campus. All volunteers get a free t-shirt and swag! louisville.edu/housing/movein Proposed Policy on International Travel The university is proposing a revised policy on International Travel. The revised policy has been communicated to various university stakeholders and leadership and will be available for your comments through July 20, 2021. To provide policy feedback, email your comments to policies@louisville.edu. SRC 4th July holiday hours The Student Recreation Center will be closed Monday, July 5 in observance of the 4th of July Holiday. The center will re-open at 9:00 AM Tuesday, July 6. We hope you have a safe and happy holiday. HSC Fitness Center 4th of July holiday closing The HSC Fitness Center will be closed Monday, July 5, in observance of the 4th of July holiday. The center will re-open Tuesday at 6:00 AM. We hope you enjoy a safe and happy holiday. Summer Virtual RSO Fairs The 2021 Summer Virtual RSO Fairs are officially live! Interested students can log into EngageUofL until July 16 to browse through 400+ registered student organizations. Find your group today! Live sessions July 7, 2–4pm and July 16, 10am–12pm. SRC group fitness schedule update The SRC is still offering group fitness classes through August 1. So grab your water bottle and a friend to join you at the SRC for a great workout from our instructors. louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness/src-group-fitness Spikeball has been added This year the Intramural department will be hosting 2 exhibition Spikeball matches. One will be in the fall and one in the spring. Please follow @UL_IMS on twitter to find out more details. imleagues.com/louisville Q. I recently had a death in my family, and I will need to miss a class for the funeral. How should I go about this? A. The Dean of Students’ Office can send out an absence notification to your professor(s) with appropriate documentation. The notification is just that, a notification, as DOS cannot dictate the content of an instructor or academic department’s attendance policy for their courses. However, we hope that the notification will allow for your faculty to work with you on your absence. For more info, visit https://louisville.edu/dos/facultystaff/absence-notification. Campus maps are available online at http://louisville.edu/about/campuses.html and there is a UofL Events Calendar at http://Louisville.edu/events. CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe