Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ Programs & Degrees/ D.M.D. Program/ Admissions Navigation D.M.D. Program Admissions Timeline & Application Interview Enrollment Advising & Visits Tuition & Aid Early Admission to Dentistry (ULEAD) Program International Students Advanced Standing for Internationally Trained Dentists Transfer Students Computing Requirements FAQs Contact Admission Criteria The ULSD Admissions Committee is charged with selecting applicants who demonstrate the academic, cultural, social and personal abilities to become competent general dentists. The committee uses an Admissions Index system. Selection criteria are divided into academic (60%) and non-academic (40%) components. Academic Prerequisites Applicants must have completed at least 60 undergraduate semester hours before applying (90 by matriculation) and most will have earned a bachelor’s degree prior to enrolling in dental school. Admission is competitive and preference is given to individuals with bachelor’s degrees. Students enter dental school with majors as wide-ranging as biology, business, chemistry, English, engineering and the social sciences. Students need 60 or more college credit hours from four-year institutions. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have amended our admissions policy to accept Pass/Fail (rather than letter or numerical) grades for the Spring 2020 term. Letter or numerical grades will also be accepted per our policy. Required Coursework Biology (16 credit hours minimum - see recommended courses below) General Chemistry w/ labs (8 credit hours minimum) Organic Chemistry w/ labs (8 credit hours minimum) - must take Organic Chemistry I and II with labs Physics (3 credit hours) Biochemistry (3 credit hours - in addition to biology requirement) Recommended Coursework Microbiology Upper level human anatomy Upper level physiology Histology Immunology Other upper level human biology courses DAT All applicants are required to take the Dental Admissions Test (DAT), which is administered through the American Dental Association (ADA). DAT scores must be less than 2 years old as of application cycle opening date. Applicants choosing to retake the exam after an application has already been submitted may contact our office to ask that the application be put on hold until new scores are received. Beginning with the 2022-23 cycle, we will no longer accept the Canadian DAT. Nonacademic Factors Altus Suite All applicants are required to complete Altus Suite as part of the application. Altus Suite consists of a two part online assessment of non-cognitive skills and interpersonal characteristics. Altus Suite will complement the other tools that we use for applicant screening. In implementing Altus Suite, we are trying to further enhance fairness and objectivity in our selection process. Applicants must complete Altus Suite prior to application review. To complete Altus Suite visit TakeAltus.com to create an account and complete the following assessments: Casper - 60-90 minute online, open-response situational judgment test (SJT) Snapshot - 10 minute, one-way video interview with standardized questions; Note: Snapshot must be completed no more than 10 days after the applicant's Casper test date Letters of Evaluation Three letters of evaluation or an evaluation from an institution's preprofessional committee are required. All letters must be submitted to AADSAS. It is up to the applicant to determine the letter writers who they feel will provide our committee with the best representation of them as a student and person. Dental Shadowing and Observation Applicants are required to demonstrate, at the time of application, a minimum of 40 hours of dental observation/shadowing in a general dentistry setting. Applicants should consider observing in a variety of general dentistry settings. Minimum Technical Standards Both cognitive and technical skills are required to successfully negotiate the dental school curriculum. With this in mind, applicants must be able to meet the minimum technical standards for admission and matriculation with or without accommodation. The University of Louisville School of Dentistry gives equal opportunity without regard to race, color, creed or religion, sex, national origin, age, physical or mental handicaps or disabilities, military status, sexual orientation, marital status, or other factors, prohibited by law. The university, when requested, provides reasonable accommodations for disabled individuals who provide required documentation. School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville