Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Student Financial Aid Office Navigation Home Financial Aid: Start to Finish Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Financial Aid: Start to FinishFinancial Aid: Start to Finish Dropdown Toggle Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Loans Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment LoansLoans Dropdown Toggle Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment Grants Work Study Scholarships and Other Resources Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments Scholarships and Other ResourcesScholarships and Other Resources Dropdown Toggle Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments State Aid KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change State AidState Aid Dropdown Toggle KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change Tuition Waivers Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Tuition WaiversTuition Waivers Dropdown Toggle Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Verification Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf VerificationVerification Dropdown Toggle Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Satisfactory Academic ProgressSatisfactory Academic Progress Dropdown Toggle Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Summer Financial Aid Competency Based Education—Healthcare Leadership Flex Option Program Consumer Information Net Price Calculator ED Net Price Calculator Net Price CalculatorNet Price Calculator Dropdown Toggle ED Net Price Calculator Other Information Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Other InformationOther Information Dropdown Toggle Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Financial Wellness Contact Us Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Contact UsContact Us Dropdown Toggle Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Reporting Step 1: File the FAFSA Financial Aid: Start to Finish Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) The FAFSA is an annual application used for students seeking federal, state and some institutional financial aid. The FAFSA should be filed each October 1 for the next year. Steps for Applicants: 1. Assemble your tax and income information, such as your W2s and 1040s. 2. Create an FSA ID if you don't already have one. An FSA ID gives you access to Federal Student Aid's online systems and can serve as your legal signature. If you are required to provide parental information on your FAFSA, your parent will also need to create an FSA ID. 3. Go to studentaid.gov to file your FAFSA. Our FAFSA school code is 001999. If eligible to do so, import tax data into your FAFSA by using the IRS Data Retrieval Tool. 4. Once your FAFSA is processed by the U.S. Department of Education, you will be sent a Student Aid Report (SAR), which is a summary of the FAFSA information you submitted. 5. When you receive your SAR, review it carefully to make sure the information is correct and complete, and ensure you keep a copy for your records. If you review your SAR and find a mistake, you will need to correct or update your FAFSA. Once you are awarded aid, please contact our office prior to making any corrections to your FAFSA. Federal Student Aid, an office of the U.S. Department of Education, offers several YouTube videos about the FAFSA application process. We will begin reviewing your FAFSA after it has been processed by the U.S. Department of Education and you are an applicant with the Admission's Office. Starting in November, our office will begin awarding first time freshmen and transfer students. Keep in mind that all communications from the U of L Office of Financial Aid come to your Louisville.edu email. We encourage you to apply for financial aid as early as possible after the FAFSA is made available in order to allow adequate processing time for the upcoming fall term. · A good general overview of the federal student aid programs is available in the U.S. Department of Education’s website at www.studentaid.ed.gov · Start a folder of computer print-outs and mail you have received from schools or the U.S. Department of Education. Special Notes Fall & Spring · The priority date to have a completed file for fall is early July, however due to limited funding for some programs, students are encouraged to apply and complete their financial aid file as soon as possible. A complete financial aid file includes an official processed FAFSA, all requested documents, and notice of any other financial aid resources which are not listed with the Student Financial Aid Office. If you have not been awarded financial aid or your anticipated financial aid does not cover any potential balance you have with the Bursar's Office, you will need to settle your charges prior to the due date established by the Bursar's Office. Methods for settling your account are available on the Bursar's Office website. Spring Only · Prior to having federal aid eligibility evaluated, transfer or newly admitted spring-only students must have a completed financial aid file. Students must also: o Add UofL (school code 001999) to your FAFSA if you previously did not do so. o Be enrolled in classes at UofL. o Have canceled any potential pending financial aid at their prior institutions. Summer · At the University of Louisville, summer is considered a trailer of the preceding academic year. The FAFSA of the preceding academic year will be used to determine your aid eligibility. For example for summer 2021, the 2020-2021 FAFSA is used to determine eligibility. If required, all other verification forms and requested documents must be completed. In addition, in order to request an early review of your summer federal financial aid eligibility, you cannot be waitlisted in any summer course, and you must be currently meeting Satisfactory Academic Progress. · The Early Request for Summer Federal Aid will be made available on your ULINK account soon after summer registration begins. Do not complete the request until you have finalized your summer enrollment. If you submit the form before you finalize your summer enrollment for all summer terms, the evaluation of your federal aid eligibility may be delayed, and if already awarded, your aid may have to be adjusted. · During summer, federal financial assistance is available to eligible applicants who have Federal Pell Grant, Federal TEACH Grant, and/or Federal Direct Subsidized and/or Unsubsidized Loan eligibility remaining for the award year. Graduate and law students will also be evaluated for Federal Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans. Parents of dependent, undergraduate students may also apply for Federal Direct Parent PLUS Loans. For undergraduate students with financial need who meet specific award criteria, a limited amount of Federal Work-Study funds will be made available. · In certain situations, an eligible undergraduate student can receive additional Federal Pell Grant funds (up to 150% percent of his/her scheduled Federal Pell Grant award during an award year; year-round Pell). To be eligible for these additional funds, students must be enrolled at least half-time (six hours). To ensure your Federal Pell Grant eligibility is maximized, if you are a Federal Pell Grant eligible student who will be graduating at the end of the summer or upcoming fall term, please email our office, indicating your anticipated graduation date in the 'Comments' section. · In order to have your Pell Grant eligibility evaluated, you must be enrolled as an eligible undergraduate student and have remaining Pell Grant eligibility. Federal grant eligible students who do not submit the Early Request for Summer Federal Aid will have their Pell Grant eligibility evaluated based on their enrollment as of the day following the last day to add/drop with 100% tuition credit for the last regular summer session (Term III). · To receive federal loan funds and/or Work-Study, you must meet all eligibility criteria and be enrolled at least half-time. During summer for federal financial aid purposes, half-time is defined as six hours for undergraduate students and three hours for graduate/professional students. For additional information on loans, please visit our loan website. The Early Request for Summer Federal Aid must be completed to have your federal loan eligibility evaluated. · To receive federal financial aid, you must meet all eligibility requirements. To receive a federal loan and/or work-study funds, you must be enrolled at least half-time. For federal financial aid purposes, during summer half-time is defined as six hours for undergraduate students and three hours for graduate and law students. The Early Request for Summer Federal Aid must be completed to have your federal loan eligibility evaluated. · If you are a degree-seeking, undergraduate student enrolled at least half-time during summer and you were not awarded Federal Work-Study funds during the spring term but would like to be considered for summer Federal Work-Study, please email our office, indicating your interest in summer Federal Work-Study in the 'Comments' section. Next Step How may we assist you? Email Service A dedicated student and communication service account is monitored by a team equipped to provide assistance to students. Email Financial Aid Service at: finaid@louisville.edu Call Center A dedicated call center is available to assist with all phone inquiries. Call Student Financial Aid at: (502) 852-5511 © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville