No images? Click here April 25, 2022 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Good luck on exams and have a great summer. Finals Fest/Calm Cafe Reading Day, Tuesday, April 26, 11 a.m. – 4 p.m., SAC 116, 117, 118. This ultimate studying experience includes: free snacks, free massage, free tea & coffee, nap zone, quiet study space, stress resilience resources, and Stuff a Plush. Sponsored by Health Promotion and SAB. louisville.edu/healthpromotion Family Friendly Event IMPORTANT INFORMATION Important Meal Plan Deadline Information Reminder to use your remaining meal plan funds before they expire. MEALS: All Meals expire on 5/3/22 at 6 p.m. POINTS: All Points expire on 5/6/22 at 2 p.m. THORNTON DINING DOLLARS (TDD): TACE Dining Hall will close on 4/29/22. TDD can be used at the Ville Grill from 4/30–5/3 at 6 p.m. louisville.edu/cardinalcard/myaccount Build healthy financial habits With help from PNC, the official bank of UofL, learn how to make smart money decisions with a variety of free articles, videos and seminars on PNC’s thought leadership hub, My Finance Academy. Visit pnc.com/myfinanceacademy. ACADEMICS Entrepreneurship in the Music Industry Minor The Entrepreneurship Minor in the Music industry, beginning F'22, adds business skills to enhance careers in the music industry. The 18-hour minor includes 12 hrs/entrepreneurship in the College of Business and 6 hrs/music, coversg topics in creativity, innovation, and venture planning. business.louisville.edu/academics-programs/undergraduate-programs/business-minors/#Entrepreneurship-Minor Master of Science in Health Administration The CAHME-accredited MSHA program develops competent leaders to manage the full range of healthcare organizations and systems including hospitals, health insurance, physician practices, and government healthcare. Offered in both a cohort, evening track and an online executive format track. catalog.louisville.edu/graduate/programs-study/master-science-health-admin WHAT'S HAPPENING Finals Countdown Exam reviews, writing assistance, stress-reducing activities, and of course...free food. UofL’s Finals Countdown has everything you need to relax, rejuvenate, and crush those final exams. Visit reach.louisville.edu/finals for details on all events. Events happening now through April 27. Family Friendly Event Finals Block Party with UofL CoB Join the College of Business Graduate Programs Office on the SAC West Plaza on the last day of classes to enjoy music, play cornhole, eat some yummy FREE food, and learn how you can jump-start your career with an MBA, MSBA, or MAC from UofL. April 25, 10 a.m., SAC West Plaza. events.louisville.edu/event/finals_block_party_with_uofl_college_of_business_graduate_programs#.Yl7P_IXMJso Family Friendly Event Celebration of Excellence in Diversity Join the Graduate School as we celebrate underrepresented graduate students who have completed their master's degree, doctoral degree or reached doctoral candidacy in fall ’21 or spring ’22. Tuesday, May 10, 5 p.m.–8 p.m., Student Activity Center, Room W201. Sign up by May 4 to participate in person. Celebrating LGBTQ+ Graduates The LGBT Center & Pride Alumni Council invites LGBTQ+ graduates and their guests to celebrate Lavender Graduation. Event will include a luncheon; keynote address by poet and LGBTQ+ activist, Marta Miranda-Straub; awards recognition; and presentation of rainbow cords. Tuesday, May 10, 12:00 p.m. Registration required by May 4. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7985075 STUDENT AFFAIRS PODCAST SERIES ConcernCenter Be sure to check out the latest podcast from Student Affairs about UofL ConcernCenter. Check it out here: louisville.edu/student/podcast SERVICE Environmental Conservation Service Trip Get lost in nature and service with us on the Appalachian Trail! This year's Alternative Break Service trip will be May 9–13 in North Carolina & Gatlinburg with a focus on environmental conservation! Cost $125. Interested? Contact kathy.meyer@louisville.edu or fill out this form. SPORTS SRC Group Fitness finals schedule Finals are here! What a better way to destress by coming to one of the SRC Group Fitness Classes. All classes are free and no equipment is needed. louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness/src-group-fitness Cards Gone Country The UofL Baseball team goes head-to-head with the Hilltoppers from Western Kentucky University on Tuesday, April 26 at 6 p.m. Admission is free for the annual “Cards Gone Country” theme game at Jim Patterson Stadium. gocards.com/calendar Family Friendly Event Baseball Weekend Series The UofL Baseball team is taking on Clemson in a series starting Friday, April 29 at 6 p.m. Game 2 is set for Saturday at 1 p.m. with Game 3 to follow on Sunday at 1 p.m. Celebrate “90s Weekend” with themed promotions and giveaways. Admission is free for students. gocards.com/calendar Family Friendly Event Pups at the Ballpark Weekend The UofL Softball team will host Virginia starting Friday, April 29 at 6 p.m. with a dog bandana giveaway. Game 2 on Saturday at 1 p.m. with a t-shirt giveaway, & Game 3 on Sunday at 12 p.m. followed by a post-game autograph session. Admission is free for all humans — and dogs at Ulmer Stadium. Family Friendly Event SRC summer memberships Were you a student this spring, or will be next fall, but not over the summer but want access to the SRC? Summer memberships will go on sale Monday, May 2 for $50. They will be good until the start of the fall semester. Current IDs will be good until Monday, May 16. SUSTAINABILITY Take the SGA Sustainability Graduation Pledge About to graduate?! Congratulations! One last thing before you go: Take the UofL Sustainability Graduation Pledge to make social and environmental responsibility part of your life after UofL! The world can't wait! louisville.edu/sustainability/sustainability-graduation-pledge Lighten your load move-out donation drive Moving out, but can’t take it all? Pass it on. Bins are available in all UofL dorm lobbies for donating: 1. Clothes/shoes/bags/linens to Goodwill; 2. Non-perishable food to the Cardinal Cupboard; and 3. Big Stuff like fans, lamps, rugs, furniture, bins, shelves, etc. to students Moving-in next fall. Tuesday, April 26 11:30 a.m. – 1:30 p.m., Red Barn. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/move-out-lighten-your-load-free-sale Family Friendly Event RESEARCH STUDY Participants needed for research study IRB 18.1259. Healthy e-cigarette/cigarillo users needed for 2 study visits. Visits to last 4 hours, include questions on social history/health/tobacco use; blood/urine collection; other measures. Payment via Swift gift card. 502-215-5872/atrac@louisville.edu. Study Investigator: Rachel Keith Autonomous driving volunteer recruiting Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering is conducting a research study that aims at better serving drivers for the preparedness of future automated vehicles. We cordially invite you as a volunteer to participate in a research study. engineering.louisville.edu/research/centersinstitutes/cti/ ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I heard that UofL has a daycare. What information can you give me? A. The Early Learning Campus is an early childhood development center for children of U of L faculty, staff, and students. For more information about this program, please visit http://louisville.edu/education/elc. DID YOU KNOW? If you need assistance and don't know where to go, contact the Dean of Students office at 502-852-5787 or visit the office at W301 in the SAC. ALSO, look for which campus office can help with your question or need at UofL ConcernCenter: louisville.concerncenter.com CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe