Page Top Give login Help Site Search Search Content: University of Louisville Alumni Home Connect Chapters & Councils Chapters Councils Young Alumni Series #LouisvilleLoudspeakers SOAR SOAR Mentoring Form Mentor Interest Form UofL Bucket List SOAR About Us Louisville Municipal College Alumni Account Log-In My Profile Find Alumni UofL ﻿News Weekly Roundup Events Event Calendar University of Louisville Alumni Awards Previous Years' Alumni Award Winners 2022 Black Alumni Summit Services UofL Email Forwarding UofL Career Center Travel Transcript Request Shop Online Store Rings, Regalia, Diploma Frames Hex Head Art Support UofL About Contact Us Board of Directors UofL Traditions Our Brand Partners Privacy Policy We Are Family And families stay connected. Events Get Connected Your Louisville Alumni office is hard at work creating new engagement opportunities for you to connect with one another and with your alma mater. Connect right where you are with our national alumni chapters Join up with an academic- or affinity-based alumni council Network at one of our events in Louisville or across the country I'm ready! Update Your Info Stay in the know about UofL news, events, and exclusive opportunities by updating your email, address, and personal information! Update your info and email preferences Hear about the exciting things happening at UofL Get discounts and exclusive opportunities only for the alumni family Login & Update! Alumni Shop Shop the Official Louisville Cardinals Store for the latest UofL Alumni gear. Enjoy free shipping on orders over $50! Shop Now Find Alumni The Louisville Alumni Directory is a simple online tool that allows you to search alumni by class year, major, location, and more. Log in to begin your search. Find Alumni Careers The Career Development Center offers help for alumni searching for jobs and opportunities for employers to post positions for hire. More Info Exclusive Alumni Info Text "UofLAlumni" to 51555 now and be the first to receive alumni news, exclusive discounts, event updates, and more. Featured News Honoring Verna Lee Ungvarsky On May 27, University of Louisville Alumni Relations and Raymond A. Kent School of Social Work presented Verna Lee Ungvarsky with adopted alumni status. Read More Alum succeeds with help from KRM For Antonio Abreu Almaguer, pursuing his passion of medicine has become his lifelong mission. With help from KRM and UofL, he has the opportunity to make his mission a reality. Read More Other News All News Terrance Williams Q&A Read More Honoring Verna Lee Ungvarsky On May 27, University of Louisville Alumni Relations and Raymond A. Kent School of Social Work presented Verna Lee Ungvarsky with adopted alumni status. Read More Oh, The Places You’ll Go as Cardinal: Elmedina﻿ Brkic '20 Alumni Elmedina Brkic, as a graduate from The University of Louisville, College of Education and Human Development, earned a bachelor's degree in Middle and Secondary Education with a focus in Biology. Currently, Elmedina is continuing her education as a master's student at The University of Jyväskylä in Finland, studying Development, Education, and International Cooperation (DEICO). Read More Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn flickr University of Louisville Alumni 200 E. Brandeis Avenue, Louisville, KY 40208 Email: alumni@louisville.edu Phone: 502-852-6186 Fax: 502-852-6920 Contact Apply Jobs Accessibility Emergency Email Blackboard ULink Privacy Policy Mobile Menu Close Menu Search Content: Connect Chapters & Councils Chapters Councils Young Alumni Series #LouisvilleLoudspeakers SOAR SOAR Mentoring Form Mentor Interest Form UofL Bucket List SOAR About Us Louisville Municipal College Alumni Account Log-In My Profile Find Alumni UofL ﻿News Weekly Roundup Events Event Calendar University of Louisville Alumni Awards Previous Years' Alumni Award Winners 2022 Black Alumni Summit Services UofL Email Forwarding UofL Career Center Travel Transcript Request Shop Online Store Rings, Regalia, Diploma Frames Hex Head Art Support UofL About Contact Us Board of Directors UofL Traditions Our Brand Partners Privacy Policy Give login Help Site Search