[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Certificate in Health Professions Education /-/images/pages/hpe/2010_GC-HPE_1596x740.jpg Magnify your impact on health education. hpe hpe-program-page organic ../../programs/certificate-programs/online-certificate-in-health-professions-education?tab=apply Erin Elrod Online Enrollment Counselor Online Graduate Certificate in Health Professions Education The online Health Professions Education graduate certificate is designed for current or future healthcare practitioners or professionals who plan to serve their respective field as educators. This health professions educator program develops the skills needed to be a more effective academic or clinical educator by providing in-depth knowledge of critical teaching and learning practices such as communication, course design, planning, construction of learning objectives, assessment and evaluation, educational leadership and more. This certificate is ideal for healthcare practitioners, university faculty, graduate students of medicine, dentistry, public health and nursing, as well as other healthcare professionals. The Health Professions Education certificate is offered through a partnership between the College of Education and Human Development and the School of Medicine at the University of Louisville. Overview Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid This certificate qualifies for financial aid. Highlights Become an effective educator, presenter and facilitator through hands-on training opportunities using state-of-the-art instructional technology. Learn how to design curricula that will stimulate critical thinking and clinical reasoning—promoting cooperative, student-centered learning. Develop your educational philosophy and apply pedagogical theory appropriately to your teaching practices. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes and 24/7 access to learning tools. Learn from world-class faculty who have extensive experience in the field. Move through your coursework quicker with accelerated 8-week terms. Get a jump start on your master’s degree—100% of credits earned in the certificate program apply to completion of your UofL Master's in Health Professions Education, also offered online (you must apply separately to the M.S. in HPE program). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this program on your own time through fully online classes. 1 YEAR TO COMPLETE This certificate consists of only 12 credit hours and can be completed in as little as 1 year. Learn More 8 WEEK TERMS Move through your coursework in an accelerated format. Learn More Outcomes Job opportunities for professionals earning this certificate may include: clinical educator, healthcare education researcher, clerkship director, residency director, academic faculty, in-house trainer, as well as continuing education instructor in the clinical healthcare field (i.e. medical, dental, nursing, pharmacy, physical therapy, etc.). Credit hours acquired in this certificate can be applied towards UofL’s online Master of Science in Health Professions Education. You must apply separately to the M.S. in HPE program. Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date July 1 Fall I August October 1 Fall II October December 1 Spring January Steps to Apply Complete the graduate application for admission $40 non-refundable application fee Submit official college transcripts from all previous institutions Check for Scholarships Note: Electronic transcripts are only accepted directly from the institution(s). Please have electronic transcripts sent to gradadm@louisville.edu. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements A graduate degree recommended, or proof of working towards a graduate degree required Applicants with a bachelor’s degree and additional credentials may be considered on a case-by-case basis Minimum undergraduate GPA of 2.5 to be admitted in good standing (applicants with a lower GPA may inquire about conditional admission) Current CV The online Graduate Certificate in Health Professions Education is a 12-credit hour program. All courses are delivered online over 8-week terms. Fall Semester Hours LEAD 665 Foundations of Health Professions Education 3 LEAD 675 Teaching & Learning in Health Professions Education 3 LEAD 676 Instructional Strategies in Health Professions Education 3 LEAD 685 Evidence-based Practice in Health Professions Education 3 Total Required Credit Hours 12 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Is the GRE required for admission? No, the GRE is not required to be admitted to this program. Is there a part-time option? Yes, you can complete the program as a part-time student. Is the program open to international students? Yes, this program is available to international students. Are there any additional fees other than tuition? No, there are no additional fees. However, you will need to purchase your textbooks according to your coursework. Does my B.S. have to be in anything specific? No, your B.S. does not have to be in a specific field, as long as you are currently working in a healthcare industry. Do I have to take the courses in a certain order? No, the capstone requirement must be completed last, but the others may be completed in any order. Do I need to have teaching experience to be accepted into the program? No, you are not required to have any teaching experience to be accepted into this program. I have some credit hours from another program/university. Can the credit be transferred? No, we do not accept transfer credit towards this program. What medical fields is this for? This certificate is applicable to any health profession that has a clinical component to teaching: teaching is conducted by a faculty member who is providing both patient care and education to the learner. Past participants of this program have been health professions educators from medicine, nursing, dentistry and public health but this list is not exhaustive. Who can apply for the Certificate in Health Professions Education Program? The Certificate in Health Professions Education Program is aimed primarily at healthcare professionals who are currently educators in a healthcare environment and would like to become better educators. The Certificate program is especially beneficial for physicians, dentists, nurses, researchers, dental hygienists, and others interested in teaching, education, and training careers. What is the estimated cost of the program? For information about tuition/fees, please visit the Bursar's Office website and go to their tuition/fees page. https://louisville.edu/bursar/tuitionfee Tuition remission is available to all full-time and most part-time University of Louisville employees. Books and/or other course materials must be purchased by participants. When and where are the Certificate courses held? Courses for the online Graduate Certificate in Health Professions Education are delivered online through the Blackboard Learning Management System. How long does it take to complete Certificate in Health Professions Education Program? The Certificate can be earned in one year. The program consists of four graduate-level courses, two courses are taught each semester over a one-year cycle. The certificate includes a total of 12 hours of academic course credit. Is the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) required? If you have a terminal degree, (e.g., M.D., D.D.S., Ph.D.) you do not need to take the GRE. Does the Certificate in Health Professions Education program follow the University of Louisville calendar? Yes, the courses in the Health Professions Education program follow the University of Louisville Belknap semester schedule. How do I apply for admission? Applications must meet the standards of general admission to the University's Graduate School. Please follow the admission information to apply to the graduate school. http://louisville.edu/graduate/futurestudents/apply-materials/application Will the courses taken in the certificate program apply to a Master's program at UofL? Yes, the 12 credit hours can be rolled directly into the Master's in Health Professions Education (you must apply separately). If you would like to apply to a master's or doctoral program outside of the College of Education and Human Development, two of the Certificate program courses could be considered as electives, but are subject to the approval of your advisor. Who do I contact for more information? Getting in touch with your enrollment counselor is a great first step! Erin can be reached at online@louisville.edu or 800.871.8635. Overview Admissions Courses TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link