[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Certificate in Biostatistics /-/images/pages/gcbst/2010_GC-BST_1596x740.jpg Real-World Evidence. Data-Driven Solutions. gcbst gcbst-program-page organic ../../programs/certificate-programs/certificate-in-biostatistics?tab=apply Erin Elrod Online Enrollment Counselor Online Certificate in Biostatistics The online Certificate in Biostatistics is perfect for those working with statistical data who want to supplement their skills or are seeking a career transition. Offered by the School of Public Health and Information Sciences at the University of Louisville (UofL), this 5-course (15 credit hour) biostats certificate prepares students to apply fundamental methods for analysis and management of data across various public health industries. Acquire the analytical background and informatics tools you need to meet your professional goals and advance your career in this evolving area. Overview Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid This certificate qualifies for financial aid. Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Highlights Learn how to employ statistical methods such as linear models and categorical data analysis, and use SAS and R software. Gain expertise and highly marketable skills for a rapidly growing field. Learn from world-class faculty with extensive applied experience. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes and 24/7 access. Get a jump start on your master’s degree—100% of credits earned in the certificate program apply to completion of your UofL Master’s in Biostatistics, also offered online (you must apply separately to the M.S. in biostats program). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this program on your own time through fully online classes. Learn More 15 CREDIT HOURS Take only 5 course to earn your certificate. Learn More NO GRE REQUIRED FOR ADMISSION Skip the test! Focus on learning new skills to advance your career. Learn More Biostatistics Program Director Dr. Kulasekera shares details and benefits of earning your online Biostatistics Certificate. Outcomes The Certificate in Biostatistics from UofL prepares students for a wide variety of career paths in quantitative data analysis. They can choose to pursue biostats jobs within: Healthcare systems Pharmaceutical corporations Insurers, consulting services Medical centers, research centers Government agencies (FDA, NIH, Census Bureau) Universities and research institutions Hospitals and cancer centers Businesses and financiers Biotech corporations Product development companies Application Deadline Term Start April 1 (International) Summer May April 15 Summer May July 1 (International) Fall August July 25 Fall August Note: Any application completed after the deadline is considered for admission for the next admission term. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Only students interested in eventually pursuing the MS in Biostatistics should seek Summer admission. No Certificate courses are offered in the Summer term, only our Math Tools remedial calculus courses. Steps to Apply Completed graduate application Submit $40 non-refundable application fee Submit 2 letters of recommendation, written within the past 12 months Submit official transcripts of all undergraduate and graduate work from regionally-accredited institutions – have transcripts sent directly to UofL. Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree earned from an accredited institution* Elementary-level statistics coursework and exposure to a scientific environment, academically or professionally Minimum GPA of 2.75 Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. International Applicants If you live outside of the United States and intend to complete an online academic program from your home country, be sure to review these additional requirements for international students. Postsecondary transcripts. Transcripts from institutions not in English will require a foreign credential evaluation. Students whose primary language is not English must show English language proficiency by attaining one of the following: TOEFL score at or above 550 (paper based test and a 5.0 on the TWE test), 213 (computer based test), 79 (internet based test), OR Submitting an IELTS test score of 6.5 or higher, OR Duolingo English test score of 105 or higher Submitting an EFCMG (Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates) certification, OR Successful completion of the exit examination for the advanced level of the Intensive English as a Second Language Program (IESL) at the University of Louisville, OR Demonstration of a degree award from an acceptable English language institution, as formally documented by an appropriate institutional official For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. Start Your Application The online Biostats certificate at UofL is a 15-16 credit hour program that requires 12 credit hours in core courses and 3-4 credit hours in electives (depending on the chosen courses). Course Title Hours PHST 680 Biostatistical Methods I 3 PHST 681 Biostatistical Methods II 3 PHST 620 Introduction to Statistical Computing (SAS) 3 PHST 684 Categorical Data Analysis 3 Electives* 3-4 Total 15-16 *Electives can be either PHST 624 Clinical Trials I (2 Hours) and PHST 625 Clinical Trials II (2 hours) or PHST 640 Statistical Methods for Research Design in Health Sciences (3 hours). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Your Success Team Overview Admissions Courses TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link