 Marketing Theme Home Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online University Parking & Transportation Services Navigation Home Rules & Regulations Parking Rules & Regs Rules & Regulations Parking Rules & Regs Parking Info Loading Zones Accessible Parking Motorist Assistance Parking Committees Severe Weather Procedures Vehicle Safety How to Avoid Parking Tickets 2022-23 Parking Permit Prices Campus Map Scratch-Off Parking Permits Parking Info Loading Zones Accessible Parking Motorist Assistance Parking Committees Severe Weather Procedures Vehicle Safety How to Avoid Parking Tickets 2022-23 Parking Permit Prices Campus Map Scratch-Off Parking Permits Commute Green Bicycle Registration/Information Bike Rack and Repair Locations Carpool No Idle Policy EV Charging LouVelo citywide bikeshare 01445044.jpg GE_EVWN3.jpg Commute Green Bicycle Registration/Information Bike Rack and Repair Locations Carpool No Idle Policy EV Charging LouVelo citywide bikeshare 01445044.jpg GE_EVWN3.jpg Transportation Belknap Campus Shuttle Service (TARC #94) TARC Cardinal Connections Yum Center TARC Map Campus Map Transportation Belknap Campus Shuttle Service (TARC #94) TARC Cardinal Connections Yum Center TARC Map Campus Map Forms Loading Zone (WORD) Student Application (PDF) Bicycle Registration Parking Suggestions, Ideas, or Questions Customer Service Questionnaire Accessible Parking Application Expectant Mothers Handicap Parking Application (Word) New Employee Orientation Permit Form Accessible Parking Online Form AccessibleApplication.doc Forms Loading Zone (WORD) Student Application (PDF) Bicycle Registration Parking Suggestions, Ideas, or Questions Customer Service Questionnaire Accessible Parking Application Expectant Mothers Handicap Parking Application (Word) New Employee Orientation Permit Form Accessible Parking Online Form AccessibleApplication.doc FAQs About Staff About Staff Campus Maps Visitor Parking Maps Visitor Parking Map Campus Parking Map 2022-23 Campus Maps Visitor Parking Maps Visitor Parking Map Campus Parking Map 2022-23 Beta Theta Pi House BUY PERMIT PAY CITATION APPEAL CITATION STUDENTS EMPLOYEES VISITORS SPECIAL EVENTS Home / Commute Green / Carpool Carpool @ U of L Why drive alone when you can share the ride with friends and neighbors? Many people near you are also headed to UofL, so consider the advantages of carpooling. You'll save money, reduce pollution, ease traffic congestion, build community, and reduce parking problems for everyone! Discover all of your options with our free Cardinal Directions trip-planning and carpool-matching service. Whether you want to carpool for your daily commute, a few times a week, or just for a one-time trip, Cardinal Directions is the easiest way to connect. You can also use Cardinal Directions to coordinate carpools to events such as conferences, concerts, parties, sporting events, etc. Quickly set-up a profile for free by Registering here. Then you can post your ride offers or needs and Cardinal Directions will help connect you. Log Your Trips on the Cardinal Directions Dashboard to be eligible for incentive programs throughout the year and to keep track of your miles, money saved, calories burned, and carbon dioxide emissions avoided! UofL Parking offers special carpool parking permits (applicable to any color permit at no extra cost). Just contact us at Carpool@louisville.edu Not only can the permit cost be easily split by the members of the carpool (via payroll deduction for employees), but since we know there may be occasions when members of the carpool will have to drive in separately, UofL's carpool permits come with 8 daily parking passes per semester for all members of the carpool. Employees who wish to expand their carpooling options beyond the UofL community can register with Every Commute Counts, a regional service for setting-up Vanpools, Carpools, and even Bikepools with your neighbors throughout Kentuckiana. They also administer the free Emergency Ride Home program for anyone who regularly bikes, buses, carpools, or vanpools and registers with Every Commute Counts.. Even if you and three other potential carpoolers don't have access to your own reliable vehicle, you can still share the ride through Commute by Enterprise. The University of Louisville carpooling program strongly supports efforts to reduce traffic congestion and curb pollution in the Louisville area as part of UofL’s Climate Action Plan. Carpool members are provided incentives to share the commute with fellow co-workers or students. Members share rides to reduce the costs and burden for everyone. Why carpool? Half price commute! Save on gas, parking, and vehicle maintenance. The more people, the lower the costs per person! Shared expenses - Participants save on general wear and tear on their vehicles. Relaxation - Provides time to relax when driving is shared. Riders can get some work done on their way to campus! Reduced Pollutants - The reduction of vehicles on the highways and roads means fewer pollutants are released into the atmosphere. Reduced Congestion - carpooling reduces traffic congestion and reduces cars on campus. Build Community – Meet your neighbors and others on campus. Build new friendships. Reduced permit fees – Only one permit will be required for the carpool. Carpool designated parking spaces. Occasional use permits allow employee carpoolers to receive 8 daily parking passes per semester. Any employee who regularly commutes via carpool (or bike, walking, bus, or vanpool) can register for the free Emergency Ride Home program covering 100% of the cost of an emergency Lyft/Uber/taxi ride home up to 100 miles, four times per year! You can even stop to pick up the kids on the way home. This protects you in the event of an emergency such as illness, family crisis, or unplanned mandatory overtime. Start or join a carpool – it’s easy! Just register for a free account with the Cardinal Directions trip-planning and carpool-matching service! Are you interested in a carpool parking permit? Contact us at Carpool@louisville.edu Guidelines and Eligibility A carpool is 2 or more people (additional riders are welcome and strongly encouraged) All members of the carpool must be employed or enrolled at the University of Louisville (student, faculty, staff, etc.) A parking permit must be purchased. The cost can be split via payroll deduction by the members of the carpool. The permit fee is based on the permit color. A decal will be affixed to the permit to identify a carpool. Carpoolers must park in a color-coded lot that is associated with the cost of the parking permit; in instances where the permit cost is for a reserved lot, the carpool vehicle must use the assigned parking space. Only one University parking permit is issued per carpool, and only one of the registered vehicles may be parked in a carpool space at any time. Motorcycles, motor scooters, and mopeds are excluded from the carpool program. Carpool parking spaces will be added as needed, to accommodate new carpool groups. Carpool spaces will be located in high-demand areas around campus. All members of the carpool must sign the application and agreement. Each carpool vehicle will need to be registered with University Parking. All members of the carpool will need to appear in person at University Parking to register the carpool. If a carpool disbands, the carpool permit must be returned to University Parking. It is important to note that a daily parking permit may not be used in a carpool designated parking space. Carpool members decide how to share the driving, cost of permit, schedule, etc. Occasional Use permits expire in September and March, with no carryover of unused parking. An Occasional Use permit cannot be sold or given away and are not valid in spaces posted “Carpool Permit” Carpooling FAQs How do I sign up for a carpool permit? You can sign up for the program by contacting us at Carpool@louisville.edu. Do I get assigned to a carpool? Once the carpool inquiry form is completed and submitted, you will be notified of other interested carpoolers in close proximity to your home. It is then the responsibility of the applicants to communicate and establish a carpool. Your information will only be shared with other interested carpoolers within your area. How do I find carpools or offer space in my car for other carpoolers? You can find carpools using UofL's Cardinal Directions trip-planning and carpool-matching service! Register for a free account to post your carpool or communicate with other potential carpoolers. Who decides the driving duties, cost, etc.? The carpoolers must decide between themselves the driving, cost sharing, meeting place, drop off point, smoking, music preference, etc. It is strongly suggested that perspective carpoolers meet in advance and discuss all these options. How is it decided which carpool member purchases the parking permit for the carpool? All members of the carpool would come to University Parking together to purchase the permit. The cost of the permit would then be split between the members. All vehicles of the carpool members will be placed on the permit. One member will be designated the primary contact. Is carpooling only for faculty and staff? No, students are encouraged to carpool also. The student’s status determines the cost and color code of the parking permit. What is the cost of the carpool permit? There is no extra cost for those who choose to carpool. The permit cost is based on the color of the permit purchased collectively by members of the carpool. How will Parking know that it is carpool? University Parking will issue decals to be affixed to permits to all registered carpools. What if I'm in a carpool and have an emergency or other situation that means I cannot use the carpool? UofL offers a wide variety of other affordable, convenient ways to get to/from campus! Discover all of your sustainable UofL Transportation Alternatives, and explore your options with UofL's free Cardinal Directions trip-planning service! In a worst-case scenario, employees who have registered their commute in advance with Every Commute Counts can always use the free Emergency Ride Home program covering 100% of the cost of an emergency Lyft/Uber/taxi ride home up to 100 miles, four times per year! You can even stop to pick up the kids on the way home. This protects you in the event of an emergency such as illness, family crisis, or unplanned mandatory overtime. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville