[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Master's Degree Programs / Online Master of Science in Electrical Engineering /-/images/pages/msee/MSEE_Header.jpg Take charge of your career. msee msee-program-page organic ../../programs/masters/online-master-of-science-in-electrical-engineering/msee?tab=apply Erin Elord Online Enrollment Counselor Online Master of Science in Electrical Engineering The online Master of Science in Electrical Engineering is designed for engineering professionals with some field experience who are looking to advance their careers with in-depth, focused expertise in electrical engineering. UofL’s online MS in Electrical Engineering offers a broad knowledge-base that will help build your understanding across a multitude of engineering disciplines while providing specialized education in electrical engineering. This 100% online program will empower you to develop your professional knowledge and open career opportunities across multiple industries. The Master of Science in Electrical Engineering is offered by the J.B. Speed School of Engineering at the University of Louisville. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Highlights Develop a broad industry-level knowledge foundation and specialized expertise to advance your career in a sector with increasing growth potential (bls.gov projects a job growth of 7% nationwide through 2029). Skip the GRE/GMAT—not required for admission. Enrich your practical experience with theoretical knowledge combined with hands-on labs. Take advantage of a fully online program—designed to fit your life with 24/7 access to classes and coursework completed when it’s right for you. Learn from faculty with distinguished academic credentials, industry experience and a strong commitment to applied research. Pay the same affordable tuition as traditional in-state students no matter where you are around the globe. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES With UofL Online, you can complete this degree on your own time through fully online coursework. Learn More 10 COURSES Complete the program in just 10 courses (30 credit hours). Learn More SKIP THE GRE/GMAT The GRE/GMAT is not required for admission to the MS in Electrical Engineering program. "Once a young professional gets a few years of experience in the industry they often find that they want a more in-depth understanding of their area. We designed this program to provide them with the expertise they seek in a convenient online format that allows them to continue working while they earn their master’s." Michael McIntyre, PhD Program Director What can I do with a master’s in electrical engineering? Completing a master’s degree can vastly improve your employment outlook and earning potential. The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS.gov) reports that employment is projected to grow 7% from 2019 to 2029—with a projected 20,400 new jobs created across the nation. Some of the positions open to graduates of the master’s in electrical engineering program may include but are not limited to: Senior Electrical Engineer Senior Circuits Engineer Senior Design Engineer Senior Electrical Controls Engineer Senior Electrical Design Engineer Senior Electrical Project Engineer Senior Instrumentation and Electrical Reliability Engineer (I&E; Reliability Engineer) Senior Power Systems Engineer Senior Project Engineer Senior Test Engineer What is the expected salary with a master’s in electrical engineering? According to BLS, the average annual wage for electrical and electronic engineers was $103,390 in May 2020. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August November 15 Spring January April 1 Summer May Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete the graduate application $65 non-refundable application fee Official transcript(s) for all previous post-secondary coursework Note: All transcripts not in English must be certified as authentic and translated verbatim into English Note: Electronic transcripts are only accepted directly from the institution(s). Please have electronic transcripts sent to gradadm@louisville.edu. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements A bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering or a related field preferred (applicants with degrees in other science areas—chemistry, physics, etc.—may need to complete undergraduate prerequisites before applying to the master's program) Minimum undergraduate GPA of 3.0 (on a 4.0 scale) to be admitted in good standing (applicants with a lower GPA may obtain conditional admission) 2 letters of recommendation *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. No GRE/GMAT required for admission. International Students If you live outside of the United States and intend to complete an online academic program from your home country, be sure to view special requirements for international students. Online students do not qualify for a United States visa. TThe online MSEE is a 30-credit hour (10 course) program with course options that allow you to pursue your interests in areas like Computer Design (ECE 510), Microfabrication (ECE 543), Integrated Circuit Design (ECE 533), Digital Signal Processing (DSP, ECE 520), Embedded Control (ECE 500 and 600), and more. Course Requirements Credit Hours ECE Electives 1,2 15 Technical Electives 1,2 9 Additional Required Hours in Major 6 Minimum Total Credit Hours Required 30 The MSEE must be completed with a 3.00 GPA or better for all graduate courses used to satisfy degree requirements. Additionally, the MSEE degree must be completed with a 3.00 GPA or better for all academic work attempted in graduate studies. 1 Electives must be chosen so that at least one-half of the credits counted toward the degree, exclusive of thesis, are 600-level; at least fifteen (15) credit hours of coursework must be in ECE. 2 Technical Electives can be ECE or non-ECE courses. Technical Electives must be approved by the department. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Overview Outcomes Admissions COURSES TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link