Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Student Success Center Home Exploratory & Transition Advising Student Success Programs First-Generation Student Programs Student Success Coordinators Meet the Coordinators CardSmart Keys to Success Directions to the BAB Home / Student Success Coordinators Student Success Coordinators The University of Louisville’s Student Success Coordinators are a resource for students that need extra assistance navigating their college experience, overcoming obstacles and completing the path to graduation. We work collaboratively with faculty, advisors and other student services staff to provide guidance and support to students that are experiencing academic, financial or personal difficulties. If there are issues, big or small, impeding a student’s progress toward attaining their college degree, we are here to help. No judgement, no hurdles to jump - just kind and supportive people that are willing to do everything they can to solve problems and make sure a degree is within reach. We provide personalized attention to help students explore and discover who they want to be and to ensure they are equipped with the knowledge and resources to be successful at UofL and beyond. You can learn more about the Coordinators via this video, and find out who your assigned Student Success coordinator is here. When should I reach out for help? Students Faculty and Staff Contact us when: You’re worried about paying a bill You want to make a sustainable financial plan You struggle with academic habits Personal issues affect your grades You're unsure about your major You're not sure how to get more involved on campus You’re struggling to balance work and school There’s a hold on your student account You’re not sure if college is for you anymore You’re frustrated about the registration process You need help thinking through housing options You're thinking about leaving UofL You have problems and are just not sure where to turn We are here to help and will always do what’s in your best interest. We’ll listen without judgment, help you through the rough patches, and come up with a plan to help you explore, discover and become the person you want to be. Still not sure if you should contact a Student Success Coordinator? Here are just a few examples of ways we’ve been able to help our students: After her car was vandalized, “Jane” had to spend money she’d saved for tuition on repairs. Our coordinators were able to secure a small grant to cover the tuition bill so Jane could stay in school without interruption. “Pete” had several health issues and failed all his classes one semester. We helped him file a petition for late withdrawal to have those F grades changed to Ws, which improved Pete’s GPA and made him eligible to receive financial aid again. “Jeffrey” had a learning disability but managed to pass his lower-level classes. As he advanced in his college career, Jeffrey began to struggle with his coursework. We introduced him to a case manager at the Disability Resource Center and provided information on clinics that could provide the documentation Jeffrey needed to get accommodations from his professors. Have your students been frustrated about money, GPAs, registration or something else you felt you weren’t able to help with? Please refer or introduce those students to us for issues big and small. Think of the Student Success Coordinators as a combination of academic advisor, financial aid advisor, student affairs guide and confidant. Refer students to us when: They’re worried about paying a bill They want to make a sustainable financial plan They struggle with academic habits Personal issues are affecting a student’s grades A student is unsure about their major They’re not sure how to get more involved on campus They’re having a tough time balancing work and school There’s a hold on the student’s account A student expresses doubts as to whether college is for them They’re frustrated about the registration process A student needs help thinking through housing options They’re thinking about leaving UofL A student has problems and is just not sure where to turn Student Success Center University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Office Hours M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Phone tel (502) 852-7969 Email succeed@louisville.edu Social Media Twitter Instagram Facebook © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville