Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection RedMed Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection RedMed Plone Menu School of Medicine Homepage Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Facebook Academics About Us Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni & Visitors About Us View Our Mission & Goals Strategic Plan Office of the Dean Accreditation Academic Departments Affiliated Institutes Future Students View All Future Students Information Admissions: School of Medicine Financial Aid: School of Medicine Student Affairs Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Programs & Degrees Distinction Track Program Integrated Programs in Biomedical Sciences (IPIBS) eQuality Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Financial Aid Student Affairs Academic Technology Office Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Distinction Track Program Integrated Programs in Biomedical Sciences (IPIBS) Office of Community Engagement and Diversity Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Faculty Affairs SoM Marketing & Communications Academic Technology Office Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Academic Departments UofL Faculty Mentoring Program and Resources UofL Faculty Handbook UofL Emergency Management Residents & Fellows View All Residents & Fellows Information Residency Programs Fellowships Programs & Degrees School of Medicine Admissions Office of Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies Academic Technology Office Student Affairs Office of the Dean Undergraduate Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Contact us Alumni & Visitors View All Alumni & Visitors Information Giving to the School of Medicine School of Medicine News Releases Continuing Medical Education and Professional Development Office of the Dean Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Fellowships Contact us Research Research Information School of Medicine News Releases Cancer Research Research at the Health Sciences Center Medical Education Research Unit Clinical Trials Open at UofL Clinical Trials Unit Research Laboratories Contact us Patient Care Patient Care Information Pediatric Medicine Cardiovascular Care Ear, Nose, and Throat Eye Care Specialists Family Medicine Geriatric Care Primary Care OBGYN Services Surgery Sports Medicine Find a Physician 502-588-6000 View all services Outreach Community Outreach Information Kentucky Area Health Education Centers (AHEC) SoM Office of Community Engagement and Diversity HSC Office of Diversity and Inclusion Kentucky Cancer Program Clubs and Organizations Free Clinics Depression Center Outreach & Education Giving Home/ Medical Student Affairs/ Student Services/ HSC Counseling Services Navigation Medical Student Affairs Mission Statement Bulletin Student Services Advisory Deans Academic Support Services Career Planning Commencement Fall Honors Convocation Honor and Professionalism Advocacy Council HSC Counseling Services Orientation Week (M1) Senior Honors Convocation Stethoscopes for Students Student Mistreatment Form Student Travel Tutoring Services Visiting Student Elective Program White Coat Ceremony Student Involvement Student Resources Links Contact Us HSC Counseling Services The University of Louisville Campus Health Services Counseling Office offers short-term individual counseling, group counseling, and psychological assessment. Students seek support through counseling for a variety of reasons, including psychological, personal/social, academic, and/or career concerns. If you are experiencing any of these concerns and/or would like to connect with a counselor, please call Campus Health Services at 502-852-6446 to set up an appointment. These services are offered to students in the following schools and programs: School of Medicine School of Dentistry School of Nursing School of Public Health and Informational Sciences Resident Physicians and Dental Fellows IPIBS/Graduate students on the HSC Campus, including post-doctorate students who are not classified as employees under U of L Human Resources. Students in the audiology program and the speech and language pathology program The HSC Counseling Office also provides consultation with faculty and staff regarding student concerns, outreach, training, and advocacy to the University of Louisville community. Important Details: Services are FREE for all University of Louisville HSC students. Access to service is VOLUNTARY. Some administration policies will allow faculty and staff to recommend strongly that a student meet with an HSC counselor or physician, but each student can discuss with a dean's representative his or her choice to refuse the referral. HSC students are allowed to directly contact a psychiatrist without a prior referral from a counselor or therapist. Confidentiality We respect students' privacy, so all communication within the HSC Counseling Office is confidential, with a few exceptions. These exceptions are: when the information relates to clear and imminent danger to an individual, when a state law requires the reporting of information (threats of violence, child abuse or neglect, spouse abuse), and when information is requested by court order. Any disclosure in these situations will be made to an appropriate authority and will be limited to material directly pertinent to the issue involved. Please note that we will not release any information obtained through interviews, counseling sessions, or testing without the written permission of a client. How to Find the HSC Counseling Office: Currently, there is no in-person counseling at the below location. All counseling is being conducted via a virtual platform. Please contact Campus Health at (502) 852-6446 to schedule a telecounseling appointment. The Counseling Office is located in Rooms 219 and 220 in the Tower (or A Building) on the Health Sciences Campus. From HSC Student Health: Turn right after leaving Student Health and walk North along Preston St. When you pass Kornhauser Health Sciences Library on your left, you’ll turn left into the courtyard. From here, there are two entrances into the building. *Entrance Near Kornhauser Health Sciences Library (to the left of the fountain): Once, in the courtyard, you will veer to the left to enter the first floor. Take the elevator of stairs to the 2nd floor. You will then go outside the building and take a left with the view of the tower building in front of you. Enter a set of glass double doors. Follow the hallway (turning right) and follow the the Counseling Office signs (where the star is below). Entrance opposite from Kornhauser Health Sciences Library (to the right of the fountain): Enter a set of glass double doors, and then turn right up the stairs. Once on the 2nd floor, turn left down the hall. Turn at your first left, and then the next right. You’ll see a set of elevators on the right. Go straight and follow the Counseling Office signs down the hall (where the star is below). *Best entrance for accessibility without stairs. . IF YOU ARE EXPERIENCING A LIFE-THREATENING EMERGENCY, please contact the following: Emergency Psychiatric Services (EPS) - 502-562-3120 Caller should identify self as associated with U of L and ask to speak to a clinician.Follow any instructions exactly. 911: Follow any instructions exactly. See https://louisville.edu/counseling/emergencies for further information. **PLEASE BE ADVISED*** Any faculty member who provides psychiatric, psychological counseling or physical health services must have no role in the evaluation and grading of students receiving those services. HSC Counseling and Campus Health Services, and Campus Health Psychiatry Services maintain this standard. For details visit https://netapps.louisville.edu/MECourseCatalog/?id=94 . Tweet Medical Student Affairs A Building; Suite 210 University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 Office Hours M-F 8:30 am to 4:30 pm Phone tel: (502) 852-5192 fax: (502) 852-5871 Email medstuaf@louisville.edu Social Media Facebook Twitter © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville