Arts & Humanities Business Campus & Community Education President Strategic Plan Health Science & Tech Tuesday, May 31, 2022 News Releases Contact Login Email Blackboard ULink UofLNews LOG IN Welcome! Log into your account Forgot your password? Recover your password UofL News Arts & Humanities Arts & Humanities New UofL minor helps music majors adopt an entrepreneurial mindset Arts & Humanities UofL astronomer and team discover most distant megamaser yet found –… Arts & Humanities Breonna Taylor portrait trust distributions result in $1 million gift to… Advancing our Health UofL research and creativity on display at 2022 ACCelerate Festival Arts & Humanities Renowned UofL glass artist has piece added to Smithsonian Business Business & Economy UofL bootcamp graduates new cohort of entrepreneurs and innovators Business & Economy UofL hosts inaugural Black Business Summit to connect with the community Arts & Humanities New UofL minor helps music majors adopt an entrepreneurial mindset Advancing our Health UofL selects second round of projects for COVID-19 tech accelerator Business & Economy UofL alum advocates, educates for Black economic power Campus & Community Campus & Community UofL alum brings physical education back to local elementary school Campus & Community UofL Football announces upgrades to Cardinal Stadium ahead of the season Campus & Community Building the force: ROTC grad, Guardsman achieves goals Advancing our Health UofL to create New Vision of Health Campus for pioneering work… Advancing our Health UofL to create New Vision of Health Campus for pioneering work… Education AllPresidentStrategic Plan Campus & Community UofL alum brings physical education back to local elementary school Campus & Community Building the force: ROTC grad, Guardsman achieves goals Advancing our Health UofL to create New Vision of Health Campus for pioneering work… Campus & Community UofL, Kentucky School for Blind team up for archaeological dig project Health Health & Wellness Nominations open for Trager Institute’s Gold Standard of Optimal Aging Award Advancing our Health UofL to create New Vision of Health Campus for pioneering work… Advancing our Health UofL to create New Vision of Health Campus for pioneering work… Advancing our Health UofL expands program to prepare nurse anesthesia providers for Kentucky communities Advancing our Health UofL Health – Brown Cancer Center celebrates 40 years Science & Tech Education & Leadership UofL teams with Microsoft to explore AI in research Advancing our Health UofL students help Ronald McDonald House patient with 3D-printed leg braces Engineering our Future Economy UofL astrophysics research-backed startup acquired Education & Leadership UofL industry/university research center receives additional funding to focus on electric… Advancing our Health UofL selects second round of projects for COVID-19 tech accelerator Advancing our Health UofL to create New Vision of Health Campus for pioneering work to increase health equity Betty Coffman - May 25, 2022 Campus & Community Building the force: ROTC grad, Guardsman achieves goals Judy Hughes - May 25, 2022 Matt Payne can take pride in several accomplishments celebrated this spring. The summa cum laude graduate became a second lieutenant with the Army ROTC commissioning... Campus & Community UofL, Kentucky School for Blind team up for archaeological dig project Janet Cappiello - May 23, 2022 Students and researchers from the University of Louisville are helping with an archaeological dig at a site of the former segregated school on the... Campus & Community GE’s Kevin Nolan receives honorary doctorate from UofL Chris Wooton - May 24, 2022 As one of the Cardinal Principles, “Noble Purpose” encourages the UofL community to live and work in ways that make a positive difference in... Nominations open for Trager Institute’s Gold Standard of Optimal Aging Award Health & Wellness Betty Coffman - May 27, 2022 Nominations are open for the University of Louisville Trager Institute’s 11th annual Gold Standard of Optimal Aging Awards. “Being a model of optimal aging means... UofL alum brings physical education back to local elementary school Campus & Community Natalie Hewlett - May 27, 2022 Abbas Sattar-Shamsabadi, a two-time graduate of the University of Louisville, is building a health and physical education program from the ground up after Atkinson... UofL Football announces upgrades to Cardinal Stadium ahead of the season Campus & Community UofL Athletics - May 25, 2022 The University of Louisville 's football season is still four months away, but when fans arrive this fall, they will find new enhancements to... UofL expands program to prepare nurse anesthesia providers for Kentucky communities Advancing our Health Julie Heflin - May 24, 2022 Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetists (CRNAs) represent the majority of anesthesia providers in rural counties throughout the United States, and the University of Louisville’s School... UofL alumnus wins Kentucky Oaks with home-bred Secret Oath Campus & Community Betty Coffman - May 23, 2022 Growing up in Frankfort, Robert O. Mitchell never dreamed of owning racehorses. Riding his pony on his grandparents’ farm was as close as the... VIEW MORE Upcoming Events View All Events More UofL Magazine Beyond compare: UofL Magazine readers discover how an anthem came alive Erica Walsh - May 2, 2022 Composing the next Cardinal classic May 2, 2022 Changing the game May 2, 2022 It takes a village May 2, 2022 The Kela network May 2, 2022 Other News News Releases UofL Magazine Internal News Resources Suggest a story Submit an email announcement Submit an event For the Media Policies Accessibility Diversity Emergency Jobs Contact ABOUT US The University of Louisville is a public university in Louisville, Kentucky. It is a member of the Kentucky state university system. For more information, visit Louisville.edu Contact us: ultoday@louisville.edu FOLLOW US