[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Master's Degree Programs / Online Master of Science in Industrial Engineering /-/images/pages/msie/OLWEB2103_MSIE_HeaderB.jpg Lead in engineering msie msie-program-page organic ../../programs/masters/online-master-of-science-in-industrial-engineering/msie?tab=apply Miriam Jones Online Enrollment Counselor Online Master of Science in Industrial Engineering This program is designed for working professionals across a variety of industry backgrounds looking to expand their technical engineering skills, as well as business understanding, and prepare to lead a diverse team—all through convenient, on-your-schedule, online courses. Merit-Based Scholarship Available for Admitted Online MSIE Students The Department of Industrial Engineering offers merit-based scholarships to admitted MSIE online students. Get started now on your application to be considered for next term. UofL’s online M.S. in Industrial Engineering offers a broad range of courses across two focus areas with strong market growth potential: Operations Research & Decision Analytics and Logistics & Supply Chain. Through the program's unique modularized 8-week course format, you’ll experience the flexibility needed to balance earning your master’s degree while working full-time and managing other priorities. Industrial Engineering (IE) is ranked #1 on the list of “10 Fastest Growing Engineering Jobs in the USA until 2028” with an expected job growth of 10% between 2019-2029 (bls.gov). This advanced IE degree can boost your current career in the industry and/or prepare you to move into another industry. Relevant industries include manufacturing, supply chain, automotive, healthcare, defense, entertainment, banking, insurance and more. This online master’s degree is offered through the J. B. Speed School of Engineering at the University of Louisville. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Merit-Based Scholarship Available for Admitted Online MSIE Students Complete your application as soon as possible to be considered. Get started now! Highlights Advance your engineering career in industries such as healthcare, supply chain, manufacturing, automotive, entertainment, banking, insurance and more. Customize your degree to match your career goals: increase your depth of knowledge in one specialized area (by taking 3 or more focused courses) or your breadth of knowledge (taking 1-2 courses in various areas). Enrich your practical experience with theoretical knowledge and state-of-the-art techniques. Take advantage of 100% online classes, with access to coursework anytime, anywhere. Complete the 10 required courses in as quickly as 1.5 – 2 years; all courses are 3 credit hours and taught over 8-week terms. Choose your own pace and take advantage of 6 starting terms each year. Work with the MSIE department to devise a Plan of Study (PoS) that fits your educational needs and meets your prescribed timeframe. Pay the same affordable tuition as traditional in-state students no matter where you are around the globe. Enhance opportunities to advance on the technical management ladder with this degree. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Is UofL’s online MSIE program the right one for you? The online MSIE accepts students with undergraduate degrees in both engineering and non-engineering disciplines. If you have a technical degree or relevant experience, and a passion for Industrial Engineering, our program could be a great fit for you. Review the admission requirements, along with prerequisites, under the Application Tab. 100% ONLINE COURSEWORK Advance your IE knowledge on your own time through fully online coursework. 10 COURSES Complete the program in just 10 courses (30 credit hours). 8 WEEK TERMS Designed to help you balance your work-life-education goals. "The Master of Science of Industrial Engineering at the University of Louisville offers a completely online, highly modularized (8-week terms) and flexible curriculum to advance your career in industrial engineering. We take pride in our personal attention to every single student from program inquiry to admission to advising to career consultation. By leveraging the renowned co-op program at the J.B. Speed School of Engineering that has yielded over 95% job placement rate for undergraduate students, our master's students can also explore enormous networking opportunities. Our faculty and staff are dedicated to high-quality educational experiences that will prepare you to the next step of your career." Dr. Lihui Bai Program Director M.S. in Industrial Engineering An IE degree will allow you to contribute at all levels of product or service innovation, from design inception to delivery to the end user. The depth and breadth of knowledge embedded in this degree will provide a boost to your professional career at a pace convenient to you. You will gain the expertise and skills needed to undertake higher responsibilities in your current role, rise up in your company, and/or pursue a new role in a growing area. UofL MSIE graduates have landed jobs at leading companies such as Tesla, Boeing, Disney, Johnson & Johnson, UPS, and eBay in positions including: Operations engineer/manager Supply chain analyst/consultant Procurement engineer/manager Data scientist Data analyst/manager Revenue management analyst Health systems engineer Process improvement engineer Project manager START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Application Deadline Term Start Date July 1 Fall (Term I) August September 1 Fall (Term II) October December 1 Spring (Term I) January February 1 Spring (Term II) March April 1 Summer (Term I) May May 1 Summer (Term II) June Note: Admissions are on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance, and enroll before the term begins. Although admissions are granted for a specific term up to the day classes start, we recommend you submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete online graduate application Submit $65 non-refundable application fee Submit all official transcripts of undergraduate and graduate work from all previous institutions (Note: Electronic transcripts are only accepted directly from the institution(s). Please have electronic transcripts sent directly to UofL Graduate Admissions Office.) Submit current resume with application Submit two letters of recommendation with application Note: GRE/GMAT is not required for admission to UofL’s online MSIE program. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Students from a diverse educational background are encouraged to apply to the online MSIE program. If you have relevant experience or a passion for Industrial Engineering, our program could be a great fit for you regardless of bachelor's degree field Calculus I or higher required. To find out whether there is a need for remedial work and discuss available options at UofL, consult with director or admissions consultant Bachelor’s degree in any engineering or non-engineering field from an accredited institution Minimum undergraduate GPA of 2.75 to be admitted in good standing Transfer Credits Transfer up to six (6) credit hours from another graduate engineering program at UofL or from an accredited college or institution* (subject to department approval). *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. The online Master of Science in Industrial Engineering is a 30-credit hour program that requires 2 core courses (6 credit hours) and 8 courses in an area of focus or across multiple areas (24 credit hours), including optional thesis or project. For students who choose a focus area, the 8 courses will include at least 3 focus-area courses and other electives. For students who choose a general study, the 8 courses may consist of 1-2 courses in each focus areas with other electives. Students will work with the MSIE Program Director to develop a Plan of Study (PoS) upon admission, which may be revised as student progresses throughout the program. MSIE Core Courses Hours IE 560 Probability and Statistics for Engineers 3 IE 563 Experiment Design in Engineering 3 Total Credit Hours 6 Focus Areas Students may choose to either focus their coursework on one of two specialized areas or to customize their coursework by selecting courses from across all the available options. Focus Area Courses1 Hours Operations Research and Decision Analytics IE 515 Operations Research Methods 3 IE 541 Simulation 3 IE 561 Decision Support System in Excel 3 Logistics and Supply Chain IE 515 Operations Research Methods 3 IE 621 Facility Planning 3 IE 625 Production and Inventory Control 3 Focus Area Course Total Credit 9 Thesis, Project or Course-Only Option [choose 1] Hours Thesis Option IE 690 Master Thesis 6 IE/technical electives2,3 9 Project Option IE 699 Master Project 3 IE/technical electives2,3 12 Course-Only Option IE/Technical elective2,3 15 Thesis/Project/Course Total Credit Hours 15 TOTAL PROGRAM CREDIT HOURS 30 1 Focus area technical advising faculty: LSC: Dr. Lihui Bai ORDA: Dr. Lihui Bai 2 Electives must be chosen so that at least one-half of the credits counted towards the degree are 600-level. 3 At least fifteen (15) credit hours of coursework must be in IE/technical electives. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions My bachelor’s degree is not in engineering. Can I still apply to earn the online industrial engineering degree? Yes. The minimum requirement for admission is a baccalaureate degree or its equivalent from an accredited institution. We welcome applicants with undergraduate degree from diverse background such as business, psychology, political science, mathematics, chemistry, physics, computer science, to name a few. Contact Dr. Lihui Bai (Program Director) for your readiness to join the program. In some cases, remedial work may be required and can be accomplished in advance by taking course(s) either at UofL or at recommended community colleges. For instance, students who do not come from a STEM field will need to have Calculus I class for this program. What are the academic prerequisites recommend in order to be a successful applicant to the online masters in industrial engineering program? Calculus I or higher. Is GRE/GMAT score required? No, you do not need to submit GRE/GMAT scores. I am an international student. Can I apply to the MSIE program? Yes. International students will not be issued a U.S. visa, if admitted to the MSIE online program, since there are no campus attendance requirements. When do I need to send my official transcripts? Official transcripts are required as a part of a complete application, therefore are needed at the time of application for full consideration. Unofficial transcripts, with degree posted, can be accepted until official transcripts are received. Can I transfer graduate courses completed at another institution to UofL’s online masters in industrial engineering program? Yes. Students may request to transfer up to six (6) credit hours from another accredited graduate program. Does the IE department offer financial aid to incoming online MSIE students? Scholarships opportunities may exist for exceptional applicants contingent upon availability of funding. These limited scholarships, designed to partially offset the tuition, are determined on a rolling basis at the time of admission. Official offer letters to individual students will contain details. What are the eligibility requirements and timeline for receiving the Department of Industrial Engineering merit-based scholarship? The merit-based scholarship is designed to partially offset the tuition for classes that a student registers in. Students who wish to apply for scholarship must submit a one-page Statement of Purpose demonstrating qualifications and intent towards the program. Demonstrated strengths will be assessed in a holistic manner with focus on, but not limited to, current work profile and future goals, prior industry experience (internships/co-op, full-time), accomplishments in prior academic work (e.g., undergraduate, certificates), plans for successfully completing the degree, applying knowledge to practice, and advocating for IE professionals. When can I expect to learn the admission decision? You will be informed within four weeks of the Graduate School receiving your complete application. What else do I need to know after being admitted to the online masters in industrial engineering program? Please consider reviewing additional information in the new graduate student handbook and orientation; if your concerns are not addressed, then please contact Dr. Lihui Bai. Essential for New Graduate Students New Online Graduate Student Orientation The set of questions and answers outlined below can help you learn more about our program, delivery method, application and admission process, financial aid options and how to succeed as an online student at UofL. Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link