No images? Click here May 31, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews SRC Memorial Day Closing The SRC will be closed Sunday & Monday, May 30 and 31 in observance of Memorial Day. The SRC will re-open Tuesday at 9:00 a.m. Have a safe Memorial Day. #RememberandHonor HSC Fitness Center Closed Memorial Day The HSC Fitness Center will be closed Monday, May 31 in observance of Memorial Day. The center will re-open Tuesday at 6:00 a.m. We hope you have a safe and happy long weekend and take some time to Remember and Honor. SRC Basketball Courts Open! Intramural Sports is happy to announce the basketball courts have been re-opened. The courts are open 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. weekdays, 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Saturdays and 1:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. Sundays. Volunteer News If you're volunteering this summer, please remember to use the Helper Helper app or website! HelperHelper is where you can find service opportunities in the community and log any volunteer hours you complete. Email helperhelper@uoflelsb.org with any questions. Campus Horticulturist Application The Campus Horticulturist is a volunteer position and is responsible for the care and maintenance of the plants in the biology wing of the Life Sciences building and/or the Plant Room in the Belknap Academic Building. Serviceberry Foraging @ Garden Commons Friday Bring a pail & load up on a sweet secret right under our noses! Serviceberries are a delicious native fruit, similar to blueberries, planted all over campus. Meetup at the Garden Commons (SW corner of Strickler) on Friday, June 4th at noon. uofl.me/UofLgarden Volunteer Sat. - Central Park Improvement Day UofL’s Sustainability Council seeks volunteers for light chores in Central Park on Sat. 6/5, 8:30 a.m.-noon, 4th & Magnolia. Help to get this historic Olmsted Park near campus ready for free summer events. Free coffee & donuts and a BBQ lunch at Visitors Center. Q. What are the summer hours for dining services at UofL? A. There are limited dining services during the summer. For more information on open locations and their hours, visit https://louisville.campusdish.com/. UofL offers a wide range of scholarships, grants, loans and work-study opportunities to help you pay for your education. Go to: http://louisville.edu/admissions/aid CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe