No images? Click here June 14, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Shot At A Million Team Kentucky’s Shot At A Million provides a great incentive to Kentuckians to get their shot of hope: a COVID-19 vaccine! Permanent residents of Kentucky are eligible even if they received the vaccine in a different state. To enter, you must have received at least the first dose of the Pfizer or Moderna COVID-19 vaccines or the one-dose Johnson & Johnson COVID-19 vaccine, and provide the location where you received your vaccination. Entry into the drawing must be completed at shotatamillion.ky.gov. More information at govstatus.egov.com/shot-at-a-million-home SRC Juneteenth schedule In observance of the Juneteenth holiday, June 18, the Student Recreation Center will operate with modified hours of operation. The center will be open from 11:00 AM to 6:00 PM. Juneteenth Lecture Series June 14 Juneteenth: A Long Time Coming Melissa Harris Perry 12p–1:30p | Hybrid / SAC Ballroom Registration: Tiny.cc/jlsmhp June 15 Learning Cafe: Juneteenth—The Cost of Independence The history of what it really means to be free. Lamont Collins 12p–1p | Microsoft Teams Registration: Tiny.cc/jlslc June 16 Happy Hour Virtue Bar & Grill | 103 W Oak St. 5:30p–7:30p June 17 Noir Louisville: Juneteenth Experience Educating and celebrating Juneteenth. 11:30a–1p Registration: Tiny.cc/jlsnl Deadline to RSVP is Monday, June 14 June 21 The Taboo of Race: Color-Blind Racism & the Violent Brain Oliver Rollins, PhD 12p–1p | Microsoft Teams Registration: email dlwhit01@louisville.edu Scott's Gap hike and trash cleanup Saturday, June 26, from 10:00am–1:00pm Location: Scotts Gap Trailhead, 13473 Scotts Gap Rd, Louisville, KY More Information and Email Reilly Brown to sign up. Personal trainers wanted The Student Recreation Center is in need of personal trainers. Please let Kat Halbleib know if you are interested. Fencing Club In the SRC The Fencing Club offers high-level instruction in all disciplines of the sport. Educational sessions are conducted in supervised, structured, and safe conditions. Practices are held on Monday and Wednesday evenings, and Saturday mornings in the SRC. louisville.edu/intramurals/sports-clubs Q. How can I view last year’s annual security and fire safety report? A. The University of Louisville Police Department publishes the annual security report. The 2020 (most recent) report can be found at https://louisville.edu/police/clery-crime-reports When you have questions and can't find the answers, call the Dean of Students Office at 502-852-5787 or visit the office in the SAC on the third floor in Suite W301. CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe