No images? Click here January 3, 2022 As an online student with the flexibility to work and study from anywhere, creating a dedicated workspace may not seem like a necessity. In this video, online students share the impact of their workspaces on their ability to be successful and stay focused. Learn more. Get help with your writing assignments The Virtual Writing Center is a free online service designed to help with any stage of the writing process, from working through the assignment prompt to editing the final draft. Appointment required. Schedule here: louisville.mywconline.com. What should you expect from an online course? You should experience regular and meaningful interactions with your instructor. If you feel your course lacks this, address it with your instructor. If they don’t address your concerns, notify your department chair or the college dean as the next step. Get free tickets to sporting events The Cardinal Card is the official I.D. card for UofL students. Applying for your first card is easy, free, and there are many benefits to having it such as Cardinal Cash purchases, discounts and access to athletic events—including student tickets. Apply now! Become a teacher! MAT Alt Cert info session Join us for an online info session to learn about our Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) Alternative Certification and the route you can take to become a certified teacher. Register at forms.gle/x8iCSGwqvj1Qaqpv6. Cultural Center Scholarships 2022-23 Student may now apply for Cultural Center Scholarships from December 1, 2021 through March 1, 2022. louisville.edu/culturalcenter/scholarships 10-minute playwriting competition The Department of Theatre Arts will host a competition for original student work. For more information about the competition, please email director geoffrey.nelson@louisville.edu Subject: SHORTS Deadline for Submission: January 6 Winners will be staged as part of TA's Mainstage 2021-2022 season. louisville.edu/theatrearts/about/faculty/nelson Did you know? There is an Emergency Fund to help UofL students in need. To apply for assistance, go to: https://cm.maxient.com/reportingform.php?UnivofLouisville&layout_id=4 Online Student Resources Subscribe University of Louisville 2100 S. Floyd St. Student Activities Center, W301 Louisville, KY 40208 You are receiving this email because you are a University of Louisville online student. If you choose to unsubscribe, you agree to no longer receive important UofL news and updates. Unsubscribe