Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ News/ UofL chapter awarded GOLD status at American Dental Education Association 2022 Annual Session UofL chapter awarded GOLD status at American Dental Education Association 2022 Annual Session ULSD is one of only four dental schools in the United States to receive this honor. The University of Louisville student chapter of the American Dental Education Association (ADEA) was awarded GOLD status at the organization’s Annual Session & Exhibition in Philadelphia March 19-22, 2022. UofL was one of only five chapters in the nation to receive this honor, which is the highest designation granted to dental school chapters. This achievement is based on the chapter’s ability to demonstrate leadership, effective and enlightening experiences for the student body, and perseverance in the midst of the ongoing pandemic. The ULSD ADEA chapter hosts a wide range of events such as Integrated National Board Dental Examination (INBDE) information sessions, a “Why I Teach” panel discussion, “Wax n’ Relax” and “Drill n’ Chill.” They also introduced new experiences this year, such as a sponsored Trivia Night, monthly ADEA Advocacy emails and the introduction of a new Diversity Council. Alec McDonald, President of the UofL ADEA chapter, says involvement in the organization allows dental students to make a difference in areas that matter to them. “We offer so many unique council positions, all with their designated mission. Our Councils include the Outreach Council, Academic Enrichment Council, Fundraising Council, Communications Council and the newly introduce Diversity Council.” McDonald says the organization is also a good way to build a support system during dental school. “Having a team surrounding you that's willing to create awesome experiences for yourself and others will help keep you sane, creative, driven and most importantly, supported. We meet regularly and always have a blast together.” During the UofL ADEA chapter’s “Drill and Chill” events, first-year dental students get hands-on help from chapter members to prepare for practical exams. The UofL ADEA chapter held several fundraisers over the past year. One of the most popular was sales of lapel pins celebrating diversity and inclusion. ADEA is one of many active student organizations at the school. Other Registered Student Organizations at ULSD include: Louisville American Student Dental Association (LASDA) – UofL’s chapter of the American Student Dental Association, a national student-run organization. LASDA also serves as the governing body for ULSD students. Student National Dental Association (SNDA) – SNDA’s mission includes increasing the number of minorities in the field of dentistry. American Association for Women in Dentistry (AAWD) – AAWD’s mission is to be the recognized resource for connecting and enriching the lives of women dentists. Hispanic Student Dental Association (HSDA) – HSDA’s mission includes promoting and improving the oral health of Hispanics. More about Registered Student Organizations at ULSD March 28, 2022 School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville