No images? Click here October 25, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews IMPORTANT INFORMATION Hazing and initiation activities The term hazing means any action or situation which recklessly or intentionally endangers mental or physical health; creates an atmosphere of servitude; involves dangerous, demeaning, or ridiculing activities; involves the forced consumption of liquor or drugs; for the purpose of initiation, admission into, affiliation with, or as a condition of continued membership in a group or organization. It is also a violation to allow yourself to be hazed. The express or implied consent of the individual will not be a defense. Apathy or acquienscence in the presence of hazing is a not a neutral act; it is a violation of the Code. louisville.edu/dos/students/studentpoliciesandprocedures/student-handbook/student-handbook/#hazing Drug Free Schools and Communities Amendment Act of 1989 As a requirement of the Federal Drug Free Schools and Communities Amendment Act, the University of Louisville is responsible for compiling and ensuring the distribution and receipt of the university’s policies, sanctions, and resources regarding alcohol and other drug (AOD) use to all students on a yearly basis. Questions about this policy and/or alcohol and other drug use, programs, or interventions should be directed to the Dean of Students Office at dos@louisville.edu or (502) 852-5787. louisville.edu/dos/students/drug-free-schools-and-communities-act ACADEMICS Applied Statistics & Data Science minor A minor in Applied Statistics & Data Science teaches students statistical methods and data science skills that will complement a wide set of majors and further their career opportunities. Students will learn data management, analysis, and reasoning with data. catalog.louisville.edu/undergraduate/minors/applied-statistics-and-data-science-minor Louisville Teacher Residency info session Join us Oct 27 at 4 PM to learn about the Louisville Teacher Residency (LTR) with JCPS, a one-year urban teacher preparation program for individuals with limited to no teaching experience! Register at forms.gle/s1uuv8KAc2TGHNrp6 EVENTS Celebrate student-parents on Oct. 27 Are you a student-parent? or a supporter? Join the Women's Center & the Student Parent Association at its annual Student Parent Visibility Day event. Stop by the Cultural & Equity Center MPR, 120 E. Brandeis between 11am-2pm & network; meet other student-parents; pick up free resources from select vendors. Register by October 23: womenctr@louisville.edu. Women and Climate Change symposium Join UNA Women for our fourth annual symposium. We will explore the connection between gender and climate change, centering on the experiences of women. Hear from experts on the issue and learn what you can do to help. October 27, 5–7 p.m., SAC Multipurpose Room. Online: Microsoft Teams. Doors open at 4:30. In-person registration. or Online Registration. The Secret Garden Come mingle, eat food, and explore the mysterious Urban & Public Affairs garden! There will be free food! Friday, October 29, from 5 p.m. till 7 p.m. Location: Urban & Public Affairs Building, 426 W Bloom St, Louisville, KY 40208. RSVP: louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7482858 Family Friendly Event. CODRE Campus-wide Listening Session November 3, 11:30 to 1:30, Teams. “Student Mentoring by both faculty and staff: benefits and barriers.” Your experiences of being mentored, how mentoring has supported your learning and how we can do a better job of ensuring you feel a sense of belonging. To register click here. COMMUTER & TRANSFER STUDENTS raiseRED stickers at the stadium No tricks, only treats! Calling all Cardinal commuters to stop by the raiseRED table October 27 from 12pm-2pm to get a raiseRED sticker, some candy, and learn more about raiseRED. Stop by as you arrive to campus or as you head home at Cardinal Stadium. Hope to see you there. WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS Sign up for Badminton Doubles The deadline to sign up for Badminton Doubles is Wednesday, Oct. 27 at 4:30 p.m.. Games will take place on the 3rd Floor of the SRC the week of Nov. 1. Sign up on IMLeagues.com/louisville Senior Night at Lynn Stadium Women’s Soccer host Duke this week Thursday at 5 p.m. for Senior Night. Promotions include a collectable poster and a Halloween Costume Contest. See you at Dr. Mark and Cindy Lynn Stadium. Admission is free. Senior Night at Trager Stadium It’s your final chance to see the Field Hockey team at home this week. They host Syracuse Friday at 3 p.m. for Senior Night. Promotions include a magnet and print collectable poster. See you at Trager Stadium. Admission is free. Exhibition Game with Men's Basketball It’s officially basketball season at the KFC Yum! Center. Our Men’s Basketball team host Kentucky State for an exhibition game Friday at 7 p.m. Get your student tickets at gocards.com/studenttickets. Men's Lacrosse Club hosts Butler Sunday The Men's Lacrosse Club will host Butler this Sunday, Oct. 31 at Patrick Henry Hughes Field. First faceoff will be at 1:00 p.m., and admission is free with your UofL ID. Come out and support the LAX Cards as they face the Bulldogs! SUSTAINABILITY Dive into UofL Sustainability Week Mon: Urban & Public Affairs Garden & Greenhouse Workday. Tue: Pop-up Free Store. Wed: Campus Sustainability Day Fair. Thu: Tree Talks Eco-Poetry, Sustainable Transportation Roundtable, Solar-Powered Pancake Party. Fri: Arbor Day workshop and tree plantings at HSC & Garden Commons, The Secret Garden. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/uofl-sustainability-week-oct-25-31-2021 Family Friendly Events. INFORMATION SECURITY Cybersecurity Awareness—protect your data October is National Cybersecurity Awareness Month. This year’s theme is: ‘Do Your Part. Be CyberSmart’. Click here to learn more about Phishing and how to protect your data. Enter your cyberpet photos Who’s more deceptive than a phishing cybercriminal? Your pets! Combine your lovable companions with cybersecurity tag lines for entry and be featured on our ITS October Cybersecurity Awareness month Pet Parade webpage and our ITS Twitter feed. louisville.edu/its/security-projects/cyberpets OTHER NEWS Apply to receive a FREE U.S. Passport It's not too late to join a cohort of 25 students and receive a FREE U.S. passport. Save $145! To be eligible, you must be a current freshman, receive the Federal Pell Grant, and have never applied for a passport before. Find the application on our website. Mind-Body Connection research study Participate in a two-session study (45mins; 45mins) to uncover how mental health affects physical functioning and health risks of young adults, ages 18-39. Participants will receive a $25 gift card. IRB#21.0432. To find out more, email: mbstudy@Louisville.edu ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I need to withdraw from classes, but the withdrawal deadline has passed. What should I do? A. Each college at UofL has a process in which you may petition for a late withdrawal. Speak with your Academic Advisor or contact the Student Advocate at advocate@louisville.edu or (502) 852-5787 to discuss your options and learn about your college’s process. DID YOU KNOW? There is a special food pantry for UofL students, faculty and staff who are in need. The Commonwealth Credit Union Cardinal Cupboard is located in the SAC in room W312 and is open 5 days a week (Monday–Friday) from 9 a.m.–6 p.m. CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe