No images? Click here November 22, 2021 Have a happy Thanksgiving, Cards! To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews IMPORTANT INFORMATION Make sure to end this semester successfully The semester is almost over. You’re facing exams, last papers due, and possibly a move. Looking back, what have you done that has helped you be successful this semester? Do more of that during this crunch time. If you are experiencing distress because of how your semester is ending, there are several resources that might be helpful. If you don’t know where to turn, contact the Dean of Students Office at 852-5787 or dos@louisville.edu. Speak up Are you graduating this semester? Check your UofL email and fill out the Graduating Student Survey (GSS) to tell us about your UofL experience! This important survey helps us improve all that UofL has to offer. Your voice matters. ACADEMICS Winter session registration still open In just 3 weeks, you can: • Take a class you missed while waitlisted • Re-take a course to improve your GPA • Get a jump start on the Spring Semester louisville.edu/wintersession Registration for Spring 2022 ongoing Registration for the Spring 2022 Semester for continuing students began on November 3. Registration/Add/Drop dates, semester deadlines, and other important registration information: louisville.edu/registrar/registration/registration-specific/specific-registration-information. Master of Public Health Getting a Master’s in Public Health can be an introduction for a number of careers with its various concentration options! We offer concentrations in biostatistics, health policy, epidemiology, health behavior and global health. catalog.louisville.edu/graduate/programs-study/master-public-health Louisville Teacher Residency info session Join us online Wednesday, 11/24, at 12 PM to learn about the Louisville Teacher Residency, a 1-year urban teacher preparation program. LTR offers the opportunity to become a certified teacher in just 1 year! Register at tinyurl.com/UofLCEHD. EVENTS A&S Annual Art Show The 14th Annual A&S Art Show is almost here! All artists can come to showcase their work and creativity on November 30, 4 to 7 PM in SAC W118. Food will be catered, and all attendees will get self-care items as they prepare for finals week. All attendees need to RSVP here , and please fill out the artist form linked here if you want your piece shown at the event. World AIDS Day Sip "N" Paint The School of Public Health SGA and the FIAAY research team are hosting an event to celebrate World AIDS Day. The event with consist of a Sip "N" Paint activity followed by a discussion HIV stigma and PrEP. The event takes place Wednesday, December 1 at 5 p.m. If you wish to attend please register on eventbrite www.eventbrite.com/e/world-aids-day-sip-n-paint-tickets-203941774337 Family Friendly Event Miss Black and Old Gold The 30th Annual Miss Black and Old Gold Scholarship Pageant! $800.00 in scholarship awarded. December 2, 2021, Strickler Hall at 7 PM. Tickets. Promo Code: OldGold AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Nominate your Faculty Favorite today Was there a TA, staff, or faculty member that made a difference in your learning this semester? Give them a virtual high five by nominating them for UofL's Faculty Favorite Award. The nomination period is now open. Submit your nominations today. uofl.me/facultyfavorite Cardinal Award Recipients Congratulations to Amalia Gamez Guerra and Eli Cooper as the recipients of the 2022 Cardinal Award. Presentation will be held on February 19, 2022 at the UofL v. Clemson Men's Basketball Game. WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS SRC Thanksgiving hours The Student Recreation Center will close at 11:45 AM on Wednesday, November 24 and will remain closed until 6:30 AM Monday, November 29 in observance of the Thanksgiving holiday. We hope you enjoy a safe and happy Thanksgiving. HSC Fitness Center Thanksgiving hours The HSC Fitness Center will close at 11:45 on Wednesday, November 24 and will remain closed until 6:00 AM Monday, November 29 in observance of the Thanksgiving holiday. We hope you enjoy a safe and happy Thanksgiving. #1 Volleyball Senior Night It’s your last chance to see the No. 1-ranked volleyball team in the nation at L&N Federal Credit Union Arena! The Cardinals host Notre Dame to round out the regular season this Friday at 7 PM. Promotions include a senior poster giveaway, live DJ, and happy hour. Admission is free for all students. Cards vs. Cats The annual Battle of the Bluegrass returns to The Ville as Louisville Football hosts Kentucky for Senior Day this Saturday. Stay tuned for game time updates and get your $15 student tickets now at gocards.com/students. Fencing Club in the SRC The Fencing Club offers high-level instruction in all disciplines of the sport. Educational sessions are conducted in supervised, structured, and safe conditions. Practices are held on Monday and Wednesday evenings, and Saturday mornings in the SRC. louisville.edu/intramurals/sports-clubs Finals Flow Yoga Join Health Promotion for some relaxing Finals Flow Yoga! All levels welcome & mats provided. Drop-ins welcome! Wednesday, December 1 from 12:00-12:45 in SAC W116 &/or virtually on Teams. JOB OPPORTUNITIES Resident Assistant position Are you interested in helping others, building community, and creating a positive on campus experience? Apply to be a Resident Assistant today. Applications are open now until 8 a.m. Jan. 14 for the 2022-23 academic year. Past RA’s have said the skills they learned as an RA are valued by employers. ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I am a veteran. Is there a Veteran’s Office on campus? A. Yes. UofL’s Office of Military and Veteran Student Services’ mission is to smooth the transition from military life to student life by devoting individualized support to veteran students and their families in providing a broad range of services, coordinating with VA, university departments, and other community organizations. For more information, visit their website http://louisville.edu/admissions/apply/transfer/veterans/, call (502) 852-6442, or email veterans@louisville.edu. DID YOU KNOW? The Student Government Association is your voice at UofL. Be active and keep up with what's going on here. www.uoflsga.org CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe