No images? Click here January 31, 2022 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews Virtual Study Abroad Fair Attend the Study Abroad Fair from the comfort of your own bed. Daily 30-minute sessions from 3–6 pm, January 31 through February 3. Find session links on Engage. IMPORTANT INFORMATION Absence Notification Students and instructors are encouraged to deal directly with one another concerning all student absences. However, in the event students find they must be away from classes due to a sudden illness, emergency, or death in the family and are unable to make contact with their instructor(s), they may request an Instructor Notification by contacting the Dean of Students Office (DOS) at 502-852-5787 or dos@louisville.edu. louisville.edu/dos/facultystaff/absence-notification SGA NEWS SGA Elections Packet Open Interested in being a part of the Student Government Association? Join leaders of SGA to learn more about SGA and its upcoming election season. Packets close Friday, February 4, 2022 at 5PM. For any questions, contact sgacourt@louisville.edu or visit www.uoflsga.com/elections ACADEMICS Public Health Preview Day Plan to attend the virtual Public Health Preview Day on February 26, 9 a.m.–2 p.m. to learn about the various study options and career opportunities in the field of public health. RSVP required. More information. Healthcare Management Minor The Healthcare Management undergraduate minor provides student essential knowledge for participation in the healthcare sector of the economy with course content focused in healthcare systems, health policy, public health, finance, and ethics. catalog.louisville.edu/undergraduate/minors/healthcare-management WHAT'S HAPPENING CODRE Campus-wide Listening Session February 2, 11:00 to 1:00, Teams. “Our Next University President Search” As the university transitions to new leadership, what are you looking for in our next president? Everyone is welcome, and we look forward to hearing your voices. https://forms.office.com/r/2aVCgB93bb SPHIS & SGA present: World Cancer Day In accordance with World Cancer Day, an annual international day to mark and raise awareness of cancer. The University of Louisville School of Public Health & Information Sciences Student Government Association will celebrate World Cancer Day with a series of seminars featuring Keynote from Yale SOM. February 4, 10:00 am, Microsoft Teams, More information: louisville.edu/sphis/events/world-cancer-day-panel Family Friendly Event ULSOM AMA Advocacy Workshop The UofL School of Medicine AMA invites you to the Caged Bird: Bluelining and Medicine Series Advocacy Workshop on February 5 from 11am to 1pm, HSC Instructional Bldg Rm B102. Learn about adding your voice to a policy memo with Representative Attica Scott, Councilman Jecorey Arthur, and other leaders in the Louisville community. More Info and registration. AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS CODRE Diversity Programming funds available The CODRE Diversity Programming fund is to identify and/or support programming for staff, faculty, and students who promote diversity initiatives and social justice as multi-faceted endeavors that enhances and strengthens the campus climate. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/organization/codre COMMUTER & TRANSFER NEWS Good Morning Commuter Coffee and Doughnuts Tuesdays in the Red Barn 8:00 – 10:30 AM CLUBS, GROUPS, & ORGANIZATIONS Welcome back, spring 2022 Welcome old and new Botanical Society (BoSo) members. This is spring 2022 and we are going go full swing on our events and plans for this semester. Bring a plant, bring a friend, bring a plant friend. Hope to see you all there. February 4, 6:00 pm till 7:00 pm in BAB RM 325 louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7736642 SPA spring meetups Are you a UofL student-parent seeking a sense of belonging? Join other student-parents at the Student Parent Association (SPA) meetups on the 2nd & 4th Wednesdays in the Cultural & Equity Center. Next meeting will be on Feb. 23 (2 p.m.-4 p.m.). Email womenctr@louisville.edu or call 852-7715; 852-8976. SPORTS Get fit, don't quit Would you like to win an air fryer, protein shakes, speaker, backpack, etc.? All you have to do is complete a daily activity at the SRC. This coming week are the following activities: Monday—50 Jumping Jacks Tuesday—25 Sit-ups Wednesday—5 Pullups Men's Basketball vs. UNC Our Men’s Basketball team hosts North Carolina this week. Tip-off is scheduled for 8 pm on Tuesday night. Giveaways include a free Adidas T-shirt for students in attendance. Sign up for Walleyball The deadline to sign up for our Walleyball Tournament is February 2 at 4:30. If you do not know what Walleyball is, it is volleyball inside of a racquetball court. Sign up on IMLeagues.com/louisville. Women's Tennis at home The UofL Women’s Tennis team hosts Ball State this Friday at 4 pm. See you at the Bass-Rudd Tennis Center. gocards.com/calendar INTERNSHIP OPPORTUNITIES Inclusion & Equity Internship Program The office of Diversity Education & Inclusive Excellence is looking for students for our Inclusion and Equity Internship Program! We will be hosting an interest meeting on 2/10 at 5:30 PM in the DEC Multipurpose room. RSVP on our website. SUSTAINABILITY Roundtable: Louisville Metro Sustainability Join the UofL Sustainability Council on 2/1 for our spring Sustainability Roundtable series on alternate Tuesdays 4:00-4:50pm on Teams. Our speaker will be Julie Donna, Metro Louisville’s Sustainability Coordinator in the Office of Advanced Planning & Sustainability. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/sustainability-roundtable-julie-donna-on-sustainable-transportation Ecolympics 2022: Win with sustainable action Take sustainable actions to reduce your footprint, share it with us, and you could win one of 8 themed weekly gift baskets from now through March 26, or the grand prize mountain bike. Reduce, reuse, recycle, compost, bus, bike, walk, carpool, unplug, shut if off, take the stairs, work for justice. louisville.edu/sustainability/events/ecolympics-2022 ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. Where can I find information about scholarships? A. The Financial Aid website is a great resource for scholarships. Visit their page here: http://louisville.edu/financialaid/scholarships/. DID YOU KNOW? There is a University Alert System that will text you or email you when there is an emergency on campus. Go to: louisville.edu/alerts ALSO, there is a RAVE Guardian Safety App for your phone. You can instantly dial 911 or UofL Police, send a tip if you see a crime happening, or set a timer to alert your friends and police if you are late in arriving to a pre-determined destination. Go to: louisville.edu/cardsafety There is also a University Police Escort service from dusk to dawn and during daylight hours when documented safety concerns exist. louisville.edu/police/services CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe