No images? Click here May 1, 2022 Congratulations graduates! Commencement Schedule of Events Commencement will take place on Saturday, May 14, 2022. For a schedule of Commencement events, go to louisville.edu/commencement. Need help with your resume or job search? The University Career Center serves 9 of the 12 colleges/schools and can help you get where you are going. Career Coaches can help you create a plan for your future. You can also participate in career fairs, attend webinars, view job listings, and more. louisville.edu/career/about-us The Digital Transformation Center May–Aug Earn workforce skills online from our technology partners and get a chance to earn great prizes―like an Amazon Kindle Fire! Find out information here: express.adobe.com/page/u1wf2ECU9fiOr Enhance your degree with a certificate UofL offers several online certificate programs that can be completed in tandem with your undergrad or grad degree. Certificates are great additions to your resume and offer an opportunity to showcase focused knowledge and skills. View online certificates. louisville.edu/online/program-finder?program=cer Cultural Center Graduation Celebration The Graduation Celebration is an annual event to pay homage to the past, while celebrating the future and endless possibilities of graduating underrepresented students at the University of Louisville. Join us Thursday, May 12 at 6 p.m. in the SAC Ballroom. Registration: 2022gradcelebration.eventbrite.com Need help? University offices and departments are fully open and operational over the summer months. If you have a concern and don't know where to get help, go to louisville.concerncenter.com or call the Dean of Students office at (502) 852-5787. Did you know? There is a Student Handbook full of resources including Academic Grievance Procedure, Academic Advising, Counseling Center, International Student and Scholar Services, REACH (Resources for Academic Achievement), Student Financial Aid, Testing Services, and so much more. Go to: louisville.edu/dos/students/studentpoliciesandprocedures/student-handbook Online Student Resources Subscribe University of Louisville 2100 S. Floyd St. Student Activities Center, W301 Louisville, KY 40208 You are receiving this email because you are a University of Louisville online student. If you choose to unsubscribe, you agree to no longer receive important UofL news and updates. Unsubscribe