Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ About Us/ Dean's Office Navigation Dean's Office Dean's Authority and Responsibilities Organizational Chart (PDF) Office of the Dean Current Dean: Margaret Hill, DMD Interim Dean, University of Louisville School of Dentistry Dr. Hill was named Interim Dean for the University of Louisville School of Dentistry on January 12, 2022. Previously, she was Associate Dean for Academic Affairs. Prior to holding that role, she had oversight for the school's postgraduate residency programs. A native of Estill County, Kentucky, Dr. Hill obtained her bachelor's degree at Eastern Kentucky University. She then attended the University of Louisville School of Dentistry, earning her DMD in 1987. She then earned a certificate in General Practice Residency at the University of Louisville School of Dentistry in 1988. Dr. Hill completed her residency program in Periodontics at the University of Kentucky in 1990. Before joining the UofL School of Dentistry full-time, Dr. Hill worked in private practice in Elizabethtown, Kentucky. She continues to see patients through UofL Dental Associates. Dr. Hill has published extensively on oral health, with an emphasis on periodontal research. She is also active in dental and dental education organizations, holding leadership positions including Commission on Change and Innovation Liaison and Women’s Liaison for the American Dental Education Association. Additional Information Previous Dean: T. Gerard Bradley, BDS, MS, Dr.Med.Dent. Interim Provost, University of Louisville Dr. T. Gerard Bradley joined the University of Louisville as Dean of the School of Dentistry in August 2016. He is currently serving as Interim Provost for the University of Louisville. Before coming to UofL, Dr. Bradley was Chair and Professor of Developmental Sciences at Marquette University School of Dentistry and served also as the Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies. He previously served as the Program Director of the Advanced Education Program in Orthodontics at Marquette and is a Diplomate of the American Board of Orthodontics. Dr. Bradley also had an orthodontic practice during his time in Wisconsin. Dr. Bradley has published extensively and produced more than 50 publications, including book chapters, journal publications, and presentations. His work has been focused in biomaterials and the testing of materials that are commonly used in orthodontic practice. He has had experience in clinical trials that involved testing the mechanical properties, patient perceptions, and biocompatibility. Dr. Bradley is a member of the American Dental Association, the American Board of Orthodontics, the American Dental Education Association, the International Association for Dental Research, and is a fourth year Affiliate Member of the Edward H. Angle Society of Orthodontics. Dr. Bradley received his Dental degree in Cork, Ireland, his orthodontic specialty training at The Ohio State University, and a Doctorate in Dentistry at the University of Bern, Switzerland. Curriculum Vitae School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville