[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Cybersecurity Certificate /-/images/pages/gccs/2010_GC-CS_1596x740.jpg Secure your future. gcnis gcnis-program-page organic ../../programs/certificate-programs/graduate-certificate-in-cybersecurity?tab=apply Miriam Jones Online Enrollment Counselor Online Cybersecurity Certificate The online graduate certificate in Cybersecurity is designed for advanced computer professionals who wish to strengthen their knowledge and skills in the fast-changing field of cybersecurity. Offered by the J.B. Speed School of Engineering at the University of Louisville, this certificate prepares you to monitor and identify instances of cybercrime, and respond to increasingly more sophisticated attacks against the nation's information infrastructure. The 4 course (12 credit hour) program was developed as part of the University of Louisville’s Cyber Security Initiative, which strives to deliver more educated and informed computer science and engineering professionals to the industry. Overview Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid This certificate qualifies for financial aid. Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Other fees apply. Highlights Enrich your expertise in relevant and timely cybersecurity areas like information security, data mining, mobile computing and more. Gain the skills needed to grow or start your career as a cybersecurity professional. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes. Skip the GRE – not required for admission into the certificate program. Roll your certificate credits (12 hours) into UofL’s online Master of Science in Computer Science. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this certificate on your own time through fully online classes. Learn More 12 CREDIT HOURS Take only 4 courses to expand your expertise and earn your certificate. Learn More 1 YEAR PROGRAM Earn a valuable credential in less than 12 months! The University of Louisville is an NSA/DHS National CAE-CDE in Cyber Defense Designated Institution, providing specialized education and academic excellence in cyber defense. Learn more at NSA/CSS National Centers of Academic Excellence. Outcomes Big data is definitely here, and in a world continuously plagued by threats to our expanding databases, cybersecurity professionals are more essential to keeping our information secure than ever before—with jobs expected to grow 28% over the next decade (bls.gov). Graduates of this program can apply their knowledge to various careers in areas like network security, risk auditing or management, software security engineering, penetration testing, information security analysis, information forensics, cyber threat intelligence and more. Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. Steps to Apply Complete graduate application Submit $40 non-refundable application free Submit official transcripts certifying an undergraduate degree earned from an accredited institution* Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution* Minimum GPA of 2.75 Completion of required prerequisites (credits equivalent to CSE 130, CSE 310, and CSE 503 courses) or documentation demonstrating sufficient and relevant practical knowledge Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. International Students – Additional Notes/Requirements Bachelor's degrees earned internationally must be assessed to ensure that entrance requirements are met. If you live outside of the United States and intend to complete an online academic program from your home country, be sure to view special requirements for international students. A minimum total TOEFL score of 80 or an overall IELTS minimum score of 6.5 or Duolingo English Test minimum score of 105 for all foreign students from counties in which English is not the native language. International students will not be issued a U.S. visa if admitted to the online structural transportation certificate program, since there are no campus attendance requirements. The online graduate Graduate Certificate in Cybersecurity is a 12 credit hour program that requires 2 core courses and 2 courses of approved electives. Core Courses Course [required] Hours CSE 564 Introduction to Cryptography or CSE 568 Computer Forensics 3 CSE 566 Information Security 3 Total Required Hours 6 Electives Courses Course [choose 2] Hours CSE 590 Computer & Cyber Security 3 CSE 590 Software Security 3 CSE 590 Introduction to Machine Learning 3 CSE 613 Network Security 3 CSE 617 Mobile Computing 3 CSE 631 Database Security 3 CSE 632 Data Mining 3 CSE 694 Advanced Cryptography 3 CSE 694 Special Topics Courses: Department Approval Required 3 Total Required Hours 6 Students starting in this program will need to have sufficient background to be successful. Therefore, you must have completed the required course prerequisites, or have equivalent knowledge from courses taken at other universities, or from work experience. Prerequisites include CSE 130, CSE 310 and CSE 503, or equivalent. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Learn from the best! The faculty at the University of Louisville are leaders in the field of Data Science, Data Warehousing and Data Analysis. Their expertise spans the use of text, web, numerical and image data bases. They have worked in application areas such as medical, e-commerce, security, military, institutional and financial research. Our faculty have authored or contributed to textbooks and professional publications and have received research awards from the National Science Foundation (NSF), National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), National Institutes of Health (NIH) and Department of Defense (DoD). Overview Admissions COURSES TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link