Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Diversity & Equity Navigation Home About Us Meet the Staff What is Diversity? National Center for Faculty Development & Diversity Annual Report About UsAbout Us Dropdown Toggle Meet the Staff What is Diversity? National Center for Faculty Development & Diversity Annual Report Diversity Education and Inclusive Excellence Diversity Training Request Critical Cardinal Conversations Social Justice Camp Inclusion and Equity Internship Program Diversity Resources Photos Diversity Education and Inclusive ExcellenceDiversity Education and Inclusive Excellence Dropdown Toggle Diversity Training Request Critical Cardinal Conversations Social Justice Camp Inclusion and Equity Internship Program Diversity Resources Photos Campus Climate Survey Diversity Policy & Planning Diversity Plan KY CPE Diversity Policy Evaluation Rubric Diversity Policy & PlanningDiversity Policy & Planning Dropdown Toggle Diversity Plan KY CPE Diversity Policy Evaluation Rubric Diversity Related Academic Programs Diversity Centers Departments & Organizations Resources Anti-Racism Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Student Resources Resources Resources Dropdown Toggle Anti-Racism Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Student Resources University Policies Cultural and Equity Center National Center for Faculty Development & Diversity Home / Resources / Faculty & Staff Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Employee Resource Groups (ERG) The university hosts a number of employee resource groups (ERGs) that support our vision to be a great place to work. ERGs promote a climate of inclusion and provide a place where employees can come together to network, create a strong sense of community, and share their concerns with others. Commission on Diversity and Racial Equality (CODRE) The Commission on Diversity and Racial Equity (CODRE) was established in 1998 by University of Louisville President John Shumaker, to promote a campus culture of inclusion and engagement. The Commission’s role in diversity-related activities includes: To serve as the president’s policy advisor on issues of diversity at the University of Louisville. To make recommendations to the president for the development or revision of initiatives to make the University a more inclusive community, and to report the progress of these initiatives. To develop strategic and tactical actions in cooperation with the Commission on the Status of Women (COSW) to improve the learning and working environments at the University of Louisville. To support crucial dialog and efforts to promote cultural values and diverse perspectives that characterize the United States that must be reflected in our university. To serve as a resource to members of the president’s staff, executive cabinet, and individual units that seek assistance and advice with diversity and inclusion initiatives. To recognize and support staff and faculty who have made outstanding contributions in advancing diversity. To develop and support programming to augment student learning and research. Commission on the Status Women (COSW) In August of 1993, U of L’s President, Dr. Donald Swain, appointed the Task Force on the Status of Women to assess the status of women faculty and staff at the university and recommend changes to improve that status. From this ethnically diverse group of fourteen women and five men came Meeting the 21st Century: Access, Opportunity and Achievement— The Report of the Task Force on the Status of Women 1994, an in-depth study of issues affecting the work experience of women employees at U of L. Black Faculty Staff Association The Black Faculty/Staff Association (BFSA) of the University of Louisville was founded in 2002. The purpose of forming this organization was to address faculty and staff issues and develop a system of advocacy for Black employees of the University of Louisville. Our goals also include increasing Black student enrollment and retention and to aid students in their scholarly and cultural development. Throughout the year BFSA will discuss university and community issues of concern to faculty, staff, and students. We encourage you to browse our website, get involved and become an active BFSA member. Hispanic Latino Faculty and Staff Association (HLFSA) The Hispanic Latino Faculty and Staff Association (HLFSA) advises the President and the University of Louisville community on the nature of issues and needs confronting the Hispanic/Latino Faculty, Staff, and Students in the University; provide assistance in evaluating University programs as they pertain to the Hispanic/Latino community; provide input to University and City of Louisville officials; and assist the Hispanic/Latino community to make the University system more accessible. It began operating in 2011. The LGBTQ+ Faculty and Staff Association The LGBTQ+ Faculty and Staff Association strives to foster an environment that is open, safe, and inclusive of people of all sexualities and gender identities. Our aim is to advocate for and advance equity for LGBTQ+ people on campus and in the community. The group’s focus is on issues that affect employees, but it also collaborates with student groups to support other equity efforts on campus. The group has an active email distribution list and works in close collaboration with the LGBT Center. Contact the LGBTQ+ Faculty and Staff Association for more information. Young and Emerging Professionals (YEP) The UofL Young and Emerging Professionals (YEP) employee resource supports the personal and professional development of young professionals (ages 40 and below) or emerging professionals who are new to UofL or new to a particular career path. Our aim is to foster a community of support among young and emerging professionals through events and networking opportunities; to enhance the university culture through assisting with policy consideration and changes through the lens of young and emerging professionals; and to be visible around campus in the hopes of encouraging new initiatives and better practices tailored towards young and emerging professionals at the university. If you are a UofL employee and you self-identify as a young and/or emerging professional, you are eligible for membership and we welcome your participation. Older Adult Caregiver Support (OACS) Group The University of Louisville Trager Institute’s Older Adult Caregiver (OACS) Support group provides an opportunity for UofL, ULP and UofL Hospital employees (and retirees) who are involved in providing care to an older adult to get support from other caregivers, learn about caregivers, connect to local caregiver events, and more. This group a great way to meet other caregivers while gaining access to support and resources. OACS meets on the second Tuesday of each month from noon – 1 PM, alternating between Belknap and Health Sciences Campuses. Meeting announcements, including location, will be posted in UofL Today as well as shared on the OACS Facebook Group Page. Additionally, on-going virtual support will be available via the OACS Facebook Group. UofL Women’s Network The UofL Women’s Network is an inclusive organization committed to encouraging and promoting the personal and professional development of women faculty and staff at UofL. All employees including but not limited to faculty, staff, postdocs, house staff, and graduate assistants are eligible for membership. Working in collaboration with university partners, the network provides professional development opportunities through creation of programming and access to valuable contacts, information, and networking opportunities. Serving on the Advisory Committee for the Network are representatives from the Faculty and Staff Senates, the Commission on Diversity and Racial Equality, the Commission on the Status of Women, and administrators from the Offices of the President and the Provost representing the Belknap, Shelby and Health Sciences Campuses. Significant programs include the Annual Professional Development Roundtables, Meet and Greets, the Network Lunch Series, and After Hours events. For more information and to join the ListServe visit the Women's Network website. Other Information 2018-2019 Work Restricted Religious Holidays Policy and Calendar © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville