Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ News/ UofL expands its reach to Shelbyville, providing dental care for the underserved UofL expands its reach to Shelbyville, providing dental care for the underserved The new dental practice offers affordable dental care, and financial assistance may be available to those in need. Dr. Pallavi Patil consults with UofL dental students. A new clinical site in Shelbyville, Kentucky, makes it possible for the UofL School of Dentistry to further fulfill its mission of improving the oral health of Kentuckians. The dental practice, located in a business office park just south of U.S. 60 East/Midland Trail, provides close-to-home access for underserved populations in the area. The new site also gives dental students a community site near Louisville to learn alongside a full-time licensed dentist. School of Dentistry Interim Dean Margaret Hill says it is important for these future health care providers to grow their skills in a variety of settings outside the school. “As our students travel to other parts of Kentucky, they are maturing into culturally competent dental practitioners,” Hill said. “We build service into the educational experience, not just on a volunteer level but as a part of the curriculum,” Hill said. In recent years, the school opened a clinical rotation site in Paducah through a collaboration with West Kentucky Community and Technical College. UofL also sends students to Beverly, Kentucky, located in the eastern part of the state, to learn with a dentist at the Red Bird Dental Clinic. Pallavi Patil is an alumna of the School of Dentistry and the full-time dentist at UofL’s Shelbyville dental office. Patil says she looks forward to mentoring students and building relationships with patients. “I think it’s important to establish a good rapport and trust between doctor and patient. This helps patients feel comfortable and motivated throughout their comprehensive dental care,” she said. The new dental practice offers affordable dental care, and financial assistance may be available to those in need, thanks to the dental school’s Compassionate Care fund. This fund has helped numerous patients of the school pay for treatment. Donors to Compassionate Care include individuals and several organizations, including the Delta Dental of Kentucky Foundation. The foundation also has committed to help pay initial start-up costs at the Shelbyville site, making dental care even more economical for people in the region. The dental practice located at 77 Mack Walters Road is in close proximity to UofL Health – Shelbyville Hospital and other health care providers. Hill says in addition to serving new patients, the practice hopes to attract those who currently or previously traveled to the School of Dentistry for care. “For some of these folks, it’s very difficult to make a trip to downtown Louisville – so this will save them time and money,” she said. “It’s all about improving access to care.” Photo: Shelbyville dental practice ribbon-cutting on March 30, 2022. For more photos, view the Flickr photo gallery from the ribbon cutting event. Paige Moore with the School of Dentistry contributed to this article. By Julie Heflin Source: UofL News March 31, 2022 School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville