Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Research and Innovation Navigation Home About Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program Researchers Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway ResearchersResearchers Dropdown Toggle Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway Industry Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started IndustryIndustry Dropdown Toggle Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started Students & Post-Docs Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Students & Post-DocsStudents & Post-Docs Dropdown Toggle Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Participants Children in Research Open Trials ParticipantsParticipants Dropdown Toggle Children in Research Open Trials Contact Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup ContactContact Dropdown Toggle Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup Launching a Startup LaunchIt Entrepreneurship Initiatives Our Startups Home / Industry / Launching a Startup Startups The University of Louisville has everything you need to launch your startup - from R&D support, to entrepreneurial training, to access to innovative technologies. Launching your startup with UofL Universities are places for big ideas and innovation. So, the University of Louisville is a natural partner for startups and new ventures, who need to solve problems, innovate and grow. Whether you're already working on your idea or have no idea where to start, our UofL New Ventures office can help your company launch here. UofL is home to research-born and validated technologies primed to build on, world-class experts who can help with R&D, entrepreneurship training and a space to work out of. You can learn more about some of our startups here. Contact the UofL New Ventures office to learn how we can help your company: Build your startup around a UofL-born technology. Licensing UofL technologies We can help you identify technologies invented by UofL researchers that may be the ideal platform for building your new startup business. We take a flexible approach to negotiation, and can work with you to craft terms that meet both parties' goals. To learn more and browse available technologies, please visit our Licensing and Technologies page. Find co-working or startup space. UofL startup space Need a place to work, meet or just think? Your ideal space may be at UofL, perhaps in our iHub coworking space on our downtown J.D. Nichols Campus for Innovation and Entrepreneurship. The iHub also hosts regular office hours with business and legal experts through out Forcht Center for Entrepreneurship and College of Business. In addition, we have secured day passes for several local co-working spaces. These spaces are meeting and connection points founders, investors, freelancers, and innovators from across the Louisville region. You must register using this form to request a day pass. Locations include Nulu, Paristown Pointe, and New Albany: Story Louisville - 900 E Main St, Louisville Hopewell Labs - 731 Brent Street, Louisville Lodgic - 552 E Market St, Louisville The Root - 110 E Market St, New Albany Continue R&D and product development. Product Development at UofL UofL is home to world-class researchers specializing in a range of disciplines, energetic students who love working with industry and state-of-the-art facilities for R&D and prototyping. Our researchers have a long history of working with industry partners on R&D, prototyping and problem solving via sponsored research. Or, you may prefer to work with our service centers, including those for rapid prototyping, micro/nano technology and more, through fee-for-service work. More information on our service centers is available here. And, of course, our students love working on industry projects, which give them a chance to learn hands-on skills while offering companies a fresh perspective and energy. More information on woking with our students is available here. Learn more about entrepreneurship. UofL entrepreneurship training As a world-class university, UofL is a great place to learn and gain the training you need to become the best entrepreneur you can be. A range of options are available, ranging from completing a certificate or degree program (including our well-regarded Innovation MBA), microcredentialling through our Center for Digital Transformation, or participating in our innovative 10-week entrepreneurship bootcamp, LaunchIt. What many entrepreneurs like best about our LaunchIt program are the contacts they make. Each week begins with a presentation by a successful member of the local business community. Collectively they address a range of important topics — marketing, legal structure, sources of capital, and more. After the featured presentation, entrepreneurs work in smaller groups with a business coach. Our coaches are knowledgeable entrepreneurs with an in-depth understanding of launching and growing a business. Scholarships are available. Launching a Startup LaunchIt Entrepreneurship Initiatives Our Startups CONTACT Ready to get started? Contact us below to start innovating: STORIES OFFICE OF RESEARCH & INNOVATION University of Louisville 300 E Market Street Louisville, Kentucky 40202 MORE INFORMATION Phone (Main) 502.852.6512, 502.852.8361 (Fax) Looking for a unit within the Office of Research and Innovation? Contact information here. Email Email Research and Innovation Service Account © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville