[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Master's Degree Programs / Online Master of Education in Teacher Leadership /-/images/pages/medtl/2010_MEdTL_1596x740.jpg Where teachers learn to lead. medtl medtl-program-page organic ../../programs/masters/master-of-education-in-teacher-leadership?tab=apply Erin Elrod Online Enrollment Counselor Online Master of Education in Teacher Leadership The online Master of Education in Teacher Leadership is designed primarily for Kentucky certified teachers who want to develop leadership skills that can impact students and influence peers. Offered by the College of Education and Human Development at the University of Louisville, the teacher leadership master’s program aims to strengthen skills in assessment, evaluation, curriculum and instruction to meet the needs of diverse learners. This program places priority on your classroom and school as the focal points of course discussions, assignments and assessments—allowing you to directly apply what you are learning to your teaching environment, in the classroom and beyond. Overview Outcomes Application Specializations Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Tuition and fees are subject to change at any time without prior notice Highlights Prepare to serve as a strategic teacher leader — facilitate change at the classroom, school and system level, and coach other teachers to enhance their pedagogical skills. Learn and apply theories and classroom techniques that will help you build a successful career and empower those around you. Take specialized courses tailored to specific content areas and grade levels. Learn from world-class faculty with extensive teaching and research experience. Complete your degree as quickly as within 2 years. Customize your degree with concentrations, endorsements or certificate options. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION * Check state authorizations for requirements in your state. 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this degree on your own time through fully online coursework. Learn More 30 CREDIT HOURS The online master’s in teacher leadership is comprised of 10 courses. Learn More $564 PER CREDIT HOUR UofL offers a special tuition rate for teachers enrolling in approved programs. Teachers give their best to their students and UofL gives its best to teachers! UofL offers a 25% Tuition Reduction for Teachers enrolling in approved teacher education programs. Read the Q&A with Betty Hampton, Director of Graduate Services in the College of Education and Human Development at UofL. What will I learn as a Master of Education in Teacher Leadership student? The expertise you’ll develop as a student in the M.Ed. in Teacher Leadership program will help you develop your leadership skills and ability to influence your students and peers. Specific expertise gained from the program will include: An understanding of instructional strategies and materials that can help you improve instruction while integrating technology practices to meet the need of modern learners. An exploration of curricular approaches and teaching strategies appropriate for inclusive early childhood classroom. Focused knowledge with specialized expertise in English as a second language, instructional technology, classroom reading or autism. What is the job outlook for someone with a M.Ed. in Teacher Leadership? Created in collaboration with school district specialists, school administrators, university faculty and P-12 classroom teachers, UofL’s teacher leadership program prepares Rank III certified Kentucky teachers and out-of-state teachers to pursue career tracks including: Curriculum design specialist Curriculum coordinator Curriculum and instruction specialist Instructional coach Instructional assessment and evaluation specialist Board certified behavior analyst Autism spectrum disorder specialist Department chair Classroom reading/literacy specialist Instructional technology specialist English as a second language specialist The 2019-2029 occupational outlook for high school, middle school, and elementary teachers is expected to grow 4% nationwide, which is as fast as the average national occupation growth rate (bls.gov). The median annual salary of a Rank II teacher in Kentucky (master’s level) is $55,890 and varies based on years of experience (education.ky.gov). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Priority Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May/June Note: Although admission is granted on a rolling basis throughout the year, applicants are encouraged to work on and submit their complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts, test scores and other materials may take more time. Applications submitted or completed after the preferred deadline will be considered on a case-by-case basis for the next available start/term. Steps to Apply Complete graduate application Submit $65 non-refundable application fee Have official transcripts of all undergraduate and graduate work sent directly to UofL* Submit 2 letters of recommendation (please list email addresses for recommenders in the online application) Sign code of ethics/technology statement [PDF] and upload within online application Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Bachelor’s degree earned from an accredited institution* Minimum preferred undergraduate GPA of 2.75 and graduate GPA (if applicable) of 3.0 If GPA is lower than 2.75, GRE scores are required; please email gedadm@louisville.edu regarding minimum score requirements Valid Kentucky Teaching Certificate or statement of eligibility for candidates outside Kentucky (see section below). Current resume Two professional writing samples, uploaded within online application Essay 1 – In what ways has your cultural heritage and background influenced the way you teach, and impacted your interactions with others who come from a different cultural background? Describe an example of an injustice or inequity that you witnessed, experienced, or became aware of during teaching - and your response at that time. Then, explain how you would respond if it occurred again. Finally, explain how you support respect for diversity in your classroom, and how you demonstrate a commitment to social justice and equity when teaching. Essay 2 – Please review the Professional Dispositions Rubric [PDF] and consider how you would evaluate your areas of strength as well as those for potential growth in each of the categories. In your essay, please identify three categories that you would rate yourself as "target" or "exemplary" and explain why. Then, identify one area for professional growth, and explain how you envision this program supporting your growth in this area. Please adhere to the following format for both essays: Double-spaced Times New Roman 12-point font No more than three pages Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. Out-of-state Applicants Certified teachers outside Kentucky should be advised that we cannot guarantee the program will meet licensure, salary, advancement or other requirements in their state. As part of the admission process, we require a written statement confirming their interest in the program for personal development and that they understand the program is designed to meet Kentucky certification requirements only. For more information, please contact our academic advisor at betty.hampton@louisville.edu. If you live outside of the United States, be sure to view special requirements for international students. Application Form: Which Program to Select? When you reach the "Program Choice" page of your application, select one of the four Teacher Leadership programs. See the screenshot below for reference. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselors at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. The online master’s in teacher leadership is a 30-credit hour program available as a general teacher leadership degree or with a focus in special education. Master of Education in Teacher Leadership Course List Credit Hours Level I - Teaching Expertise EDAP 637 Using Assessment to Improve Student Achievement 3 EDAP 638 Instructional Strategies for Diverse Learners 3 EDAP 639 Educational Research in P-12 Setting 3 Level II - Specialized Expertise [choose one] English as a Second Language, online endorsement 12 Instructional Technology P-12, online endorsement 12 Classroom Reading P-12, online endorsement 15 Level III- Beyond the Classroom EDAP 677 Developing Collaborative Groups: Facilitating, Coaching and Mentoring 3 EDAP 681 Teacher Leadership in Practice 3 TOTAL Credit Hours in the Program 30 To meet graduation requirements, students in the Master of Education in Teacher Leadership program must complete a total of 30 credit hours. Additional electives may be required. Graduate students will work with their advisor to design an appropriate program to meet their professional needs. Master of Education in Teacher Leadership – Special Education Course List Level I – Teaching Expertise Credit Hours EDSP 639 Education Research in the P-12 Setting 3 EDSP 644 Applied Behavior Analysis 3 EDSP 669 Single Subject Research Designs 3 Level II - Specialized Expertise - Courses for Level II will vary by concentration (15 hours) Specialization Options Autism concentration courses OR 15 Enhanced Content Courses 15 Level III –Teacher Leadership EDSP 652 Academic and Behavior Response to Intervention 3 EDSP 653 OR 687 Practicum in Autism and Applied Behavior Analysis OR Specialized Practicum 3 TOTAL Credit Hours in the Program 30 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Sample Course Descriptions The online Master of Education in Teacher Leadership is designed to meet your needs and career goals, and help you excel as a leader at your institution. You can further customize your degree by choosing an endorsement or a concentration in special education. Once admitted, you will meet with a faculty advisor selected based on the concentration area identified on your application. During this meeting, either online or in-person, you will collaboratively design your master’s program to address your professional growth plan. Endorsements available include: Classroom Reading Instructional Technology English as a Second Language The teaching endorsements are programs designed to broaden the expertise and knowledge-base of Kentucky educators at various levels, while adding valuable credentials through certifications to a Kentucky teaching license. Specialization options include: Autism Spectrum Disorder and Applied Behavior Analysis Concentration Course Delivery Courses are taught 100% online, with some courses accessed via webcam in interactive, synchronous sessions beginning at 4:30 p.m. ET or later, on specific weekdays. Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and Applied Behavior Analysis concentration available within the Master of Education in Teacher Leadership – Special Education is designed for teachers who want to advanced their knowledge and further their expertise in providing support for persons with ASD. This concentration places strong emphasis on the application of assessment and intervention procedures rooted in the principles of applied behavior analysis. Kentucky teachers will complete 30 credit hours of graduate course work in this program, and will satisfy the Kentucky Education Professional Standards Board requirement for Rank II. Note: this concentration does not lead to teacher certification. Teachers interested in adding a certification must pursue a Master of Education in Special Education – Moderate to Severe Disabilities (MSD) online or a Master of Education in Special Education – Learning and Behavior Disorders (LBD) on campus. View the credit requirements for this concentration and for the Master of Education in Teacher Leadership – Special Education online program. Enhanced Content Emphasis Course Delivery Courses are taught 100% online, with some courses accessed via webcam in interactive, synchronous sessions beginning at 4:30 p.m. ET or later, on specific weekdays. The Enhanced Content Emphasis concentration (36 credit hours) within the Master of Education in Teacher Leadership - Special Education at the University of Louisville is designed for teachers looking to grow their expertise in various self-selected areas of emphasis. Students in this program can select courses across different special education content areas to address needs specific to their career goals or interests. This program does not lead to additional certifications or licensures, but does meet Kentucky’s Educational Professional Standard Boards (EPSB) requirement for maintaining certification. For additional endorsements or specialization options available on campus within the Master of Education in Teacher Leadership, contact our academic advisor at betty.hampton@louisville.edu. The set of questions and answers outlined below can help you learn more about our program, delivery method, application and admission process, financial aid options and how to succeed as an online student at UofL. Are classes available to complete the master's degree entirely online? Yes! You can complete the entire program 100% online, but you also have the option of taking courses in person if you are local to Louisville. May I transfer credits from another institution or program into my master's program? Once you are admitted to the program, you may request to transfer up to 6 credit hours if your UofL advisor approves the request. Transfer requests are then submitted to the School of Interdisciplinary and Graduate Studies. How long does it take to complete this program? The Teacher Leadership program can be completed in as few as two years or as many as six. What should I write about in my Personal Statement? The personal statement is the applicant's opportunity to demonstrate their writing ability as well as provide a personal introduction to the admissions screening committee. The personal statement should be no more than 500 words, and should be double spaced and word-processed. Applicants are encouraged to proofread their writing and to submit the best work possible. The attached rubric (Ideas to Action Holistic Construct Rubric [PDF]) is provided to help applicants understand how their writing will be evaluated. In developing the personal statement, applicants are encouraged to identify and describe personal characteristics, abilities, beliefs and goals as well as diverse experiences with children and adolescents, which will contribute to their success as an outstanding educator. Applicants should also review the College of Education and Human Development’s Conceptual Framework, reflecting on the concepts of inquiry, action, and advocacy. Applicants should consider the following questions: How do you demonstrate intellectual curiosity? How do you develop positive relationships and work collaboratively with peers, teachers, and others? How do you demonstrate the interpersonal skills necessary to do the daily work of teaching? What would demonstrate your commitment to diversity, equity and social justice? (give examples of how you exhibit this commitment) What are the characteristics critical to successful teaching, such as dependability, initiative, organization? (give examples of how you exhibit those traits) What degrees or endorsements do I receive if I complete the Master of Education in Teacher Leadership Program at UofL? Successful candidates will graduate with a Master of Education (M.Ed.) in Teacher Leadership, including Classroom Reading, English as a Second Language, or Instructional Technology and receive a Teacher Leadership Endorsement (with possibility of other endorsements within the Specialization, including Classroom Reading, English as a Second Language, or Instructional Technology). If you already have a master’s degree and seek only the Teacher Leadership Endorsement, you will complete Levels I and III of the master’s program. Will the Master of Education in Teacher Leadership Endorsement help me prepare for National Board Certification? Most courses in the Master of Education in Teacher Leadership program are designed to align with at least one of the NBPTS Core Propositions, as well as the Kentucky Teacher Standards (Advanced Level), Kentucky Education Reform Act (KERA) initiatives, and Education Professional Standards Board (EPSB) themes. Each course in the program includes a description of its relationship to NBPTS Core Propositions. The UofL Master of Education in Teacher Leadership is designed so that candidates practice types of entries required in the National Board Professional Teaching Standards (NBPTS) portfolio. The NBPTS portfolio is a Rank I option in Kentucky. Will this program lead to principal certification? No, but the University of Louisville does offer a school principal certification program. Do I earn the same degree that on-campus students earn? Does the diploma say “online”? Your degree—just like the quality of your courses—will be identical to those received by on campus students. It will not contain the method of course delivery (i.e. “online”). Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses Specializations TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link