Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Human Resources Navigation Home Benefits Medical Coverage Dental Vision Life Tuition Remission Retirement Additional Benefits Types of Leave Flexible Spending Pharmacy Long Term Disability Short Term Disability Benefits Definitions Benefits Specialists COBRA Optum BenefitsBenefits Dropdown Toggle Medical Coverage Dental Vision Life Tuition Remission Retirement Additional Benefits Types of Leave Flexible Spending Pharmacy Long Term Disability Short Term Disability Benefits Definitions Benefits Specialists COBRA Optum Compensation Compensation and Total Rewards Study Job Description Instructions Compensation Analysts UofL Compensation & Benefits Survey FAQs Compensation & Total Rewards Study Timeline Compensation & Benefits Employee Input Survey CompensationCompensation Dropdown Toggle Compensation and Total Rewards Study Job Description Instructions Compensation Analysts UofL Compensation & Benefits Survey FAQs Compensation & Total Rewards Study Timeline Compensation & Benefits Employee Input Survey Employment Jobs at UofL New Employee Onboarding Manager Resources Employment Verification HR Business Partners Exit Surveys Contact Employment EmploymentEmployment Dropdown Toggle Jobs at UofL New Employee Onboarding Manager Resources Employment Verification HR Business Partners Exit Surveys Contact Employment Employee Relations Campus Accessibility Page Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Formal ADA Complaint Procedure Improvement Plans Unemployment Compensation Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Requirements and Procedures EEO/Affirmative Action Grievances Performance Evaluation Labor Law Posters Certification of Completion - Title IX Certification of Completion - Discriminatory Harassment COVID-19 Unemployment FAQs Kentucky Unemployment Fraud Information Workday Employee RelationsEmployee Relations Dropdown Toggle Campus Accessibility Page Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) Formal ADA Complaint Procedure Improvement Plans Unemployment Compensation Commercial Driver's License (CDL) Requirements and Procedures EEO/Affirmative Action Grievances Performance Evaluation Labor Law Posters Certification of Completion - Title IX Certification of Completion - Discriminatory Harassment COVID-19 Unemployment FAQs Kentucky Unemployment Fraud Information Workday Get Healthy Now Employee Success Center Policies The University of Louisville Policy Statement as a Drug-Free Institution Definitions PoliciesPolicies Dropdown Toggle The University of Louisville Policy Statement as a Drug-Free Institution Definitions Forms Contact Us HRtalks and HRlistens Employee Resources Benefits Design Workgroup UofL Event Calendar Employee ResourcesEmployee Resources Dropdown Toggle Benefits Design Workgroup UofL Event Calendar Workday Home / Compensation / Job Description Instructions Job Description Instructions For Job Description Form, click here. For the PDF instructions, click here. Breaking Down the Job Description Form: Field Instructions Job Title Include preferred job title. Compensation will recommend final titles to ensure accuracy and consistency across the university. Reports To Use the title of the job to which this job reports, not the manager's name (e.g. Director-Total Rewards) Department Use the name of the department, not a department code or number (e.g., Human Resources) Job Summary The Job Summary should outline the high-level responsibilities of the job, not go into details of responsibilities. Essential Duties & Responsibilities List the primary duties and responsibilities of the job. This should not be a task list or desk procedures, but the top 4 to 7 responsibilities of the job. List the duties in descending order of impact/time. Minimum Requirements List the minimum requirements for candidates to be considered for the job. Candidates that do not meet these minimum requirements cannot be considered for the job. Include education, work experience, certification, system or technology experience or other skills that are required. For example: Bachelor’s degree in __________________ or equivalent combination of education and work experience. X years’ experience in__________________. Proficient in MS Outlook, Word, Excel, PowerPoint. Effective oral, written and interpersonal communication skills. Certification in ____________________. Preferred Qualifications List any preferred qualifications that the ideal candidate would have. This may include an advanced degree, a specific type of experience, preferred certifications, etc. Competencies List Competencies relevant to this job. For example, a director-level job may have the following competencies: Project Management - organized, task oriented, ability to delegate and follow up. Proactive - anticipates and plans for problems before they arise. Analytical- evaluating data and other information with the ability to choose the best solution and make recommendations. Flexible – ability to change directions as needed for the good of the department or organization. Service Excellence – responsive, informs constituents of process, pleasant to work with, educates and provides timely, accurate information. Organized – manages time effectively, keeps tasks appropriately prioritized. Critical Thinking – ability to think through issues and identify appropriate options. Work Ethic – motivated, diligent, industrious and persistent in the workplace, stays on tasks to completion, works at a fast pace to ensure optimal efficiency. Interpersonal – can build effective, strong working relationships with employees, colleagues, management and vendors through trust, communication, and credibility. Teamwork – ability to work with others, serve others, help others, lead others, mentor others, take directions from others in the interest of moving process and programs forward to the desired outcome. Physical Requirements List the physical demands of the job that the candidate/incumbent is required to be able to perform. Most office jobs will be the same, but certain jobs may have additional requirements due to the specialized nature of the job. For example: Requires working in a typical office environment with sitting and regular use of a computer, the ability to see, hear and use office equipment and occasional standing, stooping and lifting up to 20 lbs. May require occasional travel between University buildings to meet with others. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville