Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Student Financial Aid Office Navigation Home Financial Aid: Start to Finish Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Financial Aid: Start to FinishFinancial Aid: Start to Finish Dropdown Toggle Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Loans Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment LoansLoans Dropdown Toggle Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment Grants Work Study Scholarships and Other Resources Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments Scholarships and Other ResourcesScholarships and Other Resources Dropdown Toggle Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments State Aid KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change State AidState Aid Dropdown Toggle KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change Tuition Waivers Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Tuition WaiversTuition Waivers Dropdown Toggle Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Verification Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf VerificationVerification Dropdown Toggle Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Satisfactory Academic ProgressSatisfactory Academic Progress Dropdown Toggle Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Summer Financial Aid Competency Based Education—Healthcare Leadership Flex Option Program Consumer Information Net Price Calculator ED Net Price Calculator Net Price CalculatorNet Price Calculator Dropdown Toggle ED Net Price Calculator Other Information Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Other InformationOther Information Dropdown Toggle Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Financial Wellness Contact Us Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Contact UsContact Us Dropdown Toggle Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Reporting Verification Verification Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf Important message for students with a FAFSA selected for verification: Per announcements from the U.S. Department of Education's office of Federal Student Aid on July 13, 2021, and May 18, 2022, most students selected for the 2021-2022 and 2022-2023 verification process are no longer required to complete verification. Active students who are no longer required to complete verification for the 2022-2023 aid year will be notified by our office. Please note, some students will still have to resolve conflicting FAFSA information and/or complete the verification process before federal aid eligibility can be evaluated or disbursed, and our office will follow up with those students as needed. For students who have already submitted verification documents,we will review your documents and will contact you if any additional information is needed. Please click here to access the official announcement from the U.S. Department of Education. Verification Form 2023 Interactive Module for the 2022-2023 award year (fall 2022, spring 2023, and summer 2023) Download Adobe Reader General Information The verification process requires the University of Louisville’s Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) to verify self-reported information from your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) before finalizing your federal aid eligibility. The U.S. Department of Education requires UofL to comply with federal regulations as part of the process of awarding federal aid. UofL has the authority to request copies of certain financial documents during this process. These documents may be requested from you, your parent(s), and/or your spouse (if married). You will be notified by email if you are selected for verification, and the forms will be available on your ‘Tasks’ list on ULink. Check your ‘Tasks’ list frequently for additional updates about your verification and financial aid status. You can check your ‘Tasks’ by logging in to ULink and selecting the ‘Tasks’ tile on the Student Homepage. If you have difficulty printing your verification form, please contact us at 502.852.5511 or visit our office. The form and any attachments can be submitted via the ULink Financial Aid Document upload process or by mail, in person, or by fax. Do not email the verification form or any additional requested documentation. The Financial Aid Document Upload process accessed through your ULink account is the only permissable way to securely submit financial aid documents electronically. The verification process cannot begin if you and/or, if applicable, your parent(s) are required to file an IRS income tax return and have not yet filed. The only exception is if you and/or your parent(s) have been granted an additional IRS filing extension beyond the automatic six-month extension. If this situation applies to you, please contact our office for additional information. If there are any differences between your FAFSA application and your verified information, we (the SFAO) may send corrections electronically to have your FAFSA reprocessed. After verification is completed, you and/or your parent(s) may be required to report asset information on the FAFSA. You will be notified if additional information is needed. Verification Form Statuses The Verification Form status in your ULink ‘Task’ tile will change throughout the verification process. Below are the Verification Form statues you may see, along with a description of each: Initiated: Your form has been assigned but not yet received by our office. Accepted: A verification item has been received but not reviewed. Active: Additional information is needed: Review your ULink Task Tile and your UofL e-mail. Received: Your form is being reviewed. Monitor your ULink Task Tile and your UofL e-mail. In Progress: Your form is being processed. You will be sent an email from our office once verification has been completed. The email will include next steps regarding the financial aid process. Due Dates You must complete verification before your federal, state, and/or campus need-based financial aid eligibility can be finalized and evaluated for disbursement to your student account. Verification must be completed by the priority due dates below to ensure your aid eligibility is evaluated prior to the start of the term in which you are enrolled. Your financial aid (if previously offered or disbursed) will be cancelled if your verification form and all required documents are not submitted by this date. Types of aid that may be awarded, cancelled, updated, and/or changed based on completion of the verification process: Federal Pell, SEOG, and TEACH Grants, Federal Direct Loans, Federal Work-Study, state CAP Grant, and UofL Need-Based Grants. The verification process will determine if you are eligible for any of these types of aid. Certain types of aid (please see above) may not be available if verification is completed after the priority due date. Failure to submit the requested documentation by the deadlines provided below could result in the discontinuation of all application processing, including federal student loans. If you received a specific deadline date by e-mail from our office, you must submit the verification form and required documents by that date or your financial aid will be cancelled. Please contact our office if you cannot meet the deadlines. 2021-2022 Due Dates Your Final Term of Enrollment for the Aid Year: Priority Due Date: Final Deadline: Fall 2021 June 25, 2021 November 29, 2021 Spring 2022 November 29, 2021 April 18, 2022 Summer 2022 April 18, 2022 July 25, 2022 For Federal Pell Grant eligibility review only: Verification must be completed by 9/9/2022, or 120 days after the last date of the student’s 2021-2022 academic year enrollment, whichever is earlier. 2022-2023 Due Dates Your Final Term of Enrollment for the Aid Year: Priority Due Date: Final Deadline: Fall 2022 June 24, 2022 November 28, 2022 Spring 2023 November 28, 2022 April 17, 2023 Summer 2023 April 17, 2023 July 24, 2023 For Federal Pell Grant eligibility review only: Verification must be completed by 9/08/2023, or 120 days after the last date of the student’s 2022-2023 academic year enrollment, whichever is earlier. Dental and Medical Students If you are a School of Dentistry student, please contact the School of Dentistry’s Financial Aid Office for information regarding the verification process (Telephone: 502.852.5076; Website: louisville.edu/dentistry/financialaid). If you are a School of Medicine student, please contact the School of Medicine’s Financial Aid Office for information regarding the verification process (Telephone: (502) 852-5187; Website: louisville.edu/medicine/financialaid). © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville