No images? Click here October 4, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews IMPORTANT INFORMATION Alcohol Policy Recognized Student Organizations & Councils— louisville.edu/dos/students/studentorgnizations/alcohol-policy The University prohibits possession or use of alcoholic beverages by individuals less than 21 years of age and explicitly counsels only low-risk use. 2021 Annual Security and Fire Safety Report The UofL 2021 Annual Security and Fire Safety Report is NOW AVAILABLE. Review our Crime Statistics, Fire Safety Report, Safety Tips, Policies, Programs, and Resources. Access the report through the ULPD website at louisville.edu/police/clery-crime-reports or request a paper copy. CAMPUS SAFETY TIPS Always lock your housing unit’s or office’s doors and windows. Know who is at the door before opening. Do not allow unapproved visitors into a locked building. If you’re riding a bicycle, be diligent about pedestrians and obey all traffic laws. Always lock your bicycle to a designated rack with a secure lock (we recommend a “U” lock). If you’re driving a vehicle, be extra considerate of pedestrians, bicycles and motorcycles. Remember that alcohol and drugs impair your system—plus, driving under the influence is a serious crime. louisville.edu/police/docs/back-to-school-safety-tips ACADEMICS Undergraduate degree in Public Health UofL offers a BS, BA in Public Health, pre-health track and an accelerated masters’ program! These degrees are perfect for students interested in pursuing careers in health promotion, health care administration, health research, and much more! louisville.edu/sphis/academics EVENTS Commission on Diversity and Racial Equality (CODRE) campus-wide listening session October 6, 11:30 to 1:30, Microsoft Teams. “Work Life Balance” How do you balance school and work? Do you feel like you have a good balance of both? To register to attend these sessions click here. raiseRED Volleyball Student Night Hey Cards! Come show your support for Volleyball and raiseRED all at once on Friday, October 8 @ 7:00 pm at L&N Federal Credit Union Arena. Admission is free for all students. www.instagram.com/raisered_uofl/ RaiseRED J-Town Beach Volleyball Tournament Sign up for the raiseRED Sand Volleyball Tournament on October 9 starting at 11:00AM at J-Town Beach. Cost per team is $120. Minimum of 4 players needed. Open to all skill levels! The registration cost and a portion of sales will go to raiseRED! docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdqhzjRtl4-fJjIS8jwijQRbtmlyGpC8i3cb56NWMDIQhX7Eg/viewform raiseRED Just Dance presented by Salsarita's Just Dance into Registration Week Kick Off and come show off your moves, learn more about raiseRED, and register for the marathon! Download the Just Dance Now app and join us in the SAC Multipurpose Room from 7-8 PM on October 11. www.instagram.com/raisered_uofl Black Alumni-Student Networking Mixer Join us on Oct. 20 at 6:00 p.m. for an Alumni-Student Networking Mixer at the Speed Art Museum. Students will have the opportunity to expand their network, build new relationships and share their student experience with alumni. Alumni will have the opportunity to network and share their experiences and advice with students. https://bit.ly/3omtoDi Campus Dining events Hey Cards, Check out all the fun events UofL Dining has planned by going to our events page on our website: louisville.campusdish.com/Events CLUBS, GROUPS, & ORGANIZATIONS Ballroom Dance Club in the SRC The Ballroom Dance Club meets Tuesday evenings in the SRC, learning dances such as the foxtrot, swing, salsa, cha cha, waltz, and hustle. No experience and no partner required. A new dance is featured each month. Its a great way to meet people...come dance with us. Mindfulness Meditation Club meeting The Mindfulness Meditation Club is having our weekly meeting on Thursday, Oct. 7 from 5 to 6 p.m.. Students have the option to attend in person in SAC W309K or virtually on Microsoft Teams. We will complete a journaling prompt & guided meditation together. WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS Pair of Volleyball matches at home this week Your #3 UofL volleyball team is home this week for two matches. The Cards duel it out on the court at L&N Federal Credit Union Arena against Boston College on Friday at 7 p.m. before returning on Sunday to take on Syracuse at 1 p.m. Promotions include mini volleyball & phone wallet giveaways! gocards.com/calendar Cardinal Family Weekend for Football Louisville Football is back home this Saturday, October 9, for Cardinal Family Weekend. Purchase up to four $15 discounted student tickets for Saturday’s game by visiting https://uofl.me/fbstudenttix. Women's Soccer Family Fun Day It’s Family Fun Day at Dr. Mark and Cindy Lynn Stadium this week. The women’s soccer team hosts NC State on Sunday at 1 p. m. Admission is free. Come early to play soccer BINGO! SRC Fall Break hours The SRC will observe modified hours of operation during Fall Break. Hours will be 11 AM to 5 PM Saturday, 1 PM to 7 PM Sunday and 9 AM to 9 PM Monday and Tuesday. We hope you enjoy a safe and happy Fall Break! Ice Hockey Club to host ACHA Showcase The Ice Hockey Club will host the ACHA Showcase this weekend at Iceland Arena. They will face Virginia Tech at 6:15pm Friday, Virginia at 5:00pm Saturday, and Davenport at 12:00pm Sunday. Tickets are $7 w/student ID. Dress warm and come check out some exciting Cards ice hockey this weekend! CAREER DEVELOPMENT Handshake for your career planning Access the Handshake career system for listings of part-time jobs, internships, and full-time/entry-level opportunities. The platform also has other career development resources. Make sure your Handshake profile is up to date so that employers can reach out to you about opportunities. Register in Handshake with your UofL ID and password at louisville.joinhandshake.com/login and if you need assistance, contact the University Career Center (louisville.edu/career). ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I am really struggling with not having enough food. Are there any resources on campus to help me? A. The Commonwealth Credit Union Cardinal Cupboard is a great resource for students. Through fundraising and food drives, the Cupboard’s increases accessibility to food and health products to members of the Cardinal community to reduce their financial burden. The Cupboard is located on the 3rd floor of the SAC, over the train tracks. For more information, visit: louisville.edu/involvement/leadership/engage-lead-serve-board/cardinalcupboard. DID YOU KNOW? There are academic, university event, HSC event, and university holiday calendars online for your convenience. louisville.edu/calendars CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe