Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Student Financial Aid Office Navigation Home Financial Aid: Start to Finish Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Financial Aid: Start to FinishFinancial Aid: Start to Finish Dropdown Toggle Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Loans Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment LoansLoans Dropdown Toggle Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment Grants Work Study Scholarships and Other Resources Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments Scholarships and Other ResourcesScholarships and Other Resources Dropdown Toggle Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments State Aid KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change State AidState Aid Dropdown Toggle KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change Tuition Waivers Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Tuition WaiversTuition Waivers Dropdown Toggle Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Verification Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf VerificationVerification Dropdown Toggle Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Satisfactory Academic ProgressSatisfactory Academic Progress Dropdown Toggle Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Summer Financial Aid Competency Based Education—Healthcare Leadership Flex Option Program Consumer Information Net Price Calculator ED Net Price Calculator Net Price CalculatorNet Price Calculator Dropdown Toggle ED Net Price Calculator Other Information Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Other InformationOther Information Dropdown Toggle Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Financial Wellness Contact Us Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Contact UsContact Us Dropdown Toggle Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Reporting Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf How to Regain Eligibility You can regain eligibility for federal aid and state need based aid through self-correction or through the appeal process. Self-Correction Quantitative-Maximum Time Frame To regain eligibility, you must graduate and advance to a new career level (UG to GR etc.). You must also meet all other components of the Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy as outlined above. Once you have graduated and advanced to the a new career level, you will need to notify the Student Financial Aid Office by completed the SAP Self-Correction Form. Pace To regain eligibility, take courses at your own expense in a subsequent term or terms and meet the standards according to the cumulative credit hours completion ratio outlined above under the heading Pace as outlined in the policy. You must also meet all other components of the Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy as outlined above. Once you have taken the courses and earned passing grades, you will need to notify the Student Financial Aid Office by completing the SAP Self-Correction Form. GPA To regain eligibility, complete courses at your own expense at the University of Louisville and raise your cumulative GPA to at least a cumulative 2.0 official GPA for undergraduate students or 3.0 official GPA for graduate students and not be dismissed nor suspended from your academic program, as determined by the academic units’ policies. You must also meet all other components of the Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy as outlined above. Once you have corrected your GPA, you will need to notify the Student Financial Aid Office by completing the SAP Self-Correction Form. A current academic year FAFSA must be on file in order for SAP to be evaluated. Therefore, before an Self-Correct form is submitted please ensure your FAFSA is complete. The FAFSA can be completed at www.fafsa.gov. In all instances, you will be notified through U of L email as to the results. Monitoring the Status of Your Self-Correction Form It may take up to 15 business days to process your form once it is received by the Student Financial Aid Office. You can monitor the status of your submitted form on your Ulink To Do List. If a decision has not been made by the time your bill is due, it is your responsibility to pay your balance in full or discuss your payment options with the Bursar’s Office. Below is a listing of the potential Self-Correction Form Statuses: In-Progress: Your form has been received but not yet reviewed or processed. Approved: Your Self-Correction form has been approved. You must continue to meet all SAP requirements. Denied: Based on the information submitted, you do not meet the requirements for self-correction of SAP. You are not eligible to receive federal financial aid or state need-based aid. If you intend to remain enrolled at the University of Louisville, you must pay your bill with other sources. Please read the information below for your options to submit a SAP appeal. Appeal Process If you are determined ineligible for financial aid for failure to meet the University of Louisville’s SAP standards you have the right to make a written appeal to the Student Financial Aid Office. Instructions for Submitting an Appeal Complete the SAP appeal application. Attach a typed and signed letter that includes the following: a. a description of the unforeseen circumstance which may have prevented you from meeting the SAP standards, b. explain how the circumstances have been resolved, and c. explain how the circumstance(s) will not affect your future academic progress. Attach supporting documentation. Documentation of circumstances described in the letter must be included with the written appeal. Note: Additional documentation may be requested if additional information is needed to make an informed decision regarding your appeal. You will be notified via email if additional documentation is requested. A current academic year FAFSA must be on file in order for SAP to be evaluated. Therefore before an appeal is submitted ensure your FAFSA is complete. The FAFSA can be completed at www.fafsa.gov . ***Students held for Maximum Time Frame worksheet as part of the appeal, which is to be completed by the Academic Advisor.*** Monitoring the Status of Your Appeal It may take up to 15 business days for your appeal to be reviewed once it is submitted. Your appeal will be reviewed by the Student Financial Aid Office. All decisions are final. A second review can only be requested if you can provide new information and documentation that may have been omitted from your initial appeal. If a decision has not been made by the time your bill is due, it is your responsibility to pay your balance in full or discuss your payment options with the Bursar’s Office. You will receive notification of the decision made on your appeal via your University of Louisville email account. The status of your appeal can also be monitored via your ULink To-Do-List. Below is a listing of the potential appeal statuses: In-Progress: Your appeal has been received but not yet reviewed. Deferred: Your appeal has been reviewed but has been deferred for additional information. You will receive an email detailing the additional information or documentation needed. The Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (pdf) should be printed and submitted as a coversheet. Approved: Your appeal has been approved, and you are on SAP probation for one semester. At the end of your probation semester, you must have corrected your SAP issue(s) and be meeting all SAP standards, or if placed on an academic plan, you must be meeting the requirements specified in your plan. You will be placed on an SAP plan if it has been determined you will not be able to correct your SAP issue(s) in one semester. You will receive an email outlining your SAP plan. A SAP plan will ensure you will be able to meet SAP standards by a specific point in time. Denied: Your appeal was not approved based on the information you provided. You are not eligible to receive federal financial aid or state need-based aid. If you intend to remain enrolled at the University of Louisville, you must pay your bill with other sources. If an appeal is approved, you will be placed on probation for one semester. Your SAP will be evaluated at the end of the probation semester to ensure you are is still meeting the appropriate requirements. If at that time the standards are not being met, a SAP hold will be placed back on your account, and any federal aid and state need-based grant aid awarded for semesters beyond the probationary semester will be canceled. Limit of appeals There is no limit on the number of appeals you can submit. The Student Financial Aid Office uses professional judgment to review appeals on an individual case-by-case basis to evaluate the information submitted by you for each appeal. Previous appeals are reviewed to compare information previously submitted. Free Adobe PDF Reader © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville