Skip to content UofL Student Activities Board We Make It Happen About Committees Events Upcoming Events Past Events Floyd Theater Student Resources Contact Search for: UofL Student Activities Board We Make It Happen Elementor #3552 5877 Total Event Attendance 29 Total Number of Events 22 Total Number of Members 7 Number of Committees - JOIN THE FAMILY - Director Applications: Feb 22 – Mar 10 Board Applications: Mar 3 – Mar 17 Get Involved - UPCOMING EVENTS - Rollin’ In Love Cardinal Commute | February 16 Chadwick Boseman Tribute | February 16 – March 3 More Events - UNCENSORED PODCAST - UNCENSORED, the podcast, is brought to you by the Student Activities Board’s Diversity Committee at the University of Louisville. Lilah Kahloon (chair) and De’Asia Beard (vice-chair) feature their fellow students as guests, to provide an open and honest dialogue about all things diversity and inclusion on UofL’s campus, in our greater Louisville community, and beyond. Spring 2021 episodes streaming NOW! She's the Woman. featuring Elena Nuñez bySAB Diversity Committee We are thrilled to present to you our final episode of the semester! Our guest closing out this “season” of UNCENSORED is Elena Nuñez, a junior studying marketing, and sports administration. Elena has recently been apart of founding the first chapter of Gamma Phi Omega at the University of Louisville, which will mark the first Latina-oriented sorority on our campus. She discusses her experience founding and acting as VP for this chapter of Gamma Phi Omega, including what helping to create this sisterhood for generations of women to come has meant to her. She also discusses her future career goals, and how she was able to find the area in sports administration she feels most passionate about. Together, we discuss the importance of universities having inclusive spaces for all of their students, the frustrations that can come when it is up to us to work to create these spaces when they are not there, and more. Be sure to follow and support Gamma Phi Omega on their social media linked below! We hope you have enjoyed UNCENSORED this semester – thank you so much for listening! Follow Gamma Phi Omega on Instagram and Twitter: @gphiouofl Like Gamma Phi Omega on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/gphiouofl/ She's the Woman. featuring Elena Nuñez April 1, 2021 SAB Diversity Committee Put in the Work? Make Them Run You a Check. featuring Afi Tagnedji March 25, 2021 SAB Diversity Committee It All Comes Back to the Crown. featuring Gabrielle Mabra March 12, 2021 SAB Diversity Committee MEDICINE. featuring Zoha Mian October 29, 2020 SAB Diversity Committee #SAYHERNAME. featuring Ashanti Scott October 22, 2020 SAB Diversity Committee PRIDE. featuring Eli and Madison October 14, 2020 SAB Diversity Committee Search Results placeholder Previous Episode Show Episodes List Next Episode Show Podcast Information @ Copyright 2020 University of Louisville Student Activities Board | All Rights Reserved - Springy Theme by : Template Sell Instagram Facebook Twitter