Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Dean of Students Navigation Home Students Code of Student Conduct Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities ConcernCenter Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Kognito Training Recognized Student Organizations Student Awards Student Government Association Student Policies and Procedures StudentsStudents Dropdown Toggle Code of Student Conduct Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities ConcernCenter Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Kognito Training Recognized Student Organizations Student Awards Student Government Association Student Policies and Procedures Faculty and Staff Absence Notification Classroom Disruption Policy Compassionate Withdrawal Policy Harold Adams Award Helping Students in Distress Kognito Training QPR Training Response Guide for Difficult Student Situations Student Care Team Faculty and StaffFaculty and Staff Dropdown Toggle Absence Notification Classroom Disruption Policy Compassionate Withdrawal Policy Harold Adams Award Helping Students in Distress Kognito Training QPR Training Response Guide for Difficult Student Situations Student Care Team Campus Resources Community Policies Persona Non Grata Speech and Distribution of Literature Community PoliciesCommunity Policies Dropdown Toggle Persona Non Grata Speech and Distribution of Literature How to Get Help Absence Notification Anonymous Reporting Form Community Resources Compassionate Withdrawal Policy ConcernCenter Disciplinary (Conduct) Records Check Report a Safety or Hazard Concern Reporting a Student Concern Student Advocate Student Complaint Procedure Student Emergency Fund Student Grievance Student Sexual Misconduct Policy How to Get HelpHow to Get Help Dropdown Toggle Absence Notification Anonymous Reporting Form Community Resources Compassionate Withdrawal Policy ConcernCenter Disciplinary (Conduct) Records Check Report a Safety or Hazard Concern Reporting a Student Concern Student Advocate Student Complaint Procedure Student Emergency Fund Student Grievance Student Sexual Misconduct Policy About Us Organizational Chart Staff Directory About UsAbout Us Dropdown Toggle Organizational Chart Staff Directory Code of Student Conduct 2021-2022 (PDF) Process Flowchart PDF Reader Home / Students / Code of Student Conduct Code of Student Conduct 2021-2022 University of Louisville 1. Coverage The Code of Student Conduct ("The Code") is the University's policy regarding non-academic misconduct of students and student organizations. Academic dishonesty is not covered by this Code, but rather falls within the authority of the individual academic units of the University. Students have the responsibility to follow all regulations outlined in this policy. 2. Rationale The primary purpose for the Code in the University setting is to respond to incidents of non-academic misconduct in a way that is developmentally sound and which creates an environment in which all members of the academic community can live, work, and learn together. The Code is designed to provide educational guidance to those choosing to develop into good citizens and, at the same time, to respond appropriately to behavior which may be inconsistent with university policies. Students voluntarily choose to become a member of the University of Louisville community. Students choosing to be a member of this academic community signifies to others that the student is committed to adhering to the Code. Criminal and civil codes are undesirable models for student conduct codes. Unlike society, the University of Louisville is a voluntary association of scholars who demand and deserve a positive and special learning environment, as well as an approach for enforcing the community's standards. The University of Louisville is a community dedicated to the principles of free expression in which diverse views are encouraged and embraced. While the expression of an idea or point of view may be offensive or inflammatory to some, it is not necessarily a violation of the Code. The University values the open exchange of ideas, and the expression of controversial ideas and differing views is a vital part of the University’s mission. Opinions that may be unpopular and/or contrary to the University's values and objectives, but do not otherwise violate policy, will not be sanctioned. 3. Interpretation of Code The University's Code of Student Conduct is set forth in writing in order to give students general notice of non-academic prohibited conduct. The Code should be read broadly and is not designed to define non-academic misconduct in exhaustive terms. The Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students ("DOS") or designee is the final authority in defining and interpreting the Code of Student Conduct and conduct procedures. The University reserves the right to amend the Code of Student Conduct at any time. 4. Inherent Authority and Jurisdiction The University reserves the right to take necessary and appropriate action to protect the safety and well-being of the campus community. The Code applies to incidents that take place on University premises or at University-sponsored activities. Additionally, the Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students or designee may determine that acts prohibited by the Code but not committed on University premises may be grounds for disciplinary action. Such action will be taken if a student or student organization has acted in a way that substantially interferes with or endangers the University community, or behavior with significant potential to disrupt the educational environment. Such acts include, but are not limited to, drug trafficking, hazing, serious allegations of failing to comply with pandemic public health guidelines, and acts or threats of violence against persons. The Code may also be applied to conduct online, via email, or other electronic medium. Students and student organizations should be aware that online postings such as blogs, web postings, chats, and social networking sites are in the public sphere and are not private. These postings may subject a student and/or student organization to allegations of conduct violations if information posted online violates the Code. Each student is responsible for their conduct from the time of application for admission through the actual awarding of a degree. This includes, but is not limited to, alleged conduct which may occur during the application process, before classes begin or after classes end, as well as during the academic year and during periods between terms of actual enrollment. Any member of the University of Louisville community, or visitor, may report an alleged violation of non-academic misconduct against a student or student organization. The Dean of Students Office may also independently investigate information concerning alleged student misconduct from any third-party or source, such as police and/or press reports, even where no formal complaint has been filed. Where serious misconduct is alleged to have been committed while the student is still enrolled but reported after the said student has graduated, the University may invoke these procedures. In these instances, should the individual be found responsible, the University may take appropriate action up to and including possible revocation of the individual’s degree. The University retains conduct jurisdiction over students who choose to take a leave of absence, withdraw, or have graduated for any misconduct that occurred prior to leave, withdrawal, or graduation. The Code will apply to a student's conduct even if the student withdraws from school while a conduct matter is pending. The Code of Student Conduct and the Title IX Student Sexual Misconduct Policy both prohibit sexual misconduct. When allegations of sexual misconduct do not meet the jurisdictional requirements of the Title IX Student Sexual Misconduct Policy, the Code of Student Conduct will apply. When the allegations of sexual misconduct do meet the jurisdictional requirements of the Title IX Student Sexual Misconduct Policy, any additional prohibited conduct as outlined in section 11 of the Code of Student Conduct may, at the discretion of the Assistant Dean of Students or designee, will be addressed through the applicable process set forth in the Title IX Student Sexual Misconduct Policy. The Title IX Coordinator in conjunction with the Deputy Title IX Coordinator will determine through which process a particular complaint is routed based on jurisdictional requirements of the Title IX Student Sexual Misconduct Policy. 5. Interim Administrative Authority The Vice President for Student Affairs and Dean of Students, or designee, may defer procedural due process and enforce an interim sanction(s), up to and including interim suspension. This action is taken to ensure the safety and well-being of members of the University community; preserve University property; ensure a student's own physical or emotional safety and wellbeing; and/or respond to a student/student organization who poses an ongoing threat of disruption of the normal operations of the University. Any student/student organization who has had interim action taken against the student/student organization will be afforded an administrative conduct meeting or a conduct hearing, as soon as it is practical. 6. Student Contact Information All students are responsible for maintaining their current address, phone number, and emergency contact information with the Registrar's Office or ULink. University email is the University’s primary means of communication with students. Students are responsible for all communication delivered to their University email address. 7. Violations of The Law and of The Code Students/student organizations may be accountable to both civil and criminal authorities and to the University for acts which constitute violations of law and of this Code. Additionally, individual members of Registered Student Organizations (RSOs) may be held accountable for code violations when they participate in any violation committed by the registered student organization. A respondent of alleged violations is subject to the University disciplinary proceedings outlined in this Code during any pending criminal or civil proceedings, or of any other University proceedings, regarding the same conduct. Respondent(s) may not challenge the University disciplinary proceedings outlined in this Code on the grounds that criminal charges, civil actions, or other University proceedings regarding the same incident are pending or have been terminated, dismissed, reduced, or not yet adjudicated. Proceedings under this Code may be carried out prior to, simultaneously with, or following civil or criminal proceedings. The University will refer matters to federal and/or state authorities when appropriate. Disciplinary holds may be placed on students' records at any point in the disciplinary process to assure compliance with sanctions, pending the resolution of disciplinary matters, or a formal hearing. Students who are dismissed from the University for non-academic misconduct are responsible for all tuition and fees. Students involved in a conduct matter are expected to communicate directly with the University on their own behalf in regards to any questions, and/or concerns. 8. Pandemic Public Health Guidelines and Expectations As a Community of Care, we are Accountable to a Team (first and second of our Cardinal Principles), we care for ourselves and for one another, and we are taking measures to promote a safe and healthy environment that make UofL a great place to learn, work, and invest. In coordination with federal, state, local, UofL, and pandemic public health guidance, students must adhere to pandemic public health guidelines. Our campus community must adhere to these guidelines to help mitigate the spread of COVID-19. The guidelines may change and students are expected to check their UofL email to be aware of updated guidance. Individuals not adhering to pandemic public health guidelines may be denied access to campus facilities, classrooms, offices, programs, residence facilities, activities, and services. The University may take conduct action against a student(s) or student organization(s) who fail to follow federal, state, UofL, local and/or pandemic public health guidelines as established and distributed by the University. 9. Standard of Proof The standard of proof for incidents of non-academic misconduct is a preponderance of evidence. Preponderance of evidence means that the evidence supports that a given allegation is more likely to be true than not true. Within the Code of Student Conduct, the complainant bears the burden of establishing a violation of the Code by a preponderance of relevant and admissible evidence. The technical rules of evidence applicable to civil and/or criminal cases shall not apply when resolving incidents as outlined by this Code. 10. Definitions a. The term "advisor" means an individual who may attend an administrative conduct meeting or conduct board hearing to confer, support, and/or give advice to the complainant or respondent. b. The term "complainant" means a student, employee, non-affiliated individual, or student organization who submits a report alleging that a student or student organization violated the Code of Student Conduct. c. The term "consent" means freely given agreement by a person with capacity to engage in the sexual activity at issue. A person who is incapacitated (as defined below), lacks capacity and cannot give effective consent. In order for individuals to engage in sexual activity of any type, all involved individuals must consent to such activity prior to and throughout any sexual encounter. Consent to one sexual act does not constitute consent to any other such acts; Parties to a sexual encounter must ensure that they have the affirmative consent of the other individual (s) involved for each sexual act. Affirmative consent may manifest itself differently depending on the context. "No" always means "no." Words or perceptible actions other than an explicit "yes" may be sufficient to indicate consent, depending on the totality of the circumstances of each case. Regardless of the circumstances, consent to any form of sexual activity can be withdrawn at any time, by any party to a sexual encounter, at any point during the encounter. This is true regardless of what sexual acts (or with whom) the individual (s) in question may have engaged in or agreed to previously, and regardless of the nature of the relationship between the parties. d. The term "days" means business days as defined by the University academic calendar. e. The term "destructive device" means any explosive, incendiary, or poison bomb, grenade, mine, rocket, missile, or similar device and includes the unassembled components from which such a device can be made. f. The term "distribution" means giving, selling, or exchanging. g. The term "group" means a number of persons who are associated with each other, but who have not met the University requirements for recognition as an organization. h. The term "incapacitation" means a state in which a person cannot make rational decisions as to whether or not to engage in sexual activity because the person lacks the ability to give knowing consent (i.e., to understand the "who, what, when, where, why, or how" of the sexual interaction). A person may be incapacitated due to mental disability, being asleep, unconsciousness, involuntary physical restraint, from the effect of alcohol or other drugs, or because they are below minimum age of consent in the state where the sexual activity occurred. It is important to note that while a person can be incapacitated by intoxication, intoxication (in which case a person is under the influence of alcohol or drugs) does not constitute Incapacitation unless it renders the person unable to consent as described herein. In every case, the facts are evaluated to assess whether the person in question was capable of providing consent, and whether a reasonable person in the parties’ positions would perceive the person as being capable or incapable of providing consent. i. The term "intentionally" means a conscious objective to engage in the described conduct; intoxication is not a defense to a charge of intentional misconduct. j. The term "notify in writing" means to mail written notice to a student's most recent address of record, send electronic notification to the student's official University email account, or provide a written notice to the student in person. k. The term "organization" means a number of persons who are associated with each other and who have complied with the University requirements for recognition. l. The term "party or parties" means complainant or respondent and is signified by the singular "party, and both are signified by the plural "parties." m. The term "reckless" means conduct which could reasonably be expected to create a substantial risk of harm to a person(s) or property, or which would be likely to result in interference with normal University or University-sponsored activities. n. The term "respondent" means any student or registered student organization reported to be the perpetrator of conduct that could constitute a violation of the Code of Student Conduct. o. For purposes of the Code of Student Conduct, the term "student" means any person admitted or matriculating at the University in any student status, including but not limited to a degree granting program, consortia program, study abroad, professional studies, online education, or any other University sponsored or sanctioned program. Persons also to be considered "students" under the Code include, persons who withdraw after allegedly violating the Code, who are currently serving a period of suspension, who are not officially enrolled for a particular term but who have a continuing relationship with the University, who have been notified of acceptance or persons who are living in University residence halls, although not enrolled in this institution, and during the University application processes. p. The term "University premises" means buildings, grounds owned, leased, operated, controlled, or supervised by the University. q. The term "University-sponsored activity" means any activity, on or off campus, which is partially or fully funded or supervised by the University. r. The term "University official" includes any person employed by or contracted to provide services for the University of Louisville, performing assigned administrative or professional responsibilities. s. The term "University resources" means supplies, equipment, or technology services (e.g., computers, disk storage, software, voice communications [local or long distance,] network) which are owned, leased, operated, controlled, supervised, or provided by the University via University supplied resources. These resources may be funded in part by state funds. t. The terms "University," "campus," and "institution" mean the University of Louisville. u. The term "week" means five (5) business days as defined by the University academic calendar. v. The term "witness" means an individual who has information regarding the facts of the case. The respondent and complainant are able to submit witness names and contact information for the incident. The witness(es) may be contacted by the Dean of Students Office for their statement. 11. Prohibited Conduct Any student found to have committed or to have attempted to commit the following prohibited behavior is subject to the conduct sanctions outlined in Section 12: a. Physical Harm. Intentionally or recklessly causing physical harm to another person. b. Weapons. Unauthorized use, possession, or storage of any weapon, ammunition, or realistic replica of a weapon on University premises, in University affiliated properties, or at a University-sponsored activity unless an exemption is allowed in accordance with the University’s weapons policy. The term "weapon" means any object or substance designed to inflict a wound, cause injury or incapacitate including, but not limited to, any weapon from which a shot readily capable of producing death or serious injury may be discharged; any knife other than an ordinary pocket knife; sharp tools such as axes; billy or nightstick; blackjack or slapjack; nunchaku karate stick; shuriken or death star; and artificial knuckles made from metal, plastic, or similar hard material. (https://louisville.edu/policies/policies-and-procedures/pageholder/pol-deadly-weapons) c. False Report. Intentionally initiating or causing any false report, warning, or threat of fire, explosion, or other emergency. d. Disruption. Intentionally or recklessly disrupting or interfering in normal University functions and processes, University-sponsored activities, or any function, process or activity on University premises or affiliated housing property including, but not limited to the following: studying; learning; teaching; public speaking; meetings; research; approved demonstrations; University business operations; processes or administration; or fire, police, or other emergency services. e. Sanction Violation. Knowingly violating the terms of any disciplinary sanction imposed in accordance with this policy. f. Fire Safety. Intentionally or recklessly misusing or damaging fire or other safety equipment. Causing a fire which damages University, affiliated housing, or personal property and/or causes injury. Failure to evacuate a University-controlled building or buildings in which a University-sponsored activity or function is taking place during a fire alarm. g. Controlled Substances. Unauthorized distribution, possession, or use of any controlled substance or illegal drug, as defined by the Kentucky Revised Statutes, Chapter 218A. h. Underage Consumption. Providing alcoholic beverages to individuals under 21 years of age, or possession or use of alcoholic beverages by individuals under 21 years of age. i. Open Container. Unauthorized possession of an open container of an alcoholic beverage. j. Alcohol Distribution. Unauthorized distribution of alcoholic beverages or possession of alcoholic beverages for purposes of distribution. k. Misrepresentation. Misrepresenting information or furnishing false information to a University official. l. Falsification. Forging, altering, misrepresenting, counterfeiting, or misusing any University document, identification/authentication method/mechanism or access device or process. m. Expression Interference. Intentionally and substantially interfering with the freedom of expression of others. n. Theft. Theft or misuse of property or of services on University premises, at University-sponsored activities, or from University organization(s) or group(s), or knowing possession of stolen property or use of stolen services on University premises, at University-sponsored activities, or from University organization(s) or group(s). o. Destruction of Property. Intentionally or recklessly destroying, damaging or altering property or the property of others. p. Failure to Comply. Failure to comply with the reasonable directions of University official(s) acting in the performance of their duties. q. Violation of Laws or Policy. Violation of any government laws or ordinances, or violation of any university policy, rule, and/or regulation published in hard copy, available electronically on the university website, or approved by University Officials. r. Unauthorized Presence. Unauthorized presence on or use of University premises, facilities, or property; including climbing inside or outside campus buildings or structures. s. Destructive Devices. Unauthorized use, possession, or storage of fireworks; destructive device; incendiary, dangerous, or noxious devices or materials; or chemicals that could pose a health risk, either by themselves or in conjunction with other chemicals. t. Threatening. Threatening or endangering the health, well-being, property, or safety of any person(s). u. Sexual Assault. Any forcible and non-forcible sex offenses to include rape, sodomy, sexual assault with an object, fondling, incest, and statutory rape. "Rape" means the carnal knowledge of a person, without the consent of the victim, including instances where the victim is incapable of giving consent because of age or because of temporary or permanent mental or physical incapacity. There is "carnal knowledge" if there is the slightest penetration of the vagina or penis by the sex organ of the other person. Attempted Rape is included. "Sodomy" means oral or anal sexual intercourse with another person, without the consent of the victim, including instances where the victim is incapable of giving consent because of age or because of temporary or permanent mental or physical incapacity. "Sexual assault with an object" means using an object or instrument to unlawfully penetrate, however slightly, the genital or anal opening of the body of another person, without the consent of the victim, including instances where the victim is incapable of giving consent because of age or because of temporary or permanent mental or physical incapacity. An "object" or "instrument" is anything used by the offender other than the offender’s genitalia. "Fondling" means the touching of the private body parts of another person for the purpose of sexual gratification, without the consent of the victim, including instances where the victim is incapable of giving consent because of age or because of temporary or permanent mental or physical incapacity. "Incest" means sexual intercourse between persons who are related to each other within the degrees wherein marriage is prohibited by the law of the jurisdiction. "Statutory rape" means sexual intercourse with a person who is under the statutory age of consent as defined by the law of jurisdiction. v. Sexual Harassment. Conduct on the basis of sex that satisfies one or more of the following: An employee of the University conditions the provision of an aid, benefit or service of the University on an individual’s participation in unwelcome sexual conduct (often referred to as quid pro quo); Unwelcome conduct determined by a reasonable person to be so severe, pervasive, and objectively offensive that it effectively denies a person equal access to the University’s education program or activity; or Sexual Assault, Dating Violence, Domestic Violence or Stalking (otherwise defined herein). w. Hazing. Engagement, encouragement, or facilitation, by any organization or by any individual on behalf of an organization or group (recognized or not recognized by the university), or visitor within the University of Louisville community in any action or situation which recklessly or intentionally endangers mental or physical health; creates an atmosphere of servitude; involves dangerous, demeaning, or ridiculing activities; involves forced consumption of alcohol, drugs or other object; for the purpose of initiation, admission into, affiliation with, or as a condition of continued membership in, a group or organization. The express or implied consent of the individual will not be a defense. x. Indecent Exposure. Intentionally exposing genitals, buttocks, or breasts in a public place without University authorization. y. Public Intoxication. Appearing in a public place manifestly under the influence of a controlled or other intoxicating substance. z. Misuse of Technology. Intentional or reckless interference with or disruption of University technology services or resources (e.g., computer disk storage, data, software, voice communications [local or long distance,] network), unauthorized use, misuse, abuse, alteration, disclosure or destruction of University technology services or resources, improper access to University technology services/resources, or violation of intellectual property (e.g., copyright) rights or restrictions of others. aa. False Complaint. Intentionally filing a false complaint under this Code. bb. Aiding or Abetting. Aiding or abetting any prohibited conduct described in section 11. cc. Disruptive Demonstration. Participating in, leading, or inciting a demonstration, riot, or activity that disrupts the normal operations of the University and/or infringes on the rights of other members of the University community. (Section 7. of the Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities outlines a student’s responsibilities as it relates to demonstrations) dd. Voyeurism. Viewing or spying on a person engaged in intimate behaviors without that person’s knowledge or consent, or the transmitting, recording, or photographing the image or voice of another person without that person’s knowledge or consent, while in an environment that is considered private or where there is an expectation of privacy, such as a residence or bathroom. ee. Deliberate Incapacitation. Intentional constraint or incapacitation of another, without that person's knowledge or consent, or without reasonable explanation. ff. Failure to Report. Failing to report immediately any serious health or safety risk to the police, the Dean of Students Office or other appropriate University personnel. gg. Stalking. Engaging in a course of conduct directed at a specific person that would cause a reasonable person to fear for their safety or the safety of others or suffer substantial emotional distress. Stalking behaviors my include persistent patterns of leaving or sending the person(s) unwanted items or gifts ranging from seemingly romantic to bizarre, following the person(s), or lying in wait for the person(s), harassing the person(s) via the internet or other forms of online and/or electronic communications (i.e. cyberstalking), or interferes with a person’s property. hh. Driving Under the Influence. Driving under the influence of alcohol or other controlled substance(s). ii. Harassment. Engaging in conduct that is so severe, pervasive, and objectively offensive, and that so undermines and detracts from the person(s) educational experience or work environment, that the person(s) are effectively denied equal access to an institution’s resources and opportunities. jj. Dating Violence. Violence committed by a person (A) who is or has been in a social relationship of a romantic or intimate nature with the victim; (B) where existence of such a relationship shall be determined based on a consideration of the following factors: Whether or not a dating relationship exists is determined (1) by the length of the relationship, (2) the type of relationship; and (3) the frequency of interaction between the person involved in the relationship. This includes threats, assault, property damage, and violence or threat of violence to one’s self or to pets of the romantic or intimate partner when used as a method of coercion, control, punishment, intimidation, or revenge. kk. Domestic Violence. Violence committed by a current or former spouse or intimate partner of the victim, by a person with whom the victim shares a child in common, by a person who is cohabitating with or has cohabitated with the victim as a spouse or intimate partner, by a person similarly situated to a spouse of the victim under the domestic or family violence laws of the jurisdiction receiving grant monies, or by any other person against an adult or youth victim who is protected from that person’s acts under the domestic or family violence laws of the jurisdiction. ll. Retaliation. Action taken by respondent or an action taken by a third party on behalf of a party against any person because that person has reported a violation related to sexual misconduct or because that person has filed a complaint, served as a witness, assisted, or participated in a sexual misconduct investigation or proceeding. This includes action taken against a bystander who intervened to stop or attempted to stop sexual misconduct. Retaliation includes intimidating, threatening, or coercing an individual because of the individual’s complaint or participation. mm. Sexual Exploitation. Taking of non-consensual or abusive sexual advantage of another by a person(s), or the inducement of another person to do the same; or for one’s own advantage or benefit; or to benefit or advantage anyone other than the one being exploited. nn. Child Pornography. Possessing, producing, and/or distributing any depiction of sexually explicit material involving a minor (persons less than 18 years old) including but not limited to any photograph, film, video, picture, or computer or computer-generated image or picture whether made or produced by electronic, mechanical, or other means. This prohibited conduct also includes intentionally viewing child pornography. oo. Fraud. Attempting to defraud by means of deception, bad checks, forged or stolen credit cards, ID cards, procurement cards, possession or use of counterfeit currency, and or/other means. Fraud may also include deception related to payroll. pp. Endangerment. Intentionally or recklessly causing any act that endangers the health or safety of an individual. qq. Failure to Comply with UofL Public Health Guidelines. Failing to comply with public health guidelines established for a pandemic. 12. Student Complaint Process The general responsibility for non-academic misconduct is vested in the Office of Student Affairs and delegated to the Dean of Students Office for administration of the Code of Student Conduct. If the incident occurred in Campus Housing the student may be referred to the appropriate Campus Housing staff member. The Dean of Students Office in consultation with Campus Housing staff will determine if an incident that occurred in Campus Housing should be resolved by the Dean of Students Office. Anyone choosing to report an alleged incident of nonacademic misconduct, as specified in Section 11, may submit such report in writing to the Dean of Students Office. The Dean of Students Office will determine whether any action should be taken in response to the reported incident. The Dean of Students Office staff may review and investigate any complaint to determine whether it appears to violate the Code and will decide whether to proceed by an administrative conduct meeting with the respondent, conduct board hearing, or alternative dispute resolution. A complaint that is frivolous, that fails to state facts that constitute a violation of the Code, or that is not timely, may be dismissed by the Dean of Students, or designee, after an initial review. If the complaint is not dismissed or resolved through alternative dispute resolution (see Section 12.1, Alternative Dispute Resolution), the conduct process will proceed through an administrative conduct meeting or conduct board hearing (see Sections 12.2-12.4). 12.1 Alternative Dispute Resolution Process Alternative dispute resolution is a process by which the parties may collaboratively use to resolve an issue that has been reported to the Dean of Students Office collaboratively with the other person(s) involved instead of pursuing the matter through the conduct process. It is within the discretion of the Dean of Students Office staff to determine if alternative dispute resolution is an appropriate process for resolution in a given case. 12.2 Student Conduct Procedures The Dean of Students Office staff may review all available information with the respondent and complainant, gather information from witnesses, and determine whether or not there is enough information to charge the student/student organization with a violation(s) of the Code of Student Conduct. If the university determines there is not enough information to charge the respondent, the complaint is dismissed. If the university determines there is enough information to charge the respondent, and the complainant (or in limited circumstances the University) chooses to move forward with the conduct process, the respondent is notified of the charges. At that time, one of two things may happen: 1) an administrative conduct meeting will be scheduled with the respondent if the violation would result in a sanction less severe than suspension or expulsion. However, the Dean of Students Office staff may decide that a conduct hearing is warranted; or 2) a conduct hearing will be scheduled for the respondent if the violation may result in a severe sanction such as expulsion, suspension, revocation of admission or degree, or withholding of a degree. If, in appropriate cases, the complainant and respondent agree to move forward with the alternative dispute resolution process, the alternative dispute resolution process will stand in lieu of the administrative conduct meeting or conduct board hearing process. In the event that an administrative conduct meeting is scheduled, the respondent will be notified in writing of the charges for violating the Code and given information about the conduct process including the date, time, and location of the administrative conduct meeting. An administrative conduct meeting is between the respondent and the Dean of Students Office staff. The meeting is designed to provide the respondent an opportunity to give their account of the incident, to think critically, reflect on the behavior and decisions that led to this situation, and to discuss alternative options for the future. If the Dean of Students Office staff determines that the student violated the Code, a sanction may be imposed during the meeting. If the respondent fails to appear at an administrative conduct meeting, the meeting may be held in their absence, with determination of violation(s) and sanction(s), if any, being imposed. 12.3 Conduct Board Hearing Procedures A conduct board hearing will take place for all matters for which revocation of admission or degree, withholding a degree, suspension, or expulsion are possible outcomes. When incident(s) occur that involve more than one respondent or multiple complainants, the Dean of Students Office staff may permit the hearing concerning each student to be conducted jointly or separately. In the case that the person reporting the alleged misconduct is not serving as the complainant, the university may serve as the complainant. The respondent(s) may waive their right to a conduct board hearing and may elect to have their case resolved through an administrative conduct meeting. However, if the respondent(s) waives their right to a hearing, the full range of sanctions authorized by this Code may be imposed, and the right to appeal is forfeited. When a hearing regarding an alleged incident of non-academic misconduct is scheduled, the respondent, the complainant, or the person reporting the alleged misconduct will be given five (5) days written notice of the charges alleged against the respondent and the date, time and location of the hearing. A representative for the Dean of Students Office will serve as the hearing official and facilitate the hearing. The hearing will be informal and state and federal rules of evidence will not apply. The hearing will be closed to everyone except the hearing official(s), appropriate Dean of Students Office and/or University staff, respondent, complainant, advisor to the respondent, advisor to the complainant, and witnesses during the actual time of their participation. The hearing will be recorded for review purposes. Any record of the hearing will remain the property of the university. No other recording(s) of the hearing will be permitted. The University reserves the right to have University counsel present at any hearing to serve as an advisor to the hearing board or hearing official. The hearing official and legal counsel may consult anytime during the hearing. A student conduct hearing board will be utilized in all conduct hearings. The hearing board will be composed of three members chosen from a pool of trained students, faculty, and staff who serve as members of the student conduct hearing council. The hearing board will hear information and make recommendations regarding findings and sanctions (if any) to be imposed, to the Assistant Dean of Students or designee. Findings will be based on information contained in the hearing record as provided by the complainant and the respondent. Board recommendations will be based on a majority vote. The respondent and the complainant, if any, have the opportunity to: Be present at the hearing. However, if the respondent and/or complainant fail to appear for the hearing, the hearing may be held in their absence(s). Present information by witness. It is requested that witnesses’ submit statements two (2) days prior to the hearing. The witness statement will be reviewed by the hearing officer to verify that the statement was written by the witness. The hearing officer will review witness statements for relevant information. The hearing officer will determine whether the statement(s) is appropriate for inclusion in the hearing. It is the responsibility of the respondent and the complainant to notify their witness(es) of the date, time, and location of the hearing. If witnesses fail to appear, the hearing will be held in their absence and their statement will not be presented to the hearing board as evidence. Neither character witnesses, nor information regarding behavior not relevant to the incident in question, will be considered in a hearing. Bring one advisor to the hearing. The advisor may not serve as a witness in the hearing. The advisor may not participate in examination of witnesses, presentation of materials, and/or presentation of information to the conduct hearing board unless specifically asked to do so by the hearing official. The advisor may confer and give advice to their advisee in a quiet, confidential and non-disruptive manner. The date, time, and location of the hearing will not be scheduled, postponed, and/or rescheduled due to an advisor’s availability. An advisor may not appear in lieu of the respondent or complainant. Question all evidence and information, as well as witnesses and/or the opposing party or parties. Due process permits that parties may be allowed to conduct direct questioning of the opposing party and any witness; however, concerns for personal safety, well-being, and/or fears of confrontation between the parties or between the parties and, other witness(es) during the hearing may nonetheless be accommodated by, e.g., providing a visual screen between the questioner and the person being questioned; permitting participation by phone or videophone; or other appropriate means as determined by the hearing official. Request a pre-hearing meeting prior to the conduct hearing. To not speak or answer any question during a student conduct hearing. Refusal to do so is not considered an admission of responsibility for an alleged violation; neither, however, is a person remaining silent entitled to have the hearing panel draw inferences favorable to the witness’s or any party’s position based on that silence. All procedural questions are subject to the final decision of the hearing official. 12.4 Hearing Decision Within three (3) days after the date of the hearing, the hearing official on behalf of the hearing board will make a written recommendation to the Assistant Dean of Students or designee. The Assistant Dean of Students or designee will review the recommendation and will issue a written decision within ten (10) days after the date of the issuance of the hearing board’s written recommendations. The written decision for the respondent will include information regarding: the finding(s) (if any), the sanction(s) (if any), and the appeal procedures. The complainant will receive notification of the hearing decision in conduct cases involving sexual misconduct or crimes of violence. The written outcome letter for the complainant (for cases involving sexual misconduct or crimes of violence) will include: the finding(s) (if any), the sanction(s) (if any) imposed that directly relate to the complainant, the appeal procedures, and any other steps the institution has taken to eliminate any hostile environment that may have been created and prevent its recurrence. 13. Conduct Sanctions If it is determined at the administrative conduct meeting or conduct hearing that the respondent has committed conduct prohibited by Section 11, the Dean of Students Office staff will impose (an) appropriate sanction(s) which may include, but may not be limited to, the following: Reprimand: Notice of violation of specified regulations and warning that further such conduct may result in a more severe disciplinary action. Conduct Restrictions: Limiting of certain privileges or practices of the individual(s) or organization(s) involved in the prohibited conduct for a designated period of time. This may include but is not limited to the following: status and participation in any and all organized University activities; restriction of use of university facilities, services and resources; or restriction of contact with specific students, faculty and staff. Conduct Probation: Imposition of conditions or restrictions on the individual(s) or organization(s) involved, with warning of more severe action if further infractions occur (or if probation is violated). Fines: Fines may be imposed. Restitution: Compensation for loss, damage, or injury. This may take the form of appropriate service and/or monetary or material replacement. Discretionary Sanctions: Counseling, residence hall relocation, limited access to campus and/or affiliated locations, work assignments essays, service requirements, educational assignments, or other related assignments. Residence Hall Suspension: Separation of the student from University housing or affiliated housing for a period of time. Conditions for readmission may be specified. Residence Hall Expulsion: Permanent separation of the student from University housing or affiliated housing. Conduct Suspension: Immediate exclusion from the University for a definite period of time, after which the student is eligible to return. Conditions for readmission may be specified. Conduct Expulsion: Immediate, permanent exclusion from the University subject only to readmission by the Dean of Students (DOS) or designee of the University as outlined in section 15. Revocation of Admission and/or Degree: Admission to or a degree awarded from the University may be revoked for fraud, misrepresentation, or other violation of University standards in obtaining the degree, or for other serious violations committed by a student prior to graduation. Degree revocation is subject to approval by the Board of Trustees. Withholding Degree: The University may withhold awarding a degree otherwise earned until the completion of the process set forth in this Code of Student Conduct, including the completion of all sanctions imposed, if any. Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR): A concept designed to not only address any violation of the Code but to also allow any affected parties a chance at satisfaction. Both respondent and affected students benefit from creating an atmosphere conducive to growth. This may include one or more of the following: restorative justice, conflict coaching, group circle sessions, and/or brief solution counseling. Prohibition of Future Enrollment: The student will not be able to continue any further education at the University. Persona Non Grata: A student, student organization, and/or person who is prohibited from being on University-owned or operated property for any reason. This restriction extends to all buildings, facilities, and grounds of the University of Louisville, any University sponsored activities or events on or off campus, as well as all affiliated properties (Clubhouse, Province, The Nine, The Retreat, The Quad, etc.). More than one of the sanctions listed above may be imposed for any single violation. Additionally, a student’s conduct record is cumulative. Therefore, increased sanctions may be assigned to take into consideration the student’s overall record of violations of all types, not just those of a similar type. Any student who was involved in non-academic disciplinary action that warranted separation from the University or revocation of degree will have a transcript insert sent with their transcript. See Transcript Insert Policy for more information. When a violation of this Code is determined to be motivated by intolerance based on race, ethnicity, age, religion, gender, sexual orientation, disability, or national origin, the sanction(s) imposed may be increased in severity. 13.1. Separation from the University In any case which results in separation from the University, withholding a degree, revoking a degree, or prohibiting future enrollment, the Dean of Students Office will notify the dean of the academic unit in which the student has been enrolled and other appropriate University officials. 13.2 Student Organizations Student organizations and their members are expected to follow the Code of Student Conduct. Student organizations and their officers may be held collectively or individually responsible for violations of the Code of Student Conduct. Conduct procedures for student organizations will be the same as other student procedures as outlined in section 12. In addition to the conduct sanctions outlined in section 13; student organizations may also face the following sanctions as necessary: Suspension of organizational recognition: Temporary removal of recognition. Revocation of organizational recognition: Permanent removal of recognition. Revocation of charter recognition. The appeal process for student organizations is listed in section 14.1 of the Code of Student Conduct. 14. Student Appeals The respondent may appeal a conduct hearing board decision in all cases. In cases that involve sexual misconduct or crimes of violence, the complainant and/or respondent may appeal the conduct hearing decision. Administrative conduct meeting decisions are not appealable. To initiate an appeal for a conduct hearing decision the individual must complete the Student Appeal Form. The purpose of an appeal is not to provide a second hearing for the case. The respondent and/or the complainant may request an appeal for one or all of the following reasons: whether the hearing was conducted fairly and in accordance with the procedures outlined in this Code of Student Conduct; whether there was sufficient information presented at the hearing to establish, by a preponderance of the evidence, that a violation of the prohibited conduct section occurred; whether the sanction(s) imposed was appropriate; whether there is new information that was not known to the person requesting the review at the time of the hearing and that, if presented at the hearing, would more likely than not have altered the hearing decision. Appeals must be completed by submitting the online Student Appeal Form to the Dean of Students or designee within ten (10) days after the issuance of the hearing decision of the Assistant Dean of Students or designee. In the case where the complainant is informed of the case outcome and an appeal is submitted by the complainant or respondent, the other party shall be given a copy of the appeal and an opportunity to respond within five (5) days of notification that an appeal has been submitted. The Dean of Students or designee will first review all requests for appeal to determine if the request meets the established criteria for appeal and are within the appeal filing timeline. If the respondent(s) do(es) not meet the established criteria for appeal or the appeal is not submitted within the allotted timeframe, the decision of the Assistant Dean of Students or designee will be the final decision of the University. 14.1 Student Organization Appeals The respondent may appeal a conduct hearing decision. In conduct hearings that involve sexual misconduct or crimes of violence, the complainant may also appeal the conduct hearing decision. To initiate an appeal, student organizations must complete the Student Organization Appeal Form. The respondent and/or complainant may request an appeal for one or all of the following reasons: whether the hearing was conducted fairly and in accordance with the procedures outlined in this Code of Student Conduct; whether there was sufficient information presented at the hearing that a violation of the prohibited conduct section occurred; whether the sanction(s) imposed was appropriate; whether there is new information that was not known to the person requesting the review at the time of the hearing and that, if presented at the hearing, would more than likely have altered the hearing decision. Appeals must be completed by submitting the online Student Organization Appeal Form to the Dean of Students or designee within ten (10) days after receiving the hearing decision of the Assistant Dean of Students or designee. The Dean of Students or designee will first review all requests for appeal to determine if the request meets the established criteria for appeal and are within the appeal filing timeline that is allotted. If the student organization does not meet the established criteria for appeal or does not appeal within the allotted timeframe, the decision of the Assistant Dean of Students or designee will be the final decision of the University. 14.2. Appeals Decision The Dean of Students or designee has the authority to: Uphold the hearing decision of the Assistant Dean of Students or designee, including the sanction(s) imposed. Alter the sanction imposed by the Assistant Dean of Students or designee by reducing or increasing the severity of the sanction(s). Remand the case to the Assistant Dean of Students or designee for further consideration. Reverse the hearing decision of the Assistant Dean of Students or designee. The decision of the Dean of Students or designee will be transmitted in writing to the respondent and to the Assistant Dean of Students or designee within fourteen (14) days after the receipt of the appeal. The complainant will only be notified of the appeal decision in conduct hearing appeals that involve sexual misconduct or crimes of violence. The decision of the Dean of Students or designee on all conduct hearing appeals is the final decision of the University. 15. Expulsion Review A student who has been expelled from the University may apply for special consideration for readmission after a period of not less than five (5) years. The former student must submit a written petition for readmission to the Office of the Student Affairs or designee. This written request must outline a strong justification for readmission. Additional pertinent documentation may also be required. The Dean of Students will review relevant information and make a final decision. Factors to be considered in review of such a petition will include, but not be limited to: The present demeanor of the petitioner, the conduct subsequent to the expulsion (documentation may be required), and/or the nature of the violation causing the expulsion and the severity of damage, injury, or harm that occurred. 16. Good Samaritan Consideration The health and safety of our students is of the highest priority. At times students may need immediate medical or other professional assistance. However, students may be reluctant to get help because of concerns that their own behavior may be a violation of the Code of Student Conduct. To minimize any hesitation students and/or student organizations may have in obtaining help due to these concerns, the University has enacted the following "good samaritan" provision. Although policy violations cannot be overlooked, the University will consider the positive impact of reporting an incident when determining the appropriate response for policy violations. In such cases, any possible negative consequences for the reporter of the incident should be evaluated against the possible negative consequences for the student who needed assistance. At a minimum, students and/or student organizations are encouraged to make an anonymous report that would put the student in need in touch with emergency care providers (Police, EMS). Examples where this policy would apply include: A student is reluctant to call an ambulance when a friend becomes unconscious following excessive consumption of alcohol because the reporting student is under the age of 21 and was also consuming alcohol. A student is reluctant to report that they have been sexually assaulted because the student has been consuming alcohol and is under the age of 21. For further information or for clarification of the Code of Student Conduct, please contact the Dean of Students Office, W301 Student Activities Center, University of Louisville (502) 852-5787. 17. Retention and Release of Conduct Records All records related to a student’s interaction with the Dean of Students Office are deemed educational records in accordance with university policy and the release of such records is governed by that policy. With the exception of unresolved cases or those involving suspension, expulsion, or revocation of or withholding of a degree, student conduct records may be destroyed seven years from the day of the reported information and/or finding. Approved August 13, 2021 Effective August 13, 2021 Code of Student Conduct 2021-2022 (PDF) Process Flowchart PDF Reader A Department of STUDENT AFFAIRS Dean of Students Office Student Activities Center, Suite W301 2100 South Floyd Street University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Office Hours M-F 9:00am to 5:00 pm Phone tel (502) 852-5787 fax (502) 852-1429 Email dos@louisville.edu Social Media Twitter Flickr Facebook YouTube © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville