[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Graduate Certificate in Organizational Change in Higher Education /-/images/pages/gcoched/2010_GC-OCHEd_1596x740.jpg Lead change within your university gcoched gcoched-program-page organic ../../programs/certificate-programs/online-graduate-certificate-in-organizational-change-in-higher-education?tab=apply Erin Elrod Online Enrollment Counselor Online Graduate Certificate in Organizational Change in Higher Education The online graduate certificate in Organizational Change in Higher Ed is designed to prepare postsecondary administrators, staff and faculty members for professional practice related to understanding and managing organizational change within their institutions. Offered by the College of Education and Human Development at the University of Louisville, the Organizational Change in Higher Ed graduate certificate will help you gain the expertise needed to understand, manage, and influence organizational change in a college or university setting. Prepare for leadership by developing your skills in data-driven decision making, managing resources and budgets, leading efforts for inclusion and equity, and fostering change in higher education. Students will also learn to implement, assess, and improve the systems and practices that support teaching and learning. Overview Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid This certificate does not qualify for financial aid. Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Highlights Gain the skills you need to help your organization effectively navigate and enact change. Learn to identify administrative challenges facing universities today and create strategies to overcome those challenges. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes and 24/7 access to learning tools. Complete your program in as little as 2 semesters. Learn from world-class faculty who have extensive experience in the field. Get a head start on your master’s program—all of the certificate courses count towards our online M.A. in Higher Education. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this program on your own time through fully online classes. Learn More 12 CREDIT HOURS Earn a specialized certificate in just 4 courses (12 credit hours). Learn More 1 YEAR TO COMPLETE Complete this certificate in as little as 2 semesters. Learn More "This certificate program is designed with a diverse audience in mind and is attractive to academics across disciplines who find themselves in administrative roles, professionals transitioning to higher education from other institutions, those newly learning about higher education, and more. Graduates gain an understanding of how higher education institutions function and how to lead in the unique environment of higher education." Jessica Buckley, Ph.D. Program Director Outcomes Across the industry, higher ed jobs are expected to grow 10% from 2016-2026, faster than the average across all industries. Furthermore, the median pay for administrative positions is projected at $92,360 annually (bls.gov). College and university administrators, mid-career faculty members, emerging department chairs, community college instructors and other members of the academic profession who earn this certificate, are prepared to pursue positions of support and campus leadership roles in academic administration. Graduates of UofL’s online org change in higher ed certificate may apply all earned credits to the Master of Arts in Higher Education Administration, also offered 100% online. Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date December 10 Spring I January February 10 Spring II March May 1 Summer June August 1 Fall I Late August September 10 Fall II October Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete application for admission (Choose the program "GCOCHE - Organizational Change in Higher Education (CGR) - ONLINE") $40 non-refundable application fee Submit official transcript showing completed BA/BS degree (sent directly to UofL) Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements To enroll, you must apply as a graduate non-degree seeking student and meet the following requirements: Bachelor’s degree from an accredited institution* Minimum undergraduate GPA of 2.5 to be admitted in good standing (applicants with a lower GPA may obtain conditional admission) Professional goals statement The Admissions Committee evaluates applications based on how an applicant’s goals, professional experiences, and commitment to education are an appropriate fit with this program This document will also be used to assess your writing skills Current resume NOTE: Current students enrolled in UofL's M.A. in Higher Education Administration program will only need to submit their application and application fee. UofL will submit the other document requirements from the student's existing file. GRE scores not required Mail all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu *See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. For additional questions regarding your graduate application, please contact gradadm@louisville.edu. Please do not send application materials to this email. International Students International students whose primary language is not English must show English language proficiency. These applicants must either submit an official TOEFL, Duolingo or IELTS score, or hold a baccalaureate degree from an English language institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. All transcripts not in English must be certified as authentic and translated verbatim in English by an approved official agency. English language proficiency can be documented by attaining one of the following: Total score of 80 or higher on the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) Internet-based test, 213 or higher on the computer-based test, or 500 or higher on the paper-based test. Official International English Language Testing System (IELTS) score of 6.5 or higher for the academic module. Duolingo English test score of 105 or higher Note: International students will not be issued a U.S. visa if admitted to an online program, since there are no campus attendance requirements. The online graduate certificate in Organizational Change in Higher Education is a 12-credit hour program. The program of study must be completed with a 3.00 overall GPA with passing grades in all courses. Course List Hours LEAD 680 Legal Issues in Higher Education 3 LEAD 684 Educational Resource Management in Postsecondary Education 3 LEAD 694 Diversity in Higher Education 3 LEAD 697 Organizational Improvement in Higher Education 3 Total Required Credit Hours 12 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Is there a part-time option? Yes, you can earn the certificate as a part-time student. Do I need to have Higher Ed professional experience to be admitted to the program? Higher Ed professional experience is preferred, but it is not a hard requirement. Is this program open to international students? Yes, this program is available for international students. Does my bachelor’s degree need to be in a related field? No, we welcome applicants from all academic backgrounds. Is there a GPA requirement? Yes, you must have a minimum of GPA of 2.5 (on a 4.0 scale). I don’t have a 2.5 GPA, could I be accepted provisionally? Provisional admission may be possible. The Admissions Committee will assess applications on a case-by-case basis carefully considering all qualifications. Is the GRE required? No, the GRE is not required for admission. Can I transfer in credits? No, this program does not accept transfer credits. Can I complete this graduate certificate in tandem with another graduate program at UofL? Yes, you can enroll in more than one program, but you must apply separately to each program. The credits earned in the graduate certificate in Organizational Change in Higher Education, once completed, can be applied towards a master’s in Higher Education Administration. Will I earn the certificate in Organizational Change in Higher Ed while I complete the master’s in Higher Education Administration program? The graduate certificate in Organizational Change in Higher Education Administration can be earned concurrently during the Master's in Higher Education Administration program. However, you must apply and be admitted to each program separately. How long are the courses? The capstone course is only available as a 16-week (one semester) course. The 3 other required courses are offered in an 8-week or 16-week format during the Fall and Spring semesters, and may be offered in accelerated formats during Winter and Summer terms. Can I take summer classes? Yes, all of the courses are offered during the summer term. Overview Admissions Courses TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link