No images? Click here September 20, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews FLU & COVID-19 Flu shots and Covid-19 vaccinations Campus Health is holding a series of pop-up vaccination events across campus to help us get our campus community's vaccination rate up. Do your part by getting vaccinated or encouraging your friends and classmates to do so. Each week Campus Health will update the schedules of where the pop-up vaccination events will occur next. Flu Shot schedule. Covid-19 Vaccine schedule. IMPORTANT INFORMATION Excused Absences Policy The Excused Absences Policy allows students to be absent from class when they participate in university-sanctioned events. These university-sanctioned events include but are not limited to student government congresses, intercollegiate athletic and debate contests, music competitions, academic meetings, and conferences. When students’ participation in university-sanctioned events or activities requires them to be absent from a class (or classes) during which an examination or other measurement of academic progress is scheduled, faculty will provide students with opportunities to be evaluated at other times and by comparable alternative evaluation methods within a reasonable period of time prior to or after the absence. For more information, please refer to: louisville.edu/provost/policies/classroom/classroom-policies/#excusedabsences. Absence Notification louisville.edu/dos/facultystaff/absence-notification Students and instructors are encouraged to deal directly with one another concerning all student absences. However, in the event students find they must be away from classes due to a sudden illness, emergency, or death in the family and are unable to make contact with their instructor(s), they may request an Instructor Notification by contacting the Dean of Students Office (DOS) at 852-5787 or dos@louisville.edu. Fall 2021 Meal Plans All meal plans have been finalized. Check your student account for any outstanding balance due to the Bursar. Meal plans have been loaded onto Cardinal Cards and are available for immediate use. Check your balance on our website louisville.edu/cardinalcard/myaccount. CAMPUS SAFETY TIPS Safety is our Cardinal Rule The University of Louisville Police Department reminds faculty, staff, and students that simple actions can reduce the chances of being the victim of a crime. Call 911 for all emergencies needing Police, Fire or EMS. If you see something, say something. We need your help keeping campus safe. Call the ULPD at (502) 852-6111 to report suspicious activity. Sign up for the Rave Guardian Safety app and Rave text alerts. louisville.edu/cardsafety Use the L-Trail. Walk in groups or pairs. louisville.edu/cardsafety/l-trail-map Don’t be so consumed with your cell phone or music that you are not aware of your surroundings. ACADEMICS REACH Offering LSAT Workshops REACH is partnering with The Princeton Review to host these FREE workshops to help you prepare for the LSAT: 9/23, 5:30–7pm (UofL students only) 10/30, 11am–1pm (open to community) Location: Belknap Academic Building (BAB) Room 258. Find additional resources at: princetonreview.com/louisville Info Session Social Justice & Health Equity Track Dr. Monica Wendel will discuss this new SPHIS undergrad degree track via TEAMS. This track will equip undergraduate public health students with the knowledge and skills to understand the historical, socio-political, and economic context through which to engage for justice and social change. September 22, 4 pm. Become a teacher! MAT Alternative Certification Info Session Have you considered a career as a teacher? Join us for an online information session to learn more about our Master of Arts in Teaching (MAT) Alternative Certification. You will learn about the alternative route to certification and how our program can help you become a certified teacher. https://forms.gle/797tFgLAWW8QDLbs6 Study Abroad major specific info sessions Art, Art History, Theatre, Engineering or Political Science majors - join a tailored info session this month to learn about study abroad opportunities. Please refer to the website for schedule and links. louisville.edu/studyabroad/looking-to-study-abroad/major-specific-information-sessions EVENTS Pollinator Garden Workday Saturday, September 18 from 8:00–10:00am Harriet A. Korfhage Native Plant Garden next to Life Sciences. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7336004 Serenity Garden Workday Saturday, September 18 from 10:00am–12:00pm LALS Serenity Garden next to Stevenson Hall. https://louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7359761 Full Moon Meditation The Mindfulness Meditation Club & SKY Campus Happiness are hosting a Full Moon Meditation on Monday, Sept. 20 from 7pm-8pm. The event is online through Zoom. Students can sign up by accessing this link: https://bit.ly/uoflmeditate Louder Than Life Raffle Support Brandeis School of Law's Sports and Entertainment Law Society by purchasing raffle tickets for a chance to win 2 tickets to Louder Than Life! Two winners will be chosen to receive a set of two tickets (VALUED AT $600). Tickets are $8 for Brandeis students and $10 for general public. Drawing takes place at 12 noon on Tuesday, September 21. Event takes place Sept 23–26 at the Kentucky Expo Center. VENMO: @ULSELS with your name and email. Email austin.breit@louisville.edu with questions. City of Ali Join us on Wednesday, September 22, 2021 from 4-6pm in the SAC Ballroom for the documentary screening of ‘City of Ali.’ There will also be a campus conversation that will immediately follow. events.louisville.edu/event/city_of_ali#.YUIGOJ1KiUk Family Friendly Event Bestselling author talk & free pizza The Center for Free Enterprise welcomes four-time bestselling author Amity Shlaes to present "New Deal 2.0: A look at history's record & implications for today." Join us Wed., September 22 at 4:30 in the College of Business auditorium. Free & open to all. FREE PIZZA for attendees. More information. Rugby Club hosts Cincinnati this Saturday The Men's Rugby Club will face Cincinnati this Saturday, September 25 afternoon at 1:00pm in Hays/Kennedy Park. Admission is free and open to the public. Come support the nationally-ranked Cards as they take on the Bearcats in exciting Rugby action! Family Friendly Event 5K Your Way The SRC is hosting a 5K Your Way event on September 29. Complete 3.1 miles in any desired fashion! Swim, bike, row, walk, run your way to the SRC. If you can't join us physically tag us on IG @ulsrc after your workout with proof of completion of the 5k. Show us proof & win a t-shirt at a later date. Pride Kick-Off Celebrate Pride Month at UofL by attending or tabling our signature Kick-Off event, presented by the LGBT Center and Cultural & Equity Centers. The program will feature FREE T-Shirts (while they last), food, music, Pride flag ceremony, and more! Wed., Oct. 6, 12–2pm Red Barn and West Plaza. louisville.edu/lgbt/programs-1/pride-week-1 Family Friendly Event 2021 Miss University of Louisville Pageant Delta Zeta Sorority is proud to announce the date of the 2021 Miss UofL Pageant, Sunday, November 7, 4:00pm at the SAC. The contestant deadline is Sunday, October 17 at 4:00pm. For more information, please contact missuofldirector@gmail.com or visit our website. AWARDS & SCHOLARSHIPS Parent of the Year application deadline nears The deadline to nominate your parent/guardian for the Parent of the Year Award is 10 a.m. Friday, September 24. https://bit.ly3kyKE54 . LGBT Center Advocate Award nominations Nominate a faculty or staff member for the LGBT Center Advocate Award. The award recognizes those individuals working to make UofL an even more LGBTQ+ affirming and welcoming campus community. Nominees can be any faculty or staff member, regardless of gender identity or sexual orientation. Deadline: September 30. louisville.edu/lgbt/faculty-and-staff-allies-at-u-of-l/lgbt-center-awards/faculty-and-staff-ally-award Nichols Award for graduate students Apply by Oct. 1 for the Dr. M. Celeste Nichols Award for graduate & professional school students. Criteria and application at this link, https://louisville.edu/womenscenter/awards-and-scholarships/awards Gilman Scholarship info session Federal Pell Grant recipients are eligible to apply for the Gilman Scholarship and earn up to $5,000 to study abroad. Join this in-person session to learn more. September 21, 12 noon, SAC W117. www.facebook.com/events/416358516469973 COMMUTER STUDENTS Commuter and Transfer Initiatives Drop-In Hours Mondays, 1:30pm - 2:30pm, Commuter Lounge CLUBS, GROUPS, & ORGANIZATIONS SHADES interest meeting SHADES is hosting two interest meetings (9/23 & 9/27 from 6–7pm in the Cultural and Equity Center) for students who may want to join the organization, learn more about what it has to offer, and how they can get involved with events that will be taking place this academic year! Tell a friend, share and follow us on instagram at Shades_UofL. Botanical Society second meeting September 24, 6:00–7:00pm, Belknap Academic Building, room 325. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/organization/botanicalsociety SERVICE & LEADERSHIP Alternative Service Break fall trip ASB will host a trip on October 4–5 focusing on the West End of Louisville, specifically safe and affordable housing, access to healthy food, and entrepreneurial resources for minority-owned businesses. This experience will give insight into the community through local residents and organizations. For more information and to apply go to: https://forms.gle/JBdwugXXeUiASntC7 WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS Martial arts in the SRC Kempo Karate, Aikido, and Ju Jutsu have resumed practicing in the SRC. No experience or aptitude required, with professional instruction from certified teachers in a controlled, safe environment. Check our website for schedules and practice times. Sign up for a free kickball league The Intramural Sports department is hosting a 3 game kickball league followed by a tournament. The deadline to sign up is Wednesday, Sept 22 at 4:30. It is totally free to play. Unified 4 v 4 Basketball Tournament On Wednesday, Sept. 22 at 6:00 P.M. on the SRC 3rd Floor we will be hosting a Unified 4 v 4 Basketball Tournament. Unified is where Special Olympics athletes and UofL students play on the same team. Our very own UofL Women's Basketball players will be the head coaches. If interested, contact Kat Halbleib. SUSTAINABILITY Student Sustainability Coalition Are you interested in a sustainable practices? Do you wish to learn about divestment? Then attend the SSC's monthly meetings, every second Friday of the month at 5 pm on Teams. Follow our instagram for more information! @uoflssc Win like Jolisha in Cards Commuter Challenge! Our 2nd weekly $50 winner, A&S student Jolisha Hines, avoided 94mi of driving by teleworking! Join her in the Challenge to win $750 in prizes! Bus, bike, walk, skate, telecommute, or carpool & log trips at directions.louisville.edu til 9/30. Historic Walking Tour 9/23 5pm—meet at Humanities Quad! louisville.edu/sustainability/events/cards-commuter-challenge-2021 Nominate for Josh Smith Sustainability Award In honor of a former student who volunteered at his alma mater and then died unexpectedly, UofL established an annual award to recognize community members & groups who give back to UofL’s sustainability efforts. Nominate by 10/1, submitting name, contact & explanation to brian.barnes@louisville.edu. ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I am struggling with my mental health. What should I do? A. UofL has a Counseling Center for students located in the Student Activities Center. It is free service for currently enrolled students. The Counseling Center is open M-F from 8am – 5pm and offers urgent consultations for crisis situations from 8:30am-4:30pm. For more information, call (502) 852-6585 or visit http://louisville.edu/counseling/. DID YOU KNOW? There is a Student Handbook full of resources including Academic Grievance Procedure, Bad Weather Schedule, Code of Student Conduct, and so much more. Go to: http://louisville.edu/dos/students/studentpoliciesandprocedures/student-handbook CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe