[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Managerial Analytics Certificate /-/images/pages/gcma/2010_GC-MA_1596x740.jpg Lead data-driven business strategy. gcma gcma-program-page organic ../../programs/certificate-programs/online-managerial-analytics-certificate/gcma?tab=apply Veronica Johnson Online Enrollment Counselor Online Managerial Analytics Certificate UofL’s online Managerial Analytics Business Certificate is designed for current or aspiring business managers who recognize the importance of using data to drive strategy and effective decision-making. The online Managerial Analytics Graduate Certificate* delivers the critical data management and data science expertise needed to make strategic business decisions in a fast-changing marketplace. You will gain knowledge and skills in rapidly-developing and in-demand areas including business analytics, artificial intelligence, blockchain, spreadsheet modeling, storytelling through data, and more—all with a business management focus. This unique certificate prepares you to effectively interpret business data and results, determine actionable insights, present next steps with confidence and manage the future of business. Certificate credits can be applied toward an MBA at UofL. This combination delivers a powerful set of credentials, intended to empower you to overcome any challenge faced by the businesses of today and tomorrow as a result of continuous advancements in big data, artificial intelligence, and data analytics. This program is offered by the AACSB-accredited College of Business at the University of Louisville. *Bachelor's degree required. College of Business Graduate Programs Webinar Date: Most Fridays | Time: 12 PM ET See all upcoming sessions and register now! Overview Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid This certificate does not qualify for financial aid. Highlights Increase your functional knowledge in the rapidly growing field of data analytics as it applies to business management. Learn to apply analytics across business areas including, but not limited to: finance and forecasting, price optimization, customer acquisition, computer information systems, web page analysis, operations management, inventory planning, and more. Develop your ability to communicate analysis and results through data visualization and data storytelling. Complete your business certificate in managerial analytics in as little as 2 semesters. Connect and network with other professionals across the industry. Learn when it’s convenient for you with 100% online courses and anywhere, anytime access. Get a jump start on your MBA—credits earned in the certificate can count as 1/5 of your UofL MBA, offered online and on-campus (you must apply and be admitted separately to the MBA). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSES Gain business analytics expertise from a renowned b-school—wherever it’s most convenient to you. 7 COURSES The certificate program is made up of only 7 courses (12 credit hours), taken 1-2 at a time. Learn More 2 SEMESTERS Take your entry Statistics course in the Fall. Complete the additional 6 courses in the Spring. Learn More "The Managerial Analytics Certificate presents a great opportunity for current or aspiring managers to gain an understanding of how data analytics can improve and grow a business. Graduates will be empowered to drive strategy and inspire effective decision-making through data. The credits can also be rolled into our MBA programs—a truly powerful combination for business managers of the future." DR. TODD MOORADIAN DEAN, COLLEGE OF BUSINESS Outcomes Job growth in data science is significant, expected to grow faster than average in the 2018-2028 projections (bls.gov). Managers who have analytics expertise are better poised to help improve and grow an organization through data insights. Graduates of the online Managerial Analytics Certificate are equipped with the expertise to apply data management, statistics, and communication skills needed to successfully gather, analyze, interpret, and provide narrative(s) around data to drive strong business strategy, solve business problems and promote growth. Professionals who combine the certificate with an MBA from UofL have a stronger foundation for integrating data analytics and artificial intelligence (AI) into their business development strategy, and are better prepared to advance their career and distinguish themselves in the marketplace. Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date October 17 Fall October 31 November 24 Fall II December 8 Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete online application Submit $40 application fee Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements To enroll in the online Managerial Analytics Certificate offered by the College of Business at the University of Louisville, you must apply as a graduate non-degree seeking student and meet the following requirements: For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. Bachelor's degree in any field from an accredited college or university* Official transcript(s) certifying the undergraduate degree Minimum cumulative undergraduate GPA of 2.5 (on a 4.0 scale) GMAT/GRE scores are not required for admission. *While all backgrounds are accepted, applicants should be aware of the highly technical nature of the courses. Send official transcripts to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu * See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. UofL’s online Managerial Analytics Certificate consists of 7 courses (totaling 12 graduate credit hours). The courses must be taken during the noted semesters. All courses are delivered in 5-week terms. Courses in the Spring semester are 1.5 credit hours and are taken 2 at a time. Fall Semester Hours MBA 631 / ANLY 631 Introduction to Statistics and Data Analytics 3 Spring Semester Hours ANLY 610 Data Base 1.5 ANLY 615 Artificial Intelligence 1.5 ANLY 620 Advanced Business Analytics 1.5 ANLY 625 Spreadsheet Modeling for Analytics 1.5 ANLY 630 Blockchain 1.5 ANLY 635 Storytelling With Data 1.5 TOTAL REQUIRED CREDIT HOURS 12 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Is the managerial analytics expertise gained through this certificate specific to one particular business industry? This certificate is not industry specific. Regardless of the type of business you manage or aspire to manage, developing a solid understanding of how to apply managerial analytics principles, methods and tools to understand data and drive business strategy can set you – and your business – apart in the industry. I took an intro to statistics course at another institution. Could I transfer those credits in to cover the pre-requisite requirement? Potentially. While most certificate programs do not accept transfer credit, there are cases when we can accept transfer credit for the intro to statistics course. Contact our enrollment team for more information. If I am enrolled in the MBA program, can I get financial aid while taking the certificate courses? Yes. While financial aid is not available for non-degree seeking certificate students, taking these courses as an enrolled MBA student fulfilling electives requirements does make you eligible for federal financial aid. Do these courses count toward UofL’s seated Master of Science in Business Analytics program? No, the Managerial Analytics Certificate courses will not count toward the Master of Science in Business Analytics (MSBA) degree program offered by the College of Business. While similar in focus, the two programs are inherently different in that the MSBA degree prepares graduates to become data scientists – actually working within the data analysis – whereas the Certificate in Managerial Analytics focuses more on providing the foundation managers need to make strong business decisions based on data and analytics output. Featured Faculty Overview Admissions Courses TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link