Skip to Main Content Louisville.edu Health Sciences Center My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Menu Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Search Search All Sites This SiteSearch Query Go Academics Future Students Current Students Faculty & Staff Alumni & Friends Future Students View All Future Students Information Programs & Degrees Office of Admissions Financial Aid Academic Departments About the School Accreditation Student Affairs Continuing Education Residency Programs Meet the Dean of Dentistry Diversity and Inclusion Contact us Current Students View All Current Students Information Student Affairs Academic Affairs Residency Programs School of Dentistry Admissions Academic Support Services Continuing Education Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Financial Aid Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Technology Support: Dental Informatics Contact us Faculty & Staff View All Faculty & Staff Information Programs & Degrees Residency Programs Academic Departments Technology Support: Dental Informatics Send Help Request Continuing Dental Education Research Accreditation Center for Oral Health and Systemic Disease Contact us Alumni & Friends View All Alumni & Friends Information Alumni Information Continuing Education Dental Practice and Position Opportunities Ways to Give Dental Hygiene Alumni Local Hotels & Accommodations About the School Meet the Dean of Dentistry Programs & Degrees Academic Departments Residency Programs Contact us Research Research Information Dentistry Research Office Department of Oral Immunology and Infectious Diseases Patient Care Patient Care Information Student Clinics Specialty (Postgraduate) Clinics New Patient? Read More Patient Rights and Responsibilities Price Comparison Guide Emergency Care Fees and Insurance Patient Advisory Council Frequently Asked Questions Make A Payment Make an Appointment 502-852-5096 Our faculty provide care, too! UofL Dental Associates Outreach Community Outreach Information Community Dental Health Rotation Sites International Service Learning Contact Giving Give Now Why Giving Matters Dean's Circle Meet Your Development Representatives Home/ Programs & Degrees/ D.M.D. Program/ FAQs Navigation D.M.D. Program Admissions Advising & Visits Tuition & Aid Early Admission to Dentistry (ULEAD) Program International Students Advanced Standing for Internationally Trained Dentists Transfer Students Computing Requirements FAQs Contact FAQs Frequently Asked Questions How is COVID-19 impacting the admissions process? ULSD continues to monitor the pandemic and its impact on dental admissions. Last cycle, we adjusted our prerequisites to accept "pass" grades if an institution has implemented a pass/fail grading system for Spring 2020 and will continue that policy in future cycles (for Spring 2020 only). All other COVID-related adjustments will be posted to our website. How, where and when do I apply to ULSD? The ULSD participates in the ADEA Associated American Dental Schools Application Service (AADSAS). The application process typically begins during the first week of June. Applications must be submitted through AADSAS prior to the deadline date of December 31. All materials must be received by January 20 or the application will be not be considered. Applicants are encouraged to apply early in the admissions cycle. After submission, AADSAS verifies your transcripts and materials which can take 2-4 weeks. You will be notified via email when we receive your verified application materials with instructions for next steps. The application can be accessed online at www.adea.org. What does the admissions committee look for in an applicant? Our admissions committee looks for applicants that can display competence in the following areas: active learning; self-awareness, resilience & problem-solving; communication, professionalism & ethical behavior; technical knowledge; empathy & compassion. Applicants can demonstrate competence in these areas by successfully completing upper level science courses that mirror content one would see in dental school, gaining exposure to the dental profession through shadowing, work experience and virtual means, committing themselves to serving their community, and gaining experience in leadership and team settings that help develop tangible skills. How many people are accepted each year? How many in-state and out-of-state? The University of Louisville School of Dentistry (ULSD) DMD program accepts 120 students to our entering class each year. The student body is typically comprised of about 30% Kentucky residents and 70% from other states and countries. How many total applications do you receive each year? For the past several years, ULSD has received approximately 2,000 applications. How will I know that my ULSD application requirements are complete? A complete ULSD application consists of: your AADSAS application, official DAT scores, 3 letters of recommendation (or one committee letter), completion of Altus Suite (Casper and Snapshot), and a $65 application processing fee (which can be paid online after we email you a link). ULSD Admissions will send you an email when all these requirements have been received and processed in the ULSD Admissions Office. Does your school require a secondary application? Although we do not require secondary application materials, applicants invited to participate in the interview day are required to provide two supplemental documents. Those documents are emailed to applicants and need to be returned prior to the interview for review by the Office of Admissions. How many letters of evaluation does your school require? The ULSD Admissions Committee requires 3 letters of evaluation or 1 committee letter. We do not have a specific requirement for who writes the letters. We believe the applicant should make their best determination to select letter writers who they believe can best describe their personal and academic attributes. Extra letters beyond those allowed in AADSAS are not accepted. When should I submit my application fee? Please wait until our Admissions office contacts you via the email address you submitted on AADSAS. We will ask you to submit the $65.00 ULSD application fee payment online. You will receive email confirmation once the fee payment is posted to your application. The confirmation email will also explain next steps for the application process. There is typically at least a 24-hour turn-around time for processing online fee payments. What is the DAT? The Dental Admission Test is a standardized exam which is sponsored by the American Dental Association and is used to measure academic ability, scientific understanding, perceptual ability and critical thinking. Official DAT scores are an application requirement. You can register here. When should I take the DAT? Applicants should take the DAT when they feel fully prepared to best demonstrate their knowledge of the subject matter. Applicants typically plan to take the exam as close to the completion of the upper level human biology and second semester of organic chemistry that appear on the DAT exam. This can occur late in the sophomore year, and most commonly at the end of the junior year of college. In the event that you believe test scores do not reflect your abilities, you can re-take it after 90 days. More than two attempts at the DAT may make you less competitive. How long are DAT scores valid at ULSD? ULSD requires that DAT scores be two years old or less at the beginning of the cycle to which you are applying. Do you accept Canadian DAT scores? No. Our DMD program does not accept the Canadian DAT as of the 2022-2023 application cycle. All applicants must take the DAT through the American Dental Association. Do I have to send DAT scores directly to the school? Official DAT scores are processed through AADSAS and sent directly to dental schools to which the applicant has designated on the DAT application. Should I wait to submit my application until I have taken the DAT? Apply to AADSAS early (June) to assure timely completion of the application process and to enhance early consideration by the Admissions Committee for possible interview invitation. This also allows your official DAT scores to catch up to the rest of your application in AADSAS. If I plan to retake the DAT, is it possible that my application will be rejected based on my old scores before I am able to submit my new scores? If you indicate a future DAT date on your application then your application will be put on hold until the new, official scores are received. It is helpful to notify our office when you see in your AADSAS dashboard that we have your official scores. What are your GPA and DAT averages for accepted students? For the ULSD Class of 2025, the average overall GPA was 3.56. The biology, chemistry, physics (BCP) GPA average was 3.38. Other DAT averages were: Academic Average-20, Perceptual Ability-20, Biology-19, Organic Chemistry-21, Reading-21, and Total Science-20. Do AP credits count toward prerequisite courses? Yes, as long as the 4-year institution from which you obtain your BS/BA degree counts those courses toward your degree, the University of Louisville will also honor them. The course credits must appear on your transcript from an accredited university or college in the U.S. The Admissions Committee reserves the right to evaluate courses on a case by case basis. Do I need to complete all prerequisite courses before applying? No, but all courses must be completed, in progress or planned to be completed by June 1 of the year in which you intend to matriculate into dental school. It is best if you list all courses planned and in progress to your AADSAS application materials. The Admissions Committee will be able to see that you have planned to take all the required courses prior to the start date. Can I take prerequisite courses at a community college? You may take courses at any regionally accredited institution of your choosing, including junior/community colleges as long as they will transfer to a 4-year university for college credit. The standard rule is only 60 college credits are eligible towards admission to the ULSD DMD program. All subsequent college credits and all upper level biology courses should be taken at a 4-year institution. Can I take prerequisite courses online? If the online course is credited towards your college BS/BA degree in a 4-year institution, it is acceptable. The pandemic has taught us that students should be exposed to a variety of teaching methods. Does ULSD require a specific major? You may major in any subject you wish as long as you complete the minimum required courses for dental school. Many students choose to major in biology which efficiently includes most of the prerequisite courses for dental school. Always consider taking more upper level human biology courses to better prepare your for dental school. Are there particular courses that would best prepare me for dental school? The Admissions Committee encourages every student to develop a course of study in conjunction with the college or university pre-dental/pre-health advisor. If the school does not have a pre-dental advisor, the student should consult faculty members/department heads from the biology and chemistry departments to select courses that mirror the rigors of the dental program curriculum. ULSD admissions counselors are also available to review plans and offer advice. We recommend you select courses that extend the content of biomedical sciences, which includes: anatomy, physiology, microbiology, and histology. What level of performance is the Admissions Committee looking for in my academic history? Successful applicants most often demonstrate the ability to carry full-time academic loads (with one or more science courses) while balancing other community and personal responsibilities. Full-time study is defined as four or more courses per term. In each term, at least two of the four courses should be pre-dental science courses. Applicants should achieve a C- or better in each course; minimal D, W, F or I grades with the exception of Spring 2020 courses (due to COVID-19). Transcripts showing a "pass" for courses in this semester only will be accepted. How many hours of shadowing does ULSD require? In order for applicants to understand the dental profession and have a solid foundation of the many facets of general dentistry, they should do their best to expose themselves to various aspects of dentistry. We require applicants to complete a minimum of 40 hours observation in general dentistry prior to the application process. We also recommend applicants seek out other avenues of exposure (virtual shadowing, professional development workshops, employment, etc.) Future shadowing hours will not be counted. Shadowing general dentists should be a high priority early in your admissions process. Is an interview required for admission? Yes. All successful, accepted candidates are required to participate in the interview process. Interviews for the 2022-2023 cycle will be conducted in person only. How many applicants do you interview each year? The Admissions Committee interviews an average of 400 applicants each cycle. Interviews are by invitation of the Admissions Committee and all accepted applicants must participate in the interview process. How will I know if I am selected for an interview? Interview invitations are sent via the email to the address reported on your AADSAS application with a response deadline and further instructions. It is important to check your spam/junk folder if you have a strict filter on your email account. Are interviews by group or on an individual basis? Interviews typically consist of one or two one-on-one interviews lasting approximately 20 to 30 minutes each. Genuine unrehearsed conversation is best practice. Committee members are interested in interpersonal skill, critical thinking and ethical reasoning. What do I wear to the interview day? This is a professional school interview. The expectation is for candidates to dress in business professional attire. When do interviews occur? The ULSD interview process typically begins late August and runs through January or February. May I bring guests to the interview? Interviews are designed for applicant participation only. Guests may wait in our patient waiting areas, dine at one of Louisville's many restaurants, or visit tourist attractions. If I am a reapplicant, will I need to resubmit DAT scores and letters? You will need to resubmit application materials to AADSAS for a new application cycle. Reminder: official DAT scores may be re-submitted but the date taken must be within two years of the cycle open date to be considered valid. Applicants will be required to complete Altus Suite (Casper and Snapshot) again. If I have applied to your dental school in previous years, am I guaranteed admission next year? No. Re-applicants are advised to strengthen their applications before re-applying. Can I get enough financial aid to go through four years of dental school without working? In order to qualify for Federal Student Aid the FAFSA must be completed each academic year. Eligible students are awarded up to their full cost of attendance, which includes tuition, fees, books, supplies, room, board and estimated living expenses. Financial aid is based on the cost of the attendance for the student only. What about scholarships? ULSD offers institutional scholarship opportunities for incoming students. Usually these awards vary from $1,000 to $10,000 one-time or renewable. How does the military play a role in financial aid? The Army, Navy and Air Force each offer commitment based scholarships. These scholarships pay tuition, fees, and a living stipend for recipients. How much is the cost of attendance at the ULSD? Please check the link to see the 2021-22 cost of attendance. How is residency determined and is it possible to apply for residency after one year of dental school? Residency is determined at time of interview and is based on criteria established by the Kentucky Council on Postsecondary Education. This regulation is used by Kentucky state-supported postsecondary institutions. Because residency is determined at time of interview, offers of admission are made according to residency at that time. If admitted as a non-resident, the student will be considered a non-resident for tuition purposes for the duration of their education at ULSD. It is NOT possible to apply for Kentucky residency after one year (or more) of dental school.. In order to work in this profession, are there requirements in addition to my DMD degree? Yes, The Kentucky Board of Dentistry issues dental licenses under laws adopted by the state legislature. Specific licensure requirements vary among states/jurisdictions, but all have three types of requirements: 1) an educational requirement, 2) a written examination requirement, and 3) a clinical examination requirement. All jurisdictions recognize graduates of dental schools accredited directly by the Commission on Dental Accreditation (CODA) as having fulfilled the educational requirement. It is the responsibility of the student dentist to understand the licensing requirements of the state(s) in which they intend to practice dentistry. Contact the respective board of dentistry to learn more about licensing requirements. School of Dentistry 501 South Preston Street University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40202 USA Office Hours Administrative Offices M-F 8:00am to 5:00pm Clinical Offices Check your clinic No Holiday Hours Contact View contact information for the School of Dentistry. Email Primary School of Dentistry email addresses can be found on our contact page. Visitor Information If planning a visit to the School of Dentistry, please click on the map below for updated visitor information. © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville