[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Certificates / Online Franchise Management Certificate /-/images/pages/frc/2010_FRC_1596x517.jpg Own your future. frc frc-program-page organic ../../programs/certificate-programs/franchise-management/franchise-management-certificate?tab=apply Veronica Johnson Online Enrollment Counselor Online Franchise Management Certificate The online Franchise Management Certificate is designed to help current or future franchisees embrace their full potential and succeed as a business owner. The Certificate is also ideal for those working for a franchisor, as it provides critical insights into the franchising business that will assist in building long-standing relationships. UofL's online Franchise Management Certificate* delivers critical insights and practical knowledge around the fundamentals and core skills of franchise management. Regardless of whether you're just getting started as a franchisee, looking to expand an already growing enterprise, or position yourself for a leadership role with a franchisor, this certificate will enrich your franchising knowledge through courses in franchise law, human resources management, finance, strategic planning and more. Offered by the College of Business at the University of Louisville and the Yum! Center for Global Franchise Excellence. *Bachelor’s degree required INFO SESSION: On-Demand Recording Watch a live recording of our most recent info session, hosted by Dr. Kathy Gosser, online Franchise Management program director and franchising guru. Click the link below and fill out the form to view the recording, and learn more about the program. WATCH NOW Overview Application Courses Your Success Team How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid This certificate does not qualify for financial aid. Does your employer offer tuition reimbursement? Because successful franchisees help the bottom line of franchisors, some students may be able to get financial support from their franchisor. You may be required to submit a request for tuition reimbursement. Download a Sample Request Letter [PDF 1] [PDF 2] to get started. Highlights Develop the skills and knowledge needed to acquire, run and grow a franchise business with courses designed in partnership with industry executives. Learn from instructors with extensive experience in the industry. Connect and network with other franchise professionals across the industry. Finish in as little as 30 weeks with 5-week terms. Learn on your own time and in your own space with 100% online classes and 24/7 access to coursework. Get a jump start on your MBA—100% of credits earned in the certificate program apply to completion of your UofL MBA (you must apply separately to the MBA). START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Program Outcome Franchise ownership is a practical pathway to entrepreneurship. According to recent statistics from the International Franchise Association (IFA), the franchising industry has more than 740,000 franchise operations in the United States, employs nearly 8 million workers, and contributes more than $400 billion to the gross domestic product. The franchise industry is outpacing growth of the overall economy and is projected to grow even more in coming years. Franchise opportunities are available across many industries including food, hospitality, automotive, education, health, home services, retail and more. By completing this program, you will develop the expertise needed to start your own franchise business, expand your current enterprise, or position yourself for a leadership role in a franchise organization. Opportunities for career growth in franchise management are endless. Reach out for more information today to find out how UofL Online can help you take the first step. 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete your degree on your own time through fully online coursework and learning tools. Learn More 6 PROGRAM COURSES The certificate program requires only 6 courses (9 credit hours), taken one at a time. Learn More 5 WEEK TERMS Shortened 5-week terms are designed to help you better balance your learning with your professional responsibilities. "At the College of Business, we think you can become even more successful when you are armed with the education and the knowledge you need to run your franchise business." KATHLEEN GOSSER, PH.D. CO-CREATOR & FACULTY FRANCHISE MANAGEMENT CERT Application Deadline Term Start Date June 21 Summer July 5 August 7 Fall I August 22 September 12 Fall II September 26 October 17 Fall III October 31 For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. Admission Requirements Completed online application $40 non-refundable application fee Bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university* Official transcript(s) certifying the undergraduate degree Minimum GPA of 2.5 Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu * See the UofL Transfer Credit Policy for more information. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION The online Franchise Management Certificate consists of 6 courses (9 hours), delivered in 5-week terms. Courses are offered each spring and fall semester. Courses do not follow a specific sequence, and can be taken in any order. Courses Hours FRAN 601 Franchising Fundamentals 1.5 FRAN 610 Navigating Franchise Law 1.5 FRAN 620 Buying and Growing a Franchise 1.5 FRAN 630 Franchise HR Infrastructure 1.5 FRAN 640 Leading Franchise Teams 1.5 FRAN 650 Building a Profitable Relationship With Your Franchise 1.5 Total Required Hours 9 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Faculty Overview Admissions COURSES TEAM 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link