Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Louis D. Brandeis School of Law Navigation Home About Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Dean's Office Our People and Mission Our Approach Our Namesake, Louis D. Brandeis Our History and Traditions Our City and Campus Our Commitment to Diversity Certificate in Health Law Our Accreditations Admissions How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Diversity & Inclusion Part-Time Schedule Viewbook Admissions FAQ Connect with Us Admitted Students AdmissionsAdmissions Dropdown Toggle How to Apply Tuition & Financial Aid Diversity & Inclusion Part-Time Schedule Viewbook Admissions FAQ Connect with Us Admitted Students Academics Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars AcademicsAcademics Dropdown Toggle Degree Programs Experiential Learning Academic Success Course Catalog Academic Calendars Careers Staff Policies Employment Statistics For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Greenebaum Public Service Program CareersCareers Dropdown Toggle Staff Policies Employment Statistics For Current Students For Employers For Alumni Greenebaum Public Service Program Faculty & Staff Faculty Directory Areas of Expertise Staff Directory Faculty Speaker Series Faculty & StaffFaculty & Staff Dropdown Toggle Faculty Directory Areas of Expertise Staff Directory Faculty Speaker Series Alumni & Giving Alumni News Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Give to Brandeis Adjunct/Part-Time Faculty Statement of Interest Request a Transcript Alumni & GivingAlumni & Giving Dropdown Toggle Alumni News Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Give to Brandeis Adjunct/Part-Time Faculty Statement of Interest Request a Transcript Student Experiences Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Student Life Student Organizations and Publications International Opportunities Public Service Student Fellowships Brandeis Mentor Program Externships Student ExperiencesStudent Experiences Dropdown Toggle Office of Student Affairs and Diversity Student Life Student Organizations and Publications International Opportunities Public Service Student Fellowships Brandeis Mentor Program Externships Alumni & Giving Alumni News Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Give to Brandeis Adjunct/Part-Time Faculty Statement of Interest Request a Transcript Home / Alumni & Giving / Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums The law school hosts major lecture series each year, as well as the Warns-Render Labor and Employment Law Institute and Estate Planning Institute, bringing in national speakers from many different backgrounds and professions. Distinguished Lectures The Brandeis Medal and Lecture Series is funded by the Wilson W. Wyatt Distinguished Speakers Endowment. It honors a recipient chosen for his or her devotion to economic, social or political justice and advancing the cause of public service in the legal profession. Past recipients have included Supreme Court Justices John Paul Stevens, Stephen Breyer, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Elena Kagan, Hon. Janet Reno, Eugene Robinson and Senator Howard Baker. The Boehl Distinguished Lecture Series in Land Use Policy is funded by the Boehl endowment and brings a nationally prominent scholar in land use law and policy to the University every semester to deliver a major public lecture and to meet with groups of faculty, students, and members of the community. Continuing Legal Education The Brandeis School of Law is proud to offer several CLE opportunities for local attorneys. Diversity Forum Series The University of Louisville's Brandeis School of Law has a longstanding commitment to diversity as evidenced by the Diversity Committee, which has played a major role in changing the culture of the law school. Former Dean Donald Burnett first established an ad hoc committee on diversity issues in fall 1992. That group evolved into today's committee, which develops programming that supports race and gender diversity, inclusiveness and equality. To date the committee has organized programs on everything from affirmative action, disability rights and gay marriage to immigration law, elder law, the death penalty, sexual harassment, the separation of church and state, domestic violence, racial profiling, voting rights, racial fairness in the Jefferson County courts, minority entrepreneurship, the Family Court Amendment and reproductive rights. In 2017, the committee sponsored a panel discussion on cooperative economics, diversity and the law. The committee co-sponsors several other events each academic year with the Black Law Students Association, the Lambda Law Caucus and the Women's Law Caucus; other campus departments such as Women's and Gender Studies; and off-campus organizations including the American Civil Liberties Union of Kentucky and the Clothesline Project. The committee also brings in nationally prominent speakers, including Angela Davis and the late Anne Braden. All events are free and open to the public. More information is available by contacting Robin Harris by email or at 502-852-6083. Alumni & Giving Alumni News Distinguished Lectures, CLE Events and Forums Give to Brandeis Adjunct/Part-Time Faculty Statement of Interest Request a Transcript Recent Alumni News Hon. David C. Buckingham ('77) appointed to Kentucky Supreme Court Two 2010 Louisville Law alumna named partner at Stites Aurora L. Hardin (2018) joins Pennsylvania law firm Bradley Patrick (2014) appointed as U.S. Army judge advocate Ashlea Meyer (2005) named Atlanta Postmaster Recent Alumni News - More… Subscribe to Brandeis Law News & Events Add these feeds to your RSS reader app to get content from the Brandeis School of Law pushed right to your desktop or mobile device. All News Alumni News Public Events Louis D. Brandeis School of Law University of Louisville Louisville, KY 40292 Google Map Office Hours M-F, 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. No holiday hours Contact tel +1-502-852-6358 fax +1-502-852-7299 Admissions: lawadmissions@louisville.edu General: brandeislaw@louisville.edu Quick Links Consumer Information (ABA Required Disclosures) Apply Now Give to Brandeis Law Clinic Intranet Symplicity Job Bank Social Media © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville