No images? Click here August 2, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews WELCOME WEEK 2021 Get ready to make some of the best friends and memories of your UofL experience. Welcome Week is an exciting series of events and activities that help first year, commuter, transfer and returning students get the fall semester started off right. This time will help you meet tons of new and upperclass students and make UofL your new home, all while enjoying an almost endless supply of free food and prizes. We'll see you Aug. 18-22. Download the UofL New Cards app Be sure to download the UofL New Cards app (available in the App Store or Google Play) to get your personalized schedule, real-time event updates, campus maps and more! To access the Welcome Week 2021 schedule, open the app and log in with your UofL credentials. Click the menu bar on the left-hand side, and click “Guides.” View “All Guides” and select the “Welcome Week” guide. Click “Add Guide” then add events that interest you to your schedule! Questions? Email our Welcome Week Team. WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS Health Promotion fall services Check out the fall 2021 Health Promotion services schedule. Support your health & well-being and sign up or drop-in to these services this fall. louisville.edu/healthpromotion/services Did you know there is a Kickball league? The Intramural hosts a Kickball league starting at the end of September. Check out more information on IMLeagues.com/louisville. And guess what...IT'S FREE. Fencing Club in the SRC The Fencing Club offers high-level instruction in all disciplines of the sport. Educational sessions are conducted in supervised, structured, and safe conditions. Practices are held on Monday and Wednesday evenings, and Saturday mornings in the SRC. louisville.edu/intramurals/sports-clubs Summer wrap-up We may have wrapped up a strong Summer group fitness schedule last week, but check out our Instagram @ULSRC for more workouts and fitness ideas as we get ready for fall. louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness/src-group-fitness ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I need to get a conduct record check from UofL for a job application. Where do I go to get this done? A. The Dean of Students Office handles conduct record checks. For more information on how to submit your request, visit https://louisville.edu/dos/help/disciplinary. DID YOU KNOW? The UofL ConcernCenter is designed to help you find resources on campus based on various concerns. Go to: https://louisville.concerncenter.com CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe