[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Master's Degree Programs / Online Master of Science in Civil Engineering /-/images/pages/msce/2010_MSCE_1596x740_B.jpg Build a stronger career. msce msce-program-page organic ../programs/certificate-programs/graduate-certificate-in-data-science?tab=apply Miriam Jones Online Enrollment Counselor Online Master of Science in Civil Engineering The online Master of Science in Civil Engineering (MSCE) is designed for professionals with a bachelor’s in civil engineering who want to stay on top of industry advancement and take the next step in their career. UofL's online master's in Civil Engineering program delivers an innovative curriculum taught by award-winning faculty, and provides the knowledge and training you need to move forward in your career as a civil engineer. Learn about the latest industry trends and gain the technical knowledge needed for you to stand out and stay competitive in a demanding marketplace. The online Master of Science in Civil Engineering is offered through the J.B. Speed School of Engineering at the University of Louisville. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Tuition rate does not include costs associated with a specific course or program, such as textbooks. Other fees apply. Highlights Skip the GRE or GMAT – not required for admission! Join a highly-regarded program, trusted by industry employers and featuring courses that reflect changes and advancements in the field. Acquire knowledge that helps you stay up-to-date on licensure standards and requirements. Study software and tools that are vital in real job situations. Move successfully through the program with a dedicated advisor to assist you from enrollment through graduation. Work with UofL’s career service center for any job-related needs. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Online Graduate Civil Engineering Certificates Want to test the waters first? Start with a certificate program, gain momentum and move into the master’s program with ease. Graduate Certificate in Structural Engineering (12 credit hours) Graduate Certificate in Transportation Engineering (12 credit hours) 100% ONLINE COURSES Complete this degree on your own time through fully online coursework. Learn More 30 CREDIT HOURS Take only 10 courses to graduate with your master’s degree. Learn More 1 YEAR PROGRAM Complete our online MSCE program in as little as 1 year! Part-time option also available. "As we continue to see an increase in the standards and requirements for professional licensure, the Master’s in Civil Engineering is one of the advanced degrees that [engineers] will have to have. I want [students] to walk out and be prepared for those professional examinations that they have to go through as part of our career." PROF. BRANDON SHELLEY ONLINE MSCE FACULTY Why earn a master’s in civil engineering? While a master’s degree isn’t necessary to pursue a career as a civil engineer, it does give you a leg up in the industry. Highly educated civil engineers are prepared to address contemporary issues such as increasing urbanization and aging infrastructure with confidence and expertise. Not only will you have a more well-rounded and expanded understanding of key civil engineering areas, but you’ll be prepared to step into management roles, standout in a competitive job market and increase your potential earnings. Career options after graduation include managing, supervising or leading civil engineering teams and projects, as well as pursuing roles including: Structural Engineer, Surveyor, Water Resource Engineer, Transportation Analyst, Project Engineer, Land Development Engineer and more. Many graduates of our program have stepped into key roles within their organization and put their knowledge to work immediately after completing the program. The median annual wage for civil engineers was $88,570 in May 2020, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Preferred Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall August December 1 Spring January April 1 Summer May Note: We admit students on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance and enroll before the term begins. We review applications as they become complete, and admit students for a specific term up to the day classes start. We recommend you work on and submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. For more information on the admission and application process, please contact our Online Learning Enrollment Counselor at 800.871.8635 or by email at online@louisville.edu. Steps to Apply Complete application for admission Submit $65 non-refundable application fee Submit official transcripts for all undergraduate and graduate work from accredited institutions Check for Scholarships START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Bachelor degree in civil engineering* Minimum undergraduate GPA of 2.75 to be admitted in good standing (applicants with a lower GPA may obtain conditional admission) Two recommendation letters – use provided forms [PDF] * Applicants with similar degrees will be considered on a case-by-case basis No GRE required for admission. Send all materials to: Graduate Admissions University of Louisville 2211 S. Brook Street Louisville, KY 40292 gradadm@louisville.edu International Students – Additional Notes/Requirements Bachelor's degrees earned internationally must be assessed to ensure that entrance requirements are met. If you live outside of the United States and intend to complete an online academic program from your home country, be sure to view special requirements for international students. International students will not be issued a U.S. visa if admitted to the online MSCE program, since there are no campus attendance requirements. Credit Transfer You may transfer up to six credit hours of graduate coursework from an accredited university, pending department approval. See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. The online MSCE is a 30 credit hour (10 course) program with course options that allow you to pursue your interests in areas like management, communications and geography. Course List Hours CEE 522 Fundamentals of Prestressed Concrete 3 CEE 523 Timber Design 3 CEE 524 Bridge Design 3 CEE 560 Traffic Engineering 3 CEE 562 Geometric Highway Design 3 CEE 563 GPS Theory and Application 3 CEE 565 GIS Application to Transportation 3 CEE 573 Groundwater Hydrology 3 CEE 590 Construction Management 3 CEE 626 Masonry Design 3 CEE 660 Transportation Planning & Urban Development 3 CEE 661 Environmental Analysis of Transportation Systems 3 CEE 662 Airport Planning and Design 3 CEE 663 Advanced Traffic Operations 3 CEE 664 Intelligent Transportation Systems 3 CEE 665 Pavement Design 3 CEE 694 Building Information Modeling 3 CEE 694 Wetland Design 3 Total Required Hours 30 To optimize the mix of courses in your program, contact your advisor each semester prior to registration. See other available courses in the Transportation Engineering Certificate and the Structural Engineering Certificate, also 100% online. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Is this program ABET-accredited? No, typically bachelor's in engineering programs are ABET-accredited while master's in engineering degrees are typically not ABET-accredited. The University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). SACSCOC is recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. Can I earn the online M.S. in Civil Engineering degree and one of the Graduate Certificates at the same time? Yes! You can work toward earning both your M.S. in Civil Engineering and either the Graduate Certificate in Structural Engineering or Transportation Engineering at the same time. If you let the academic adviser know when making the degree plan, you can finish both programs within 10 classes. Can I receive credit for graduate courses completed at another institution? Once admitted, students may request department permission to transfer up to six (6) credit hours from an accredited graduate program. Only courses that have not counted towards another degree program will be considered. See the Graduate School Transfer of Credit Policy for more information. What bachelor’s degrees, other than engineering, are acceptable for admission in the MS Civil Engineering program? Students must have a bachelor's in civil engineering. Similar degrees and professional experience in concrete design may, on a case by case basis, be accepted for admission. International students must have the equivalent of a BSCE. Are GRE scores required for admission? No! There is no GRE or GMAT requirement for admission into the online master's in civil engineering at UofL. Are scholarships available for the MSCE program? No, at this time there are no scholarships available. However, some employers may provide tuition support through employer reimbursement programs. Overview Outcomes Admissions COURSES TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link