[Skip to Content] What are you looking for? This link closes the search box What are you looking for? Request Info Apply Now Contact Info Home / Programs / Online Master's Degree Programs / Online Master of Science in Health Professions Education /-/images/pages/mshpe/MSHPE_Header.jpg Preparing the next generation of providers mshpe mshpe-program-page organic ../../programs/masters/online-master-of-science-in-health-professions-education/mshpe?tab=apply Erin Elrod Online Enrollment Counselor Online Master of Science in Health Professions Education The online Master of Science in Health Professions Education (MSHPE) is designed for healthcare professionals who plan to teach in their respective discipline—medicine, nursing, dentistry, pharmacy, or other health fields—and prepare to become effective educators in a clinical or classroom setting. UofL’s Health Professions Education master’s program helps develop your educator identity and advance your expertise in curriculum design, learning assessment, educational research and inclusive teaching practices. Delivered through flexible online courses, our MSHPE program prepares you to successfully instruct a diverse group of learners and make your impact on the next generation of healthcare providers. The online Health Professions Education master’s program is offered through a partnership between the College of Education and Human Development and the School of Medicine at the University of Louisville. Overview Outcomes Application Courses Your Success Team FAQ How Much Will I Pay? Tuition & Aid Highlights Skip the GRE – it’s not required for admission. Gain foundational knowledge on the theory, research and practice of education as it applies to health professions, and become an effective educator in the classroom and/or clinical environment. Take advantage of the flexibility and convenience of 100% online classes and 24/7 access to learning tools. Explore principles and methods of teaching and learning within a healthcare context, including engaging learning techniques, instructional technology, diversity topics, learner assessment and more. Learn from world-class and highly experienced faculty from UofL’s School of Medicine and College of Education Human Development. Start spring, summer or fall and earn your degree in about 2 years. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION 100% ONLINE COURSEWORK Complete the program on your own time through fully online classes. 11 COURSES Many courses available in 8-week accelerated terms. 5 STARTS PER YEAR Start when it’s right for you with Fall, Spring and Summer admits. "The goal of the HPE program is to magnify the impact of the health professions educator. Not only do health professions educators improve the outcomes of their patients, but they significantly improve the educational outcomes of the practitioner learners and impact the patients that those learners ultimately care for in the future." Staci Saner, Ed.D. Program Director Why earn a Health Professions Education degree? Employment in the healthcare industry is booming, with expected growth of 2.6 million jobs from 2020 to 2030 (bls.gov). The need for health professions educators is greater than ever as we train the next generation of healthcare providers. The curriculum within UofL’s MSHPE program will equip you with the skills and expertise to be a highly effective health professions educator. Furthermore, many accrediting bodies are moving towards requesting background knowledge in teaching and learning for health professions educators, so this degree can assist in advancing your career long-term as well. What ways can I benefit from a Master’s in Health Professions Education? Becoming the education leader within your health system will impact not only the future of the healthcare professionals you mentor but also of the patients and organization. Earning your master’s in HPE can also increase your potential earnings. Many graduates become postsecondary health specialties instructors, which have an average annual salary of $124,890 (bls.gov). Other occupation opportunities include, but not limited to: Clinical educator Healthcare education researcher Program director Academic medical and dental faculty Fellowship program director Clerkship director START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Application Deadline Term Start Date August 1 Fall I August September 10 Fall II October December 10 Spring I January February 10 Spring II March May 1 Summer June Note: Admissions are on a rolling basis. The preferred deadlines help you complete the application process on time, be notified of acceptance, and enroll before the term begins. Although admissions are granted for a specific term up to the day classes start, we recommend you submit your complete application well in advance of the preferred deadline, as obtaining transcripts and other materials may take more time. Steps to Apply Complete online graduate application Submit $65 non-refundable application fee Submit official transcripts from all previous institutions Submit additional documentation listed below GRE test scores are not required. Note: Electronic transcripts are only accepted directly from the institution(s). Please have electronic transcripts sent to adetran@louisville.edu. START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Admission Requirements Current CV Two letters of recommendation from persons familiar with your academic or professional work Personal Statement written by the applicant that is a clear, substantive description of your goals within health professions education For applicants without a terminal degree (examples: DMD, DHS, MD), applicant can still be considered on a case-by case basis. It is recommended but not required to have a minimum GPA of 2.5. The online MSHPE program is a 33-credit hour (11 course) program that incorporates 15 credit hours of core health professions education courses, 9 credit hours of higher education courses, 6 credit hours of electives, and 1 exit requirement. Core Courses Core Courses Hours Health Professions Education Core 15 LEAD 607 Principles of Educational Leadership 3 LEAD 665 Foundations of Health Professions Education 3 LEAD 675 Teaching & Learning in Health Professions Education 3 LEAD 676 Instructional Strategies in Health Professions Education 3 LEAD 685 Evidence-based Practice in Health Professions Education (HPE Capstone) 3 Education Core 9 LEAD 666 Program Development & Assessment in Higher Education 3 LEAD 694 Diversity in Higher Education 3 LEAD 661 Adult & Organizational Learning OR LEAD 681 Philosophy of Higher Education 3 Electives & Exit Requirement 9 Electives (course options listed below) 6 LEAD 697 Professional Project in Higher Education Exit Requirement 3 Total Credit Hours Required in Program 33 Elective Courses Core List Hours LEAD 600 Introduction to Research Methods and Statistics 3 LEAD 661 Adult & Organizational Learning (if not taken in the Core) 3 LEAD 668 Academic Advising 3 LEAD 670 Instructional Strategies 3 LEAD 678 American College and University 3 LEAD 681 Philosophy of Higher Education (if not taken in the Core) 3 LEAD 683 College Teaching 3 LEAD 687 Education Policy and Equity 3 START YOUR APPLICATION REQUEST INFORMATION Course Descriptions Who is the M.S. in Health Professions Education program for? This program is designed for any faculty in the health professions that has a teaching component in their work assignment and would like to a become better educator. Examples include: Physicians Residents and Fellows Physician Assistants Nurses Clinician Educators, Clinical Preceptors/Supervisors Allied Health Professionals Department Chairs and Program Directors Is the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) required? No, the GRE is not required to be admitted to this program. However, if you do not have a terminal degree or a GPA of 2.5 or higher, it is recommended to submit your GRE score with your application. Is there a part-time option? Yes, you can complete the program as a part-time student. Is the program open to international students? Yes, this program is available to international students. Do I need to have teaching experience to be accepted into the program? No, you are not required to have any teaching experience to be accepted into this program. Is financial aid available for this program? Yes, for more information and how to apply visit https://louisville.edu/online/tuition?tab=aid. Tuition remission is also available to all full-time and most part-time University of Louisville employees. Books and/or other course materials must be purchased by participants. Do I take the courses in a particular order? LEAD 685 must be taken after LEAD 665, 675, and 676. LEAD 697 must be the last course as the exit requirement course. All other courses can be taken in any order. Who do I contact for more information? Getting in touch with your enrollment counselor is a great first step! Erin can be reached at online@louisville.edu or 800.871.8635. Overview Outcomes Admissions Courses TEAM FAQ 800.871.8635 2301 S. 3rd St. Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 online@louisville.edu Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link Linkedin Button Link Linkedin Button Link University of Louisville is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) Copyright © - University of Louisville, Delphi Center | Privacy Policy Contact Information 800.871.8635 online@louisville.edu 2301 S. 3rd St. Ekstrom Library, Belknap Campus Louisville, KY 40292 Facebook Button Link Twitter Button Link LinkedIn Button Link Youtube Button Link