Future Students Current Students Alumni & Donors Make a Gift Institutes & Centers Center for Health Hazards Preparedness Statistical Consulting Center Commonwealth Institute of Kentucky Youth Violence Prevention Research Center Center for Health Organization Transformation Frazier Polypharmacy Program Departments Department of Bioinformatics & Biostatistics Department of Epidemiology & Population Health Department of Health Management & Systems Sciences Department of Health Promotion & Behavioral Sciences About Academics Research Partnerships News Directory Contact 2022 KPHA Annual Conference Posters & Presentations Search: Search Go All UofLSPHIS Upcoming Events 14 Jun Virtual MSHA Information Session 06:00 PM - 07:00 PM Full event schedule SPHIS Home » News » 2022 KPHA Annual Conference Posters & Presentations 2022 KPHA Annual Conference Posters & Presentations ORAL PRESENTATIONS “Creating a student-centered public health practice experience with your area health department.” Interested in training the next generation of public health professionals? Learn how to create a dynamic student practice experience with your area health department. Presenters: Tammi Thomas, PhD, MSSW, and Linda Omer, PhD “Measuring Cross-Sector Alignment with Network Analysis: Lessons from the SHERO Study” The SHERO (Strengthening Health Equity in Recovery Outcomes) Study examines systems of care that serve pregnant and parenting women in recovery, specifically assessing cross-sector alignment in both rural and urban contexts. The study centers around Freedom House (FH), an evidence-based model to provide substance use treatment and parenting supports for women and their families, focusing on FH’s coordinated efforts with public health, healthcare, and social services organizations in two communities. The study is guided by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation’s Framework for Cross-Sector Alignment and uses social network analysis to evaluate and visualize the community networks. Presenter: Madeline Shipley, BS “Black Lives Matter, COVID, and the Lived Experiences of African American Mothers/Caregivers in Louisville, Kentucky.” African American (AA) mothers and caregivers confront myriad challenges to raising their children. Structural and systemic racism, police violence, economic insecurity, COVID, and unequal access to healthcare are added pressures these women confront. In this photovoice project, AA women utilized photography and narratives to describe their lived experiences. Using a community-based participatory research approach, researchers at Louisville worked with staff at the Bridges of Hope Neighborhood Place. African America mothers/caregivers were recruited and developed themes for their photo stories, curating and narrating their experiences. Presenter: Toluwani E. Adekunle- MA, MBA, MPH, PhD Student, Dept. of Health Promotion and Behavioral Sciences; A. Scott LaJoie, PhD, MSPH “Exploring Service Provider Perspectives on Facilitators and Barriers to Syringe Service Program Participation by Females who Inject Drugs” As the opioid epidemic lingers on across the country, areas have set up syringe services programs (SSPs) to combat the consequences of injection drug use. Most substance abuse research is gender neutral which makes it difficult to discern issues specifically related to females. Females who inject drugs are an underserved and marginalized population who are viewed as bridges to disease because of their involvement in multiple social networks. They endure heightened consequences associated with injection drug use. This presentation will discuss data collected from SSP staff from Kentucky and the seven bordering states about facilitators and barriers to SSP usage by females who inject drugs. Presenter: Tammi Thomas Tammi Alvey Thomas, PhD, MSSW POSTER PRESENTATIONS “Racial Disparities and the Effect of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act on Glioblastoma Multiforme Cancer Care and Outcomes" We aimed in the study to look at the rate of surgery and survival within one year following Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) diagnosis ten years (2000-2209) before the signing/implementation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA), during the signing period (2010-2013), and during the implementation phase (2014-2018). We evaluated racial disparities both in surgical and survival rates. After the PPACA was signed into law, the percentage of those who underwent surgery significantly increased compared to before signing PPACA. The overall median survival increased significantly by two months in 2010- 2013 and three months in 2014-2018 when compared to 2000-2009. - Sonali S. Salunkhe, MD, MPH, Department of Health Management & Systems Sciences - Sahal Alzahrani, MSc, Department of Health Management & Systems Sciences - Denghzi Wang, MS, Department of Neurosurgery, Kentucky Spinal Cord Injury Research Center - Maxwell Boakye, MD, MPH, Department of Neurosurgery, Kentucky Spinal Cord Injury Research Center - Beatrice Ugiliweneza, PhD, MSPH, Assistant Professor, Department of Neurosurgery, Kentucky Spinal Cord Injury Research Center “COVID-19 Vaccine Status in US Sexual and Gender Minorities with Disabilities” Disability can increase the risk of negative health outcomes from COVID-19. We explored whether disability status influenced vaccine acceptance among a sample of 838 sexual and gender minorities. Due to oversampling, 2/3rds of survey respondents were unvaccinated. Nearly 1 in 4 respondents (n=198) indicated having physical, emotional, and/or cognitive disabilities. Of these 198, 75 (37.9%) were vaccinated; of 640 respondents without a disability, 123 (31.4%) were vaccinated [Fisher's exact test (p=0.055, one-tailed).] Both vaccinated and unvaccinated, with or without a disability, indicated short-term and long-term effects of the vaccine as reasons for avoidance or initial hesitancy to get the vaccine. - Susann D. Thomas, MED, MA - Diane Zero, PHD. - Ahmed A. Alobaydullah, MS - Rebekah Lamb, BA - Toluwani E. Adekunle,MA, MBA, MPH - Ryan Combs, PHD - A. Scott LaJoie, PHD, MSPH “Disparities in Mortality Between Appalachian and non-Appalachian regions of Kentucky" The opioid epidemic is a significant public health crisis faced by the United States, and some areas in the country are suffering more than others. This study aimed to compare all-cause, drug and opioid related mortality between Appalachian non-metro, Appalachian metro, non-Appalachian non-metro, and non-Appalachian metro counties of Kentucky. The study demonstrated significant intra-state differences in Kentucky in all-cause, drug-, and opioid-related mortalities, with the Appalachian region showing significantly higher mortalities (all-cause, drug-related, and opioid-related) when compared to the non-Appalachian regions of Kentucky. - Sonali S. Salunkhe, MD, MPH, Department of Health Management & Systems Sciences - Sahal Alzahrani, MSc, Department of Health Management & Systems Sciences - Beatrice Ugiliweneza, PhD, MSPH, Assistant Professor, Department of Neurosurgery, Kentucky Spinal Cord Injury Research Center “COVID-19 Vaccine Uptake in US Sexual and Gender Minorities (SGMs) Across Education Levels” Sexual and gender minorities (SGMs) experience extensive health disparities and medical mistrust. Initial survey data measuring vaccine hesitancy in SGMs indicates a correlation between education level and vaccine uptake. Fully vaccinated were more likely to have at least a 2-year college degree (47.8%) vs. those not fully vaccinated (30.1%), χ2 (1, N = 834) = 25.97, p<.001. Of respondents with a graduate level of education, 53.6% reported being vaccinated. No vaccinated participant held less than an 8th grade education. Logistic regression showed less education (OR=.41) and younger age (OR=.63) were associated with being unvaccinated (p<.01). - Rebekah Lamb, BA - Scott LaJoie PhD, MSPH - Ahmed A, Alobaydullah, MS - Ryan Combs, PhD, MA - Diane Zero, PhD, Med “HPV Vaccination and Cervical Cancer Screening for Kentucky Refugee Populations” This session highlights the findings from a Participatory Research Action study that utilized interviews, focus group discussions, and global level assessments to identify the determinants of HPV vaccination and cervical cancer screening among diverse refugee populations served by Catholic Charities in Louisville Kentucky. Refugee populations often come from resource limited areas with limited access to HPV vaccines and cervical cancer screening services. Evidence shows that they continue to show low vaccination and screening rates when they move to the United States. - Toluwani E. Adekunle, MA, MBA, PhD Student, Department of Health Promotion and Behavioral Sciences - Dana Seay, PhD Student, Department of Health Promotion and Behavioral Sciences - A. Scott LaJoie, PhD, MSPH “Cross-Sector Alignment: Urban-Rural Differences among Organizations Serving Pregnant and Parenting Women in Recovery” The SHERO (Strengthening Health Equity in Recovery Outcomes) Study examines systems of care that serve pregnant and parenting women in recovery, specifically assessing cross-sector alignment in both rural and urban contexts. The study centers around Freedom House (FH), an evidence-based model to provide substance use treatment and parenting supports for women and their families, focusing on FH’s coordinated efforts with public health, healthcare, and social services organizations in two communities. The study is guided by the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation’s Framework for Cross-Sector Alignment and uses social network analysis to evaluate and visualize the community networks. - Madeline Shipley, BS - Liza M. Creel, Ph.D. - Yana Feygin - Scott D Duncan, MD, MHA, FAAP. - Deborah Davis, Ph. D. - Tiffany C. Hall, LCSW, LCADC. - Stephanie L. Hoskins, LCADC, LPCA, CSS. - Chaly Downs “Fight the Stigma: Translational HIV Education for African Americans through Art” Though there have been significant strides to end the HIV/AIDS epidemic, African Americans continue to suffer disparately from HIV. Persistent barriers, like stigma, exist and hinder prevention efforts such as Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP). In celebration of World AIDS Day 2021, the Fighting Injustices Among African American Youth (FIAAY) project hosted a knowledge translation activity utilizing art therapy (Paint and Sip). The purpose of this activity was to increase community knowledge and awareness about HIV/AIDS, PrEP, and to reduce HIV/AIDS stigma. In conclusion, future practices should explore similar approaches to better engage audiences in HIV/AIDS programming and educate communities about PrEP. - Jason A. Deakings, MSPH - Kelsey Burton, MPH - Adrienne Smith, MPH - Kendria Kelly-Taylor, MSPH - Nana Ama Bullock, MPH - Jelani Kerr, PhD, MSPH “Illustrating our story: Using photovoice to depict hope and equity in various U.S. communities” Community-based participatory research (CBPR) has become an evolving public health methodology serving as a foundation to ignite community action and social change. Photovoice, one research tool applied in CBPR, utilizes photography and narratives to address issues by promoting dialogue through visual representation. A critical component of photovoice, the exhibition, is often excluded, minimizing its ability to facilitate actionable change. In collaboration with the Humana Foundation, doctoral students at UofL created a photovoice exhibition showcasing nine community organizations and their position on two questions, “Where do you see hope in your community?” and “What makes a more equitable community?”. - Kendria Kelly-Taylor, MSPH - Jason Deakings, MSPH - Alice Story, MPH, JM - Nana Ama Bullock, MPH - Shakeyrah Elmore, MS - Aishia A. Brown, PhD - Brandy Kelly Pryor, PhD “The Maternal Mortality Crisis in Kentucky” Kentucky's maternal mortality rate is among the highest in the nation at 40.8 per 100,000 live births, compared with a national rate of 17.4. The reasons for this high rate are multi-dimensional and more than clinical in nature. This poster explores maternal mortality in Kentucky, including causes, practice and policy actions taken to date, and recommendations for improving data capacity to better address maternal mortality. - Melissa Eggen, MPH - Liza Creel, MPH, PhD - Noemi Stanev, MBA, MPA “Residence in Urban or Rural Counties in relation to Opioid Overdose Mortality in Kentucky before and during the COVID-19 Pandemic” At the beginning of the opioid epidemic, opioid overdose death rates were higher in urban than in rural areas; however, the rise of illicitly manufactured opioids reversed this trend. We examined the association between urban residence and subsequent opioid overdose mortality in Kentucky, a state highly impacted by the opioid epidemic, and whether this was modified by the COVID-19 pandemic. - Lyndsey Blair, MPH, Doctoral Candidate - Liza Creel, PhD, MPH - Nicholas Peiper, PhD, MPH - Bert Little, MA, PhD, FAAAS, FRAI, FRSM, FRSPH - Kira Taylor, PhD, MS - Richard Baumgartner, PhD - Jeff Howard, MD, MPH - Natalie Dupre, ScD “Modification of the Relationship between Environmental Noise and Prevalence of Mental Ill-Health by Neighborhood Income and Race in Louisville, Kentucky” Few studies have examined environmental noise exposure on adult mental ill-health. We estimated the association of winter and spring environmental noise with mental ill-health prevalence at Louisville, KY census tracts using multivariable linear regression models adjusted for confounders and assessed if the associations differed by income and race. Increased winter and spring noise was associated with higher prevalence of adult mental ill-health. The association was stronger among tracts of lower income and lower white population. Economic and sociodemographic factors may be important modifiers of the noise-mental health relationship. - Lindsey A. Wood, MS - Jeremy Gaskins, PhD - Kira C. Taylor, PhD - Brian Guinn, PhD - Ray Yeager, PhD - Natalie C. DuPre, ScD "An Exploration of Geographic and Racial/Ethnic Disparities in VBAC: A Review of the Literature" - Melissa Eggen, MPH - J’Aime Jennings, PhD "Nutrition-Related Health Outcomes in Low-Income Youth: A Literature Review" - Mary Curnutte, MS, RD, LD Stay connected © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone