Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Student Financial Aid Office Navigation Home Financial Aid: Start to Finish Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Financial Aid: Start to FinishFinancial Aid: Start to Finish Dropdown Toggle Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Loans Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment LoansLoans Dropdown Toggle Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment Grants Work Study Scholarships and Other Resources Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments Scholarships and Other ResourcesScholarships and Other Resources Dropdown Toggle Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments State Aid KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change State AidState Aid Dropdown Toggle KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change Tuition Waivers Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Tuition WaiversTuition Waivers Dropdown Toggle Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Verification Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf VerificationVerification Dropdown Toggle Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Satisfactory Academic ProgressSatisfactory Academic Progress Dropdown Toggle Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Summer Financial Aid Competency Based Education—Healthcare Leadership Flex Option Program Consumer Information Net Price Calculator ED Net Price Calculator Net Price CalculatorNet Price Calculator Dropdown Toggle ED Net Price Calculator Other Information Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Other InformationOther Information Dropdown Toggle Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Financial Wellness Contact Us Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Contact UsContact Us Dropdown Toggle Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Reporting Tuition Waivers Tuition Waivers Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Dependent or Spouse of Veteran KRS 164. 505 (adobe pdf)- Waiver of tuition for dependents, widow, or widower of members of the Armed Forces or of members of the National Guard killed while in service or having died as a result of a service-connected disability. To apply, you must contact the Kentucky Department of Veteran’s Affairs at 502-595-4447 or print the Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application form (adobe pdf) and mail it to the Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs (address is located on the top of page 2). Documentation needed: Copy of Certified Application form issued by the Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs. Eligibility: Unlimited tuition benefits. Tuition benefits are paid directly to the University of Louisville. Tuition benefits can not be paid to any other institutions, regardless of consortium, study abroad, and/or other programs for which tuition is not billed to the university. KRS 164.507 (adobe pdf) – Waiver of tuition for spouse or child of deceased veteran of war. To apply, you must contact the Kentucky Department of Veteran’s Affairs at 502-595-4447 or print theKentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application form (adobe pdf) and mail it to the Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs (address is located on the top of page 2). Documentation needed: Copy of Certified Application form issued by the Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs AND note of relationship (spouse or child). Eligibility: For Spouse: 45 months (which equates to roughly 11 semesters) of tuition benefits towards the completion of a current degree at the time of certificate issuance, unless remarried (not eligible upon remarriage regardless of semesters used). For Child: 45 months (which equates to roughly 11 semesters) of tuition benefits towards the completion of a current degree at the time of certificate issuance before their 26th birthday (not eligible after 26th birthday regardless of semesters used). If effective date of the tuition waiver is prior to the date of issuance to the university please contact the Financial Aid Office, 852-8379. Tuition benefits are paid directly to the University of Louisville. Tuition benefits can not be paid to any other institutions, regardless of consortium, study abroad, and/or other programs for which tuition is not billed to the university. KRS 164.512 (adobe pdf) – Waiver of tuition for disabled child of a veteran. To apply, you must contact the Kentucky Department of Veteran’s Affairs at 502-595-4447 or print the Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application form (adobe pdf) and mail it to the Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs (address is located on the top of page 2). Documentation needed: Copy of Certified Application form issued by the Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs. Eligibility: Unlimited tuition benefits. Tuition benefits are paid directly to the University of Louisville. Tuition benefits can not be paid to any other institutions, regardless of consortium, study abroad, and/or other programs for which tuition is not billed to the university. KRS 164.515 (adobe pdf) - Waiver of tuition for spouse or child of a member of National Guard, war veteran, prisoner of war permanently disabled while in service, or member of the Armed Services missing in action. To apply, you must contact the Kentucky Department of Veteran’s Affairs at 502-595-4447 or print the Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application form (adobe pdf) and mail it to the Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs (address is located on the top of page 2). Documentation needed: Copy of Certified Application form issued by the Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs AND note of relationship (spouse or child). Eligibility: For Spouse: 45 months (which equates to roughly 11 semesters) of tuition benefits towards the completion of a current degree at the time of certificate issuance, unless remarried (not eligible upon remarriage regardless of semesters used). For Child: 45 months (which equates to roughly 11 semesters) of tuition benefits towards the completion of a current degree at the time of certificate issuance before their 26th birthday (not eligible after 26th birthday regardless of semesters used). If effective date of the tuition waiver is prior to the date of issuance to the university please contact the Financial Aid Office, 852-8379. Tuition benefits are paid directly to the University of Louisville. Tuition benefits can not be paid to any other institutions, regardless of consortium, study abroad, and/or other programs for which tuition is not billed to the university. Dependent or Spouse of Police Officer, Firefighter, or State Employee The University will determine a student’s eligibility for these waivers based on the documentation provided. The employer of the parent or spouse can be contacted for documentation. KRS 164.2841 (adobe pdf) - Waiver of tuition for survivor of police officer, firefighter, volunteer firefighter, or state employee killed in the line of duty. To apply, you must complete the Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters and submit all of the documentation listed below to the Student Financial Aid Office at U of L, attention: KRS Coordinator. Documentation needed: Letter from the agency that employed the deceased or other appropriate agency regarding service, and cause of death (must reference “in the line of duty”). For Child: Proof of parent child relationship by birth certificate, adoption paper, or other documentary evidence. For Spouse: Proof of spousal relationship by a marriage certificate or other documentary evidence. Eligibility: Unlimited tuition benefits. Tuition benefits are paid directly to the University of Louisville. Tuition benefits can not be paid to any other institutions, regardless of consortium, study abroad, and/or other programs for which tuition is not billed to the university. KRS 164.2842 (adobe.pdf): - Waiver of tuition for spouse or child of police officer, firefighter, volunteer firefighter, or state employee permanently and totally disabled in the line of duty. To apply, you must complete the Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters and submit all of the documentation listed below to the Student Financial Aid Office at U of L, attention: KRS Coordinator. Documentation needed: Letter from the agency of employment or other appropriate agency regarding service and cause of disability (must reference “in the line of duty”). For Child: Proof of parent child relationship by birth certificate, adoption paper, or other documentary evidence. For Spouse: Proof of spousal relationship by a marriage certificate or other documentary evidence. Eligibility: For Spouse: 36 months (which equates to roughly 9 semesters) of tuition benefits towards the completion of a current degree at the time of eligibility determination, unless remarried (not eligible upon remarriage regardless of semesters used). For Child: 36 months (which equates to roughly 9 semesters) of tuition benefits towards the completion of a current degree at the time of eligibility determination before their 23rd birthday (not eligible after 23rd birthday regardless of semesters used). Tuition benefits are paid directly to the University of Louisville. Tuition benefits can not be paid to any other institutions, regardless of consortium, study abroad, and/or other programs for which tuition is not billed to the university. Important Contacts: • Kentucky Retirement Systems at 502-564-4646 • Kentucky Commission on Fire Protection Personnel Standards and Education at 1-800-782-6823. Supervising and Resource Teachers KRS 164.2845 (adobe pdf) - In recognition of valuable service to the preparation of teachers and the need for all teachers to have continual professional growth, a supervising teacher or a resource teacher for teacher interns may, with prior approval of the course-offering institution, take a maximum of six (6) credit hours per term at any public postsecondary institution and pay no tuition. The postsecondary institution shall waive the tuition up to a maximum of six (6) credit hours. To apply, you must complete the Tuition Waiver Certification for Supervising and Resource Teachers Application (adobe pdf). It should be completed by the supervising teacher, certified by their principal, and returned to our office. Return the form to the Student Financial Aid Office at U of L. Please be aware that all applications must be received prior to the end of the registration period for the term you are requesting the credits be applied. Charges will NOT be paid for any forms received after the end of the registration period. Additionally, forms received with signature dates earlier than the stated completion date will not be accepted. Eligibility: Credit hours earned are calculated as follows (benefit is based on the duration of the role rather than the number of student teachers): Spring 2016 service and after: 5-9 weeks = 3 credit hours, 10-15 weeks = 6 credit hours Maximum of 12 credit hours can be earned for an academic year. Students may exercise the tuition waiver option up to twelve months following the assignment. Tuition benefits are paid directly to the University of Louisville. Tuition benefits can not be paid to any other institutions, regardless of consortium, study abroad, and/or other programs for which tuition is not billed to the university. Students are responsible for any additional fees not included in tuition charges. Kentucky Foster and Adopted Children KRS 164.2847 (adobe pdf) - Waiver of all or a portion of tuition for Kentucky foster and adopted children affiliated with the Cabinet for Families and Children (CFC) or the Department for Juvenile Justice (DJJ). Print the Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children (adobe pdf) complete section 1, and sign. Return the form to the Student Financial Aid Office at UofL. Incoming freshmen, please note: The Cabinet for Health and Family Services begins reviewing tuition waiver applications the January before your high school graduation. You may complete and send your application to our office on or after January 1. Eligibility: For 150 consecutive or nonconsecutive credit hours earned or up to age 28. Student is not eligible if initial admittance to institution occurs more than 4 years after high school graduation date. Eligibility is based upon current unmet cost of attendance, as defined in federal regulations, after financial aid from all other sources is evaluated and applied. The student must complete the FAFSA each year and be awarded aid, before this determination will be made. Tuition benefits are paid directly to the University of Louisville. Tuition benefits cannot be paid to any other institutions, regardless of consortium, study abroad, and/or other programs for which tuition is not billed to the university. Important Contacts: • Cabinet for Health and Family Services 1-800-232-5437 Senior Citizen The University offers tuition remission to individuals who are classified by Admissions as residents of Kentucky and are at least 65 years of age on, or before, the first day of classes for the semester. Special costs, such as course fees and parking, are not covered by this program and are the financial responsibility of the student. Proof of age may be shown by presenting a driver’s license or other age verification document at the Office of the Bursar. CTE Teachers Contact the Student Financial Aid Office for more information. Free Adobe PDF Reader How may we assist you? Email Service A dedicated student and communication service account is monitored by a team equipped to provide assistance to students. Email Financial Aid Service at: finaid@louisville.edu Call Center A dedicated call center is available to assist with all phone inquiries. Call Student Financial Aid at: (502) 852-5511 © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville