No images? Click here October 11, 2021 To better view this newsletter click on the "No Images?" link in the upper right corner of this newsletter. To see previous issues, go to: louisville.edu/student/studentnews SGA SGA Week Join the Student Government Association for a week long of events! From October 12–14, speak with SGA Top 4 on how to get involved with SGA, Student Senate, Academics, and Services. Free food and giveaways provided! Schedule: Tuesday, Oct 12, Student Senate, 5:30pm, Red Barn Wednesday, Oct 13, Academic: Libraries, Classes, Faculty, 4:30pm, SAC W116 Thursday Oct 14, Services: Housing, Dining, Parking, 4:30pm, SAC W118 ACADEMICS Info session for Master of Public Health Join Dr. Brian Guinn & Bryan Mathis from the School of Public Health & Information Sciences for more information about the Master of Public Health program at UofL. This degree provides students an opportunity to find practical solutions that address challenges in protecting the health of the public. Friday, October 15 at Noon in Ekstrom Library W210. louisville.edu/sphis/academics/mph-program Public Health Preview Day Plan to attend the virtual Public Health Preview Day on November 6, 9 a.m. to learn about the various study options and career opportunities in the field of public health. RSVP required. louisville.edu/sphis/events/fall-public-health-preview-day EVENTS Pop-Up Plant Clinic Do you have a sick plant? Need advice on how to care for the sick plant? Bring your plant to us! We will be situated in the lobby of Community Park. When: Wednesday, October 13, 4–6 PM Where: Community Park Student Housing Scan the QR code to RSVP. Walk-ins are welcome. louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/event/7478142 Student Anti-Racism virtual workshops Learn powerful and practical tools to effectively respond to interpersonal and systemic racism. Engaging workshops led by UL Students. Thursdays from 1–2:30pm. Oct. 14, 21, and 28 OR Nov. 4, 11, and 18. Register Here: louisvillekent.az1.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_b87JT1BvpGVudMy Women's Self-Defense class The ULPD will conduct a Self-Defense (R.A.D) class. This is a comprehensive 9-hour course that begins with awareness, prevention, risk reduction and avoidance while progressing on to the basics of hands-on defense training on Tuesday nights, from 5p–8p, starting Oct 26 to Nov 9. CLUBS, GROUPS, & ORGANIZATIONS UofL Student Parent Visibility Day Are you a student parent or a supporter? Stop by this annual event sponsored by the Women's Center & Student Parent Association. October 27, 11 a.m., MPR of the new Cultural & Equity Center. Meet and mingle with other student-parents, create friendships; vendors on hand to provide free resources. louisville.edu/womenscenter SERVICE Trunk or Treat VOLUNTEERS NEEDED. Mortar Board is bringing back Trunk or Treat. Sunday, October 17, 4:00–6:00 at the Cardinal Stadium Parking Lot. Contact Reilly Brown at rebrow12@louisville.edu or 502-619-3038. Be an L Raiser ambassador during Raise Some L Raise Some L, UofL's annual day of giving, begins Oct. 19 at 6:02 p.m. and continues for 1,798 minutes. Students are invited to become L Raiser ambassadors to help us spread the word. Top L Raisers are eligible to receive additional challenge funds for the areas most important to them. louisville.scalefunder.com/gday/giving-day/41929/signup WELLNESS, FITNESS, & SPORTS Free mobile-friendly help Sign-up today for Therapy Assistance Online (TAO) at US.TAOconnect.org/register. If you need extra help, call the Counseling Center at 502-852-6585. We got you covered! Spikeball tournament Come out on Sept. 12 from 5:00–7:00 on the SRC Turf Field to play Spikeball. Open play will be from 5:00–6:00 followed by a tournament of available teams. There is no need to sign up. Just come out to play with your friends. The winners of the tournament will receive free UofL Volleyball shirts. Cards Gone Global Night Men’s Soccer is hosting Cards Gone Global night Tuesday night at 7 p.m. as they take on Eastern Illinois. Come down to Dr. Mark and Cindy Lynn Stadium! Admission is free. October Challenge Month: Push-Up Challenge Join us Wednesday at the SRC for a push-up challenge. How manty push ups can you do in 60 seconds? There will be 1 male and 1 female winner! Oct 13, noon, Student Recreation Center louisville.edu/intramurals/fitness/src-group-fitness Intramural Volleyball sign-ups The deadline to sign-up for Intramural Volleyball is Wednesday, October 13 at 4:30 P.M. Games will start on October 18 and will take place Monday–Thursday anytime after 5:00. Each team gets 4 games followed by a tournament. Sign-up on IMLeagues.com/louisville. Free agents are welcome. Indoor Soccer sign-ups The deadline to sign up for Intramural Indoor Soccer is Wednesday, October 13 at 4:30 P.M. Games will start on October 18 and will take place Monday–Thursday anytime after 5:00. Each team gets 4 games followed by a tournament. Sign up on IMLeagues.com/louisville. Free agents are welcome. Cancer Awareness Night at Lynn Stadium Cancer Awareness Night at Dr. Mark and Cindy Lynn Stadium is this Friday, Oct 15. The Women’s Soccer team host Boston College at 4 p.m. The Men’s Soccer team host North Carolina at 7 p.m. Admission is free. Men's Basketball scrimmage The University of Louisville men's basketball team will compete in the Louisville Basketball Team 108 Tip-Off intrasquad scrimmage in the KFC Yum! Center on Oct. 16 at 1 p.m. UofL students tickets are no charge. Students may obtain up to two tickets through their My Cardinals Account. Men's Rugby Club to face Western Michigan The Men's Rugby Club will face Western Michigan this Saturday afternoon at 1:00pm at Hays/Kennedy Park. Admission is free and open to the public. Come support the nationally-ranked Cards as they take on the Broncos in exciting Rugby action. SUSTAINABILITY Valeryia K. wins Cards Commuter Challenge Challengers logged 1094 trips on foot, bike, bus, or carpool, covering 11,246 miles, preventing 8,137 lbs of CO2 pollution, saving $5,505, and burning 101,600 calories. Congrats to Grand Prize $250 raffle winner, Junior Valeryia Kukharskaya, who logged 32 carpools. Find options at directions.louisville.edu OTHER NEWS More than a place to live Campus Housing is more than a place to live. It is a place to form long-lasting relationships, find employment opportunities, engage in social programming, establish connections, and much more. By calling UofL home, students open the door to endless opportunities to succeed as a Card. Read The Cardinal Edge's first issue We are proud of the undergraduate students who submitted to our journal and our journal staff who have worked tirelessly to ensure a successful publication. Please visit the link to read about the research efforts from UofL's undergraduate students. Follow @thecardinaledge on Instagram for updates. ir.library.louisville.edu/tce/ Mind-body connection research study Participate in a two-session study (45mins; 45mins) by the Department of Counseling and Human Development to uncover how mental health affects physical functioning and health risks of young adults, ages 18-39. Participants will receive a $25 gift card. IRB#21.0432. To find out more, email: mbstudy@Louisville.edu ASK THE ADVOCATE Q. I am not doing well in a class. Is there somewhere I can go on campus for help? A. REACH is a great resource for students who need academic help. REACH offers study sessions and tutoring for 100, 200, and some 300 level undergraduate classes, academic skills development, workshops and graduate/professional test prep, and more. For more information visit www.reach.louisville.edu or call 502.852.6706. DID YOU KNOW? Find out about hot topics in health, emergency procedures, health promotion, and more. There is an informative website for Campus Health Services at louisville.edu/campushealth CHECK UNIVERSITY EMAIL REGULARLY and CONSULT BLACKBOARD CLICK HERE to learn how to hold a Virtual Meeting with your friends, classmates, and student organization members You are receiving this email because you are a student at the University of Louisville. By unsubscribing, you agree to no longer receive important university information, some required by federal or state laws which may including information about financial aid, programs, activities, ticket offers, weather, parking, events, and important enrollment information. Forward The University of Louisville Student Affairs, Suite W301 2100 S. Floyd St., Louisville, KY 40208 Unsubscribe