Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Research and Innovation Navigation Home About Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program AboutAbout Dropdown Toggle Metrics Events and Trainings News Stories Grand Challenges Research Challenge Trust Fund Office Announcements Publications and Reports Research Town Hall Meetings University of Louisville Scholar and Distinguished Scholar Program Researchers Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway ResearchersResearchers Dropdown Toggle Find Funding Proposal Development and Submission Compliance and Regulatory IRB Submissions Non-Funded Agreements Grants Management Hiring and Purchasing Innovation and Commercialization Industry Partnerships Clinical Trials Research Centers and Institutes Research Cores Publishing and Presenting Training and Workshops Research Handbook Grand Challenges / Research Priorities Policies UofL Research Gateway Industry Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started IndustryIndustry Dropdown Toggle Sponsoring Research Licensing Technologies Launching a Startup Co-location and Land Working with our Students Research Centers and Institutes Research Capabilities Get started Students & Post-Docs Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Students & Post-DocsStudents & Post-Docs Dropdown Toggle Undergraduates Post-Docs Trainings and Workshops Participants Children in Research Open Trials ParticipantsParticipants Dropdown Toggle Children in Research Open Trials Contact Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup ContactContact Dropdown Toggle Offices and Staff Unit Research Offices Newsletter Signup Budget and Financials Indirect Costs / F&A RIF / Collaboration Fringe Rates Home / Researchers / Proposal Development and Submission / Budget and Financials / RIF / Collaboration RIF / Collaboration The percent RIF (formerly "collaboration") must total 100%, distributed among project PIs and Co-Is. This information determines the distribution of research infrastructure funds (RIF) and departmental research infrastructure funds (DRIF) which are a return of a portion of indirect costs to support efforts to secure and maintain extramurally funded activities. In short, a corresponding percentage of this money is returned to both your department and you for use to fund future work. The percent project contribution must total 100%, distributed among project PIs and Co-Is for the project, and must be greater than or equal to 1% for each individual investigator. This represents the contribution that each investigator will make to the project. It is based upon an agreement between the project’s PI(s) and Co-I(s). All PIs and Co-Is should report project contribution whether or not they are scheduled to receive RIF. Individual Research Infrastructure Funds (RIF) PURPOSE To provide funds to invest in the infrastructure that supports efforts to secure and maintain extramurally funded research programs. PROGRAM The fund is equivalent to 10% of facilities and administrative costs expended on extramural grants & contracts. Individual allocations to recipients are made by transferring funds to the RIF speed type at the close of the month in which the grant expenditures are made. Distribution is limited to Principal Investigators and Co-Investigators. Funds may be used for any expenditure related to the pursuit of research and scholarship except for faculty staff salaries derived from "hard money." Appropriate expenditures include non-recurring commitments to the following:items not covered as direct costs on grants and contracts, as well as"soft money" salaries for research personnel, research administrative support, supplies, travel, costs for equipment and maintenance. Summer salary for the recipient may be paid from these funds if approved, in advance, by the recipient's departmental chair and unit dean, and if all three parties agree to the research or scholarly product from the recipient's summer activities. Expenditure of funds must comply with all applicable laws, regulations, statutes and University policies. Upon departure of a RIF recipient from the university all remaining funds within the individual account will be returned to central administration. If the account is determined to have a deficit balance, that balance will be transferred to the associated DRIF account. PROCEDURE To make funds accessible to the recipient, a speed type is set up in the name of the recipient so that personnel of the recipient's department can initiate expenditures. Questions about the appropriate use of these funds or the establishment of the accounts for these funds should be addressed to Dr. Kevyn Merten in the Office of the Executive Vice President for Research and Innovation. Subject: Research Infrastructure | Program and Procedure | Responsible Office: Executive Vice President for Research and Innovation | Original Effective Date: 10-01-96 | Last Revised Date: 02-24-09; 08-26-15 | Departmental Individual Research Infrastructure Funds (DRIF) PURPOSE To provide funds to invest in the infrastructure that supports efforts to secure and maintain extramurally funded research programs. PROGRAM The fund is equivalent to 10% of facilities and administrative costs expended on extramural grants & contracts. Departmental allocations are made by transferring funds to the departmental RIF speed type at the close of the month in which the grant expenditures are made. Funds may be used for any expenditure related to the pursuit of research and scholarship except for faculty and staff salaries derived from "hard money." Appropriate expenditures include non-recurring commitments to the following: items not covered as direct costs on grants and contracts, as well as "soft money" salaries for research personnel, research administrative support, supplies, travel, costs for equipment and maintenance. Summer salary may be paid from these funds if approved, in advance, by the departmental chair and unit dean, and if all parties agree to the research or scholarly product from the recipient's summer activities. Expenditure of funds must comply with all applicable laws, regulations, statutes and University policies. PROCEDURE A continuing speed type is set up in the name of the Department so that departmental personnel can initiate expenditures. To continue in the DRIF program, the departmental administrative officer must submit a report to the dean, with a copy to the Executive Vice President for Research and Innovation, at the end of each fiscal year detailing how the funds were spent during the fiscal year. The report must indicate projected use of DRIF funds for the next fiscal year. Continuation in the program requires approval by the unit dean and the Executive Vice President for Research and Innovation that the funds were spent appropriately in the current fiscal year and the plans for the next fiscal year are appropriate. Departments that receive an allocation of $1,000 or less in a fiscal year are not required to submit a report. Questions about the appropriate use of these funds or the establishment of the accounts for these funds should be addressed to Dr. Kevyn Merten in the Office of the Executive Vice President for Research and Innovation. Subject: Research Infrastructure | Program and Procedure | Responsible Office: Executive Vice President for Research and Innovation | Original Effective Date: 10-01-96 | Last Revised Date: 01-20-09; 08-26-15 | Center/Institute Research Infrastructure Funds (CRIF) PURPOSE To provide funds to invest in the infrastructure that promotes interdisciplinary collaborations, supports Center/Institute research and educational activities and increases extramural funding. PROGRAM C-RIFs are not an entitlement and must be negotiated before the Center/Institute is established. The C-RIF percentage is an agreed upon percentage of facilities and administrative costs (F&A) expended on Center/Institute faculty extramural grants and contracts that are appropriate to the mission of the Center/Institute, receive full F&A, and are reportable to NSF in the Science and Engineering category of the NSF annual expenditure report. C-RIF are calculated on expenditures during the past fiscal year and allocations are transferred to the C-RIF speed type. C-RIFs will depend on fund availability and priority needs. They will also depend on periodic review of the success of the Center/Institute as indicated by preparation of program project grant applications and successful submission (funding) of such proposals. There is to be a formal letter of agreement between a faculty member and the Center/Institute Director acknowledging the collaborative interdisciplinary association. Commitment letters for Center/Institute faculty are to be kept on file and submitted to the Office of the Executive Vice President for Research and Innovation. If a faculty member belongs to two Centers, each will receive one-half of the calculated C-RIF dollar amounts of the F&A associated with expenditures on qualified awards in the past fiscal year. Funds may be used for any expenditure related to the pursuit of research and scholarship except for faculty and staff salaries derived from "hard money". Appropriate expenditures include non-recurring commitments to the following: items not allowed as direct costs on grants and contracts, as well as "soft money" salaries for research personnel, research administrative support, supplies, travel, seminar programs, pilot grants, costs for equipment and maintenance. Expenditure of funds must comply with all applicable laws, regulations, statutes and University policies. PROCEDURE A continuing speed type is set up in the name of the Center/Institute so that Center/Institute personnel can initiate expenditures. Funds will be made available each year, in October, after the Center/Institute has been established for a fiscal year. To continue in the C-RIF program, the Center/Institute administrative officer must submit a report to the Executive Vice President for Research and Innovation, with a copy, when appropriate, to the Executive Vice President for Health Affairs, at the end of each fiscal year detailing how the funds were spent during the fiscal year. The report must indicate projected use of C-RIF funds for the next fiscal year. Continuation in the program requires approval by the Executive Vice President for Research and Innovation that the funds were spent appropriately in the current fiscal year and the plans for the next fiscal year are appropriate. Additional approval of the Executive Vice President for Health Affairs is required for HSC Centers/Institutes. Centers/Institutes that receive an allocation of $1,000 or less in a fiscal year are not required to submit a report. Questions about the appropriate use of these funds or the establishment of the accounts for these funds should be addressed to Will Metcalf in the Office of the Executive Vice President for Research and Innovation. Subject: Research Infrastructure | Program and Procedure | Responsible Office: Executive Vice President for Research and Innovation | Original Effective Date: 05-14-99 | Last Revised Date: 01-20-09; 08-26-15 | Budget and Financials Indirect Costs / F&A RIF / Collaboration Fringe Rates CONTACT For more information or assistance with finding funding opportunities or developing proposals, please contact: Office of Research Development and Strategic Initiatives resdevel@louisville.edu Phone: 502.852.6512 Fax: 502.852.8361 FULL STAFF LISTING -> OFFICE OF RESEARCH & INNOVATION University of Louisville 300 E Market Street Louisville, Kentucky 40202 MORE INFORMATION Phone (Main) 502.852.6512, 502.852.8361 (Fax) Looking for a unit within the Office of Research and Innovation? Contact information here. Email Email Research and Innovation Service Account © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville