Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online New Cards Navigation Home I am a first-time freshman First-time-Freshman Checklist I am a first-time freshmanI am a first-time freshman Dropdown Toggle First-time-Freshman Checklist I am a transfer student Transfer/Adult Orientation - Spring 2022 Transfer/Adult Orientation - Summer/Fall 2022 Technology Requirements I am a transfer studentI am a transfer student Dropdown Toggle Transfer/Adult Orientation - Spring 2022 Transfer/Adult Orientation - Summer/Fall 2022 Technology Requirements I am a returning student Transfer & Adult Orientation Returning Student Guide Technology Requirements I am a returning studentI am a returning student Dropdown Toggle Transfer & Adult Orientation Returning Student Guide Technology Requirements I am a non-degree student Non-degree Student Guide Tuition costs/payment information I am a non-degree studentI am a non-degree student Dropdown Toggle Non-degree Student Guide Tuition costs/payment information Our Staff Become an SOSer Meet the 2022 SOSers Our StaffOur Staff Dropdown Toggle Become an SOSer Meet the 2022 SOSers First-time-Freshman Checklist Freshman Orientation (Summer/Fall) 2022 Freshman Orientation Dates Orientation Agenda Freshman Orientation FAQS Family Orientation Admitted Student FAQs Technology Requirements Orientation Parking and Directions Cards Camp 2022 Home / I am a first-time freshman / First-time-Freshman Checklist / Freshman Orientation (Summer/Fall) Freshman Orientation (Summer/Fall) We’re excited to see all incoming freshmen at New Cards Orientation this summer! Orientation is a required, two-day, on-campus experience at the University of Louisville.Designed to facilitate a successful college transition for incoming freshmen, programming includes presentations from and 1:1 discussion with various campus departments to learn about services and resources, provides opportunities for engagement and connection with current student mentors and other incoming freshmen, and academic program information, advising, and course enrollment. Dates Click here to find orientation dates currently available for each academic unit. There are a limited number of spaces available at each session based on student majors and admission to the university honors program Cost & Fees Freshman Orientation is $150 per student. (This fee covers four meals, program materials, overnight accommodations on campus and all staff and administrative fees associated with the program.) You may also register parents/guests for Family Orientation. Family Orientation is an optional, one-day program and is an additional $50 per guest registered. (This fee covers two meals, program materials and staff and administrative fees – overnight accommodations are provided for students only.) Please note that the family program is entirely separate from the student program, and is a concurrent session that takes place on day 1 of the student session. Student and Family Orientation are two entirely separate programs, and students can see their family member(s) at lunch and dinner. Fees, Cancellations and Refunds Policies Registration Please note: Students will not be able to register for orientation until their enrollment deposit is paid. Register for New Cards Orientation in your New Cards Gateway. Orientation registration will be available beginning February 20, 2022 at 10 am ET. Session Change Requests: If you would like to request a change to the date of your orientation session once you have registered, please complete a session change request. Your first session change request is free. Once processed, any subsequent requests will incur a $25 fee. What to Bring to Freshman Orientation Overnight linens (twin XL sheet, pillow, blanket – whatever you need to be comfortable for a one night stay in a traditional residence hall room!) Towels Toiletries Clothing appropriate for weather (umbrella, rain jacket, comfortable shoes) Driver’s license or some form of ID (for student ID pick-up) Username and passwords for ULink Financial Aid Verification (if required, you will have been notified via UofL Email) Cash for Orientation t-shirt ($10 each) Materials for taking notes Checkbook and/or credit card (if you would like to pre-order textbooks) List of questions Snacks Vehicle registration (Students interested in purchasing/ordering their on campus parking pass during New Student/Family Orientation need to bring a copy of their vehicle registration. This document is REQUIRED to complete the parking pass registration process.) Parking & Directions Click here to find information regarding parking at Freshman Orientation and directions. (Orientation is unable to cover costs of parking tickets if you fail to park in the designated parking area.) Check-in & Schedule Highlights Students are required to attend ALL Orientation programming, including the overnight stay on campus in one of our traditional residence halls. Student Day 1 Freshman Orientation will begin with check in at Kurz Hall at 7:00 a.m. EDT on the first day of your assigned session. Orientation programming will start promptly at 8:00 a.m. in the Student Activities Center. On the first day of orientation, students will hear from and learn about various campus services and resources, including financial aid, campus safety, and academic units. Meals for the day will include lunch and dinner. Day 1 will conclude at approximately 10:30 p.m. Student Day 2 The second day of orientation will begin with a brief morning meeting at approximately 7:45 a.m., immediately followed by breakfast. After breakfast, students will have a final meeting with their academic advising units in preparation for ending the day with course registration. Lunch will also be served on day 2. Students should plan to be on campus until 5 p.m. EDT, although check-out could occur anytime between 3-5 p.m. (Allowing extra time may give you the opportunity to take care of any other university business you may want to complete after checking out of orientation.) Early Arrival Early arrival check-in is available for students who live more than 75 miles from campus and select this option at registration. Early arrival check-in is at Kurz Hall between 7-9 pm EDT the evening before your scheduled orientation session. Dinner that night and breakfast the next morning are not provided, so please plan accordingly. There is an additional $25 fee for early arrival. Frequently Asked Questions Still have questions? Visit our Frequently Asked Questions page to find the answers! If you have additional questions after that, please contact the Orientation Office at orient@louisville.edu or 502.852.7276 (office open Monday-Friday, 9 am-5 pm ET). First-Time Freshman Guide Make sure you are completing all necessary items in the “Before Orientation” section on the First-Time Freshman Guide before your session date to make sure you are ready to join the Cardinal Family! Need to request a major change? Click here and login with your New Cards Gateway credentials. CONTACTS Orientation tel 502.852.7276 email orient@louisville.edu First-time-Freshman Checklist Freshman Orientation (Summer/Fall) 2022 Freshman Orientation Dates Orientation Agenda Freshman Orientation FAQS Family Orientation Admitted Student FAQs Technology Requirements Orientation Parking and Directions Cards Camp 2022 © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville