Skip to main content louisville.edu My Accounts email ulink peoplesoft hr peoplesoft campus solutions peoplesoft financials blackboard business ops cardsmart cardbox cards career connection Plone APPLY Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning DONATE CAMPUSES Belknap HSC Online Search All Sites This Site Search Parameters Search UofL Go Information Technology Services (ITS) Home Get Help Report IssueSelf ServiceChatCall UsRemote Session1:1 AssistanceITS for Students Email Log-inOffice 365 HelpPasswordsSpam Phish Malware Wireless Wireless InfoReport IssueCampus Housing Wi-Fi Tech Support Classroom SupportDesktop & DevicesHelpDesk1:1 Assistance Remote Work Report / Request Report IssueSelf ServiceULServicesNetworkPhones System Status ULink ulink-upgrade-imagesulink-upgrade-filesStudent ULink UpgradeEmployee Faculty ULink Upgrade Adobe Support Home Get Help ITS for Students ITS for Students ITS for Students In ITS, we provide students the connections and technology for success. Let us help you navigate the technology landscape at UofL. Is there technology assistance? Having issues with your device or log-in? The ITS HelpDesk can assist you via an online service ticket, online support chat, interactive Bomgar, or call a consultant at (502) 852-7997. If you prefer one-on-one personal assistance, try our iTechConnect drop in services on the Belknap campus on the lower level of the Miller Information Technology Center. We’re also happy to assist walk-ins at our Health Sciences Campus location in Building A, room 104 on M,W,Fs from 10am-2pm. FREE OFFICE365 All enrolled students and employees are eligible for free access to Microsoft’s Office365 suite of software online and downloadable on up to five devices. Outlook (for your university email), Word, PowerPoint, Excel, OneDrive (50GB of storage) and more. Sign-in to Office365 to see your account using your UofL userID/email address and password. All enrolled students and employees are eligible for free access to Microsoft’s Office365 suite of software online and downloadable on up to five devices. Outlook (for your university email), Word, PowerPoint, Excel, OneDrive (50GB of storage) and more. Sign-in to Office365 to see your account using your UofL userID/email address and password. Free Adobe CC All enrolled students and employees are eligible for free access to Adobe Creative Cloud offerings. With both desktop and mobile apps, software and educational tools, use your creativity for design, photography, video, audio and web. Find out more about how to sign up for software such as Photoshop, Lightroom, Acrobat Pro, Rush and more. All enrolled students and employees are eligible for free access to Adobe Creative Cloud offerings. With both desktop and mobile apps, software and educational tools, use your creativity for design, photography, video, audio and web. Find out more about how to sign up for software such as Photoshop, Lightroom, Acrobat Pro, Rush and more. FREE STORAGE In addition to your O365 OneDrive 50GB, enrolled students can request a free CardBox account for unlimited storage options and collaborative tools. This Box secure storage solution integrates well with O365 and can synch automatically from your desktop. Follow the directions on our dedicated CardBox page to request a free account. In addition to your O365 OneDrive 50GB, enrolled students can request a free CardBox account for unlimited storage options and collaborative tools. This Box secure storage solution integrates well with O365 and can synch automatically from your desktop. Follow the directions on our dedicated CardBox page to request a free account. More Freebies ITS is all about technology solutions and sharing resources across the UofL community. Access to our Gartner Research Resources for global technology insights is free. Additionally, our free MATLAB (MathWorks, Simulink) access offers an amazing collection of software and tools for all types of design, engineering, mathematics, sciences and much more. ITS is all about technology solutions and sharing resources across the UofL community. Access to our Gartner Research Resources for global technology insights is free. Additionally, our free MATLAB (MathWorks, Simulink) access offers an amazing collection of software and tools for all types of design, engineering, mathematics, sciences and much more. HELPDESK SELF HELP EMAIL PASSWORDS WIRELESS SERVICE CATALOG BLACKBOARD PURCHASE PRINTING UofL Alerts Report Phishing Knowledge Base New Students Where do I begin? Registering for classes? Checking your tuition balance? ULink is a secure (yep, you’ll need to sign-in) portal for all of your necessary student accounts, course management and university administrative services. In ULink, you can find all kinds of clickable listings that will be important during your student years at UofL. Three items are key when accessing different systems at UofL: your UofL student ID#, UofL user ID, and your password. Students log in at ulink.louisville.edu using their UofL user ID and password. Keep these two items safe – they are mandatory for all secure systems at the university. Our ITS HelpDesk can assist with any log-in issues – whether it is your first time with your temporary password or in the future with your university accounts. What is my UofL user ID? How do I set a password? Your UofL user ID is a system generated one that you get when you set up your account once admitted to the university. If you forget or don't already know your user ID, you can access it using your social security number and birthdate. You will need to set up a password and activate your account in our Identity Management system by following the steps required. Assistance is available in our step-by-step guide or through our ITS HelpDesk. What is my university email address? Students automatically receive an email account when they are admitted to UofL. You must check this account regularly for all of your university correspondence. Your default email address is your UofL user ID@louisville.edu (for example: fmlast01@louisville.edu). While this account is set by UofL, you can have another email address that goes to this same account. The other is called your "preferred email" address. The default chosen name for your preferred email is usually, depending on the commonality of your first and last name = firstname.lastname@louisville.edu. To view or change the preferred option, go to ULink > on the Portal entrance under Resources, click on Email Addresses, sign into system > Here you'll see your information and options. How do I begin using my UofL email? Sign-in to your email account at outlook.office365.com using your default UofL email address (UofL user ID@louisville.edu). Your password is the same as your ULink password. What’s great about your UofL Outlook email is that it is part of an online Microsoft Office365 system. You get 50GB of OneDrive storage and, as an enrolled student, free access to Office365 on up to five devices (including PCs, Macs, phones or tablets). That includes applications like Outlook, Word, PowerPoint, Excel and OneNote. Sign-in to Office365 to see your account and options at login.microsoftonline.com. After your initial log-in into your email, it is highly recommended to reset your password. You will need to familiarize yourself with our password requirements and identity management portal. If you have forgotten your password, please use our reset password feature. If you have not set up an alternative email or number for text confirmation to reset your password, please contact the ITS HelpDesk at 852-7997, LiveChat, or create a ticket in our service catalog. Where’s my coursework? What’s Blackboard? UofL’s online learning management system, Blackboard, provides resources and support for all of your courses and organizations. Using your same user ID and password, you will be able to access course materials, class discussions, media files, grades and other services. Some courses are totally online through Blackboard. Available as both a web-based platform and mobile app, you’ll love how easy it can be to navigate your coursework. Our ITS HelpDesk can assist with any log-in issues for Blackboard but for problems inside the system (or internal tools) you’ll need to contact their helpdesk at (502) 852-8833 during the hours listed on the portal entrance. What else might I need to know? Everyone in the UofL community has access to the online O365 suite of products. Just signing in to your UofL Outlook email via outlook.office.com allows free access to the O365 system on up to 5 devices. Look to the upper left for a 3x3 dot favicon, click to see available product menu. Specific technology equipment recommendations are provided by each UofL department due to the various requirements of each student’s major emphasis of study. ITS basic equipment recommendations include: Laptop or desktop computer – This should be reasonably recent computer running an up-to-date operating system to ensure software compatibility and security protections. We recommend that PCs be running Windows 10 or 11 and Apple computers have macOS 10.14 or later. Microphone – For online or distance learning, web conferencing or remote meetings, the best audio access is through a microphone. Your laptop or computer may have a built-in microphone or you could use an external device or headset. Webcam – For online or distance learning, web conferencing or remote meetings, a camera may already be built into your laptop. Otherwise, external USB cameras can be used to participate in online conferences. Internet – On all three UofL campuses, we provide high-speed ethernet networking access and our wireless options allow four different types of connections. But away from any of our campus locations, you will need to have a stable and fast internet connection to support email, chat, file sharing, online meetings and other day-to-day work tasks. We recommend 10-20 Mbps upload and download speeds for most standard work activities. All Students Got a device? Need Wireless? Throughout each campus, UofL offers four types of wireless service: ULvisitor is for visitors (no log-in required) on a short-term use with limited functionality. ULsponsor is for full-service, unencrypted network access but for only 30 days and requires a sponsor for access. All students, faculty and staff use our on-boarding tool to assist them with the best connectivity and extended certified access to university wireless from any UofL location. For the best encrypted service, we prioritize the use of our Eduroam and ULSecure for those with a valid UofL userID and password. See our wireless page for detailed information. How do I stay informed about emergencies? Get connected today with UofL Alerts to receive real-time text messages from the University during an emergency. What do I need to know about acceptable use at UofL? Computing accounts, digital accessibility and technology facilities must not be used in any manner that could be interpreted as disruptive or damaging. No action that would cause harm to the university computing infrastructure, resources or data and other users will be accepted. The official university policy provides complete details. Other guidelines for use are also applicable. What about user privacy and account access? In ITS, security is very important to us. We are here to maintain the confidentiality and integrity of all electronic data. We never disclose student passwords or data to any third parties (including parents). Passwords to all university accounts and devices must be kept confidential in order to protect sensitive information such as financial aid and personal data. What happens to my email account when I leave UofL? Upon graduation or non-registration for courses, you have approximately 9-15 months (depending on status) to set up forwarding of your email account. A non-enrolled student takes on a recent student status if not matriculated. However, university passwords are only good for 90 days so all accounts will lock when this period expires. Once graduated, as a UofL alum, you are eligible to set up permanent email forwarding. Emails sent to your university account will be forwarded to the personal account of your choosing. To set up email forwarding, go to our Identity Management system under My Profile > My Availability > Email for Life > switch option to Yes > Enter forwarding email address > re-enter forwarding email address > Save. What about my other accounts when I leave? You will also need to transfer your other technology accounts that currently use a university license to access to personal accounts with the same company. For example, your O365 and Adobe CC software is licensed only for “educational use” and will need to be transferred to a paid one. While not a complete list, we recommend the following: For O365 or other Microsoft products, begin on your account dashboard and follow their advice on managing your subscriptions. Remember to migrate any data or files stored on OneDrive, SharePoint or through other O365 software if not transferring your account. If you have an AdobeCC account, you will need to follow the information that Adobe has for graduating students on setting up a new account. You will want to migrate any content stored in your current cloud account to your new personal, paid account as well. If you have a UofL CardBox account for digital storage, switching to a personal Box account is necessary. See box.com for more information on types of plans or support.box.com on how-to migrate your files. ABOUT US TECH SUPPORT CONTACT US TWITTER INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES (ITS) Miller Information Technology Center, Room 109 University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 OFFICE HOURS M-F: 8:00 am to 5:00 pm No holiday hours. PHONE 502.852.6621 © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login email ulink peoplesoft hr peoplesoft campus solutions peoplesoft financials blackboard business ops cardsmart cardbox cards career connection Plone © University of Louisville