Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Office of Diversity & Equity Navigation Home About Us Meet the Staff What is Diversity? National Center for Faculty Development & Diversity Annual Report About UsAbout Us Dropdown Toggle Meet the Staff What is Diversity? National Center for Faculty Development & Diversity Annual Report Diversity Education and Inclusive Excellence Diversity Training Request Critical Cardinal Conversations Social Justice Camp Inclusion and Equity Internship Program Diversity Resources Photos Diversity Education and Inclusive ExcellenceDiversity Education and Inclusive Excellence Dropdown Toggle Diversity Training Request Critical Cardinal Conversations Social Justice Camp Inclusion and Equity Internship Program Diversity Resources Photos Campus Climate Survey Diversity Policy & Planning Diversity Plan KY CPE Diversity Policy Evaluation Rubric Diversity Policy & PlanningDiversity Policy & Planning Dropdown Toggle Diversity Plan KY CPE Diversity Policy Evaluation Rubric Diversity Related Academic Programs Diversity Centers Departments & Organizations Resources Anti-Racism Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Student Resources Resources Resources Dropdown Toggle Anti-Racism Resources Faculty & Staff Resources Student Resources University Policies Cultural and Equity Center National Center for Faculty Development & Diversity Home / About Us / Meet the Staff Office of Diversity and Equity V. Faye Jones, MD, PhD, MSPH Senior Associate Vice President for Diversity and Equity Associate Vice President for Health Affairs/Diversity Initiatives Professor of Pediatrics Vice Chair, Department of Pediatrics - Inclusive Excellence Dr. Jones is a tenured professor of pediatrics and joined The University of Louisville in 1990. In addition to her role in pediatrics she currently serves as the Associate Vice President for Health Affairs -Diversity Initiatives, the Interim Senior Associate Vice President for Diversity and Equity, and Vice Chair for the Department of Pediatrics-Inclusive Excellence. With more than 30 years in medical experience Dr. Jones’ passion lies in creating a community where health equity is a reality. She is responsible for training our future pediatric providers as well as overseeing the integration of equitable and diverse health care standards throughout our campus. Dr. Jones enjoys being quite active in the community serving in various roles both past and present for the Commission on Diversity and Racial Equality; Race Community and Child Welfare Steering Committee; Executive Committee on Foster Care, Adoption, and Kinship; Board member of the Family Scholar House; and is a past president of the Medical Staff Executive committee at Kosair Children’s Hospital. Additionally, Dr. Jones has authored or co-authored more than 71 publications. A Kentucky native, Dr. Jones graduated from WKU with her BS in biology. She attended medical school and completed her residency at UofL before going on to obtain her MSPH and PhD in Epidemiology, both from UofL. Additionally she has completed a fellowship in Executive Leadership in Academic Medicine at Drexel University College of Medicine as well as completing the Healthcare Executive Diversity and Inclusion Certificate Program and the Academy for Innovative Higher Education Leadership, both at Georgetown University. Dr. Jones enjoys spending her free time with her husband and their five children. Marian Vasser Executive Director of Diversity and Equity Director of Diversity Education & Inclusive Excellence Marian R. Vasser serves as the Executive Director for Diversity and Equity at the University of Louisville, where she has served approximately 27 years in various roles. With over 16 years of experience as a Diversity and Equity Practitioner, she conducts approximately 300 workshops annually focusing on Anti-Racism, Implicit Bias, Micro-aggressions, Power and Privilege, Engaging in Difficult Dialogue and more. Marian received the 2019 UofL Presidential Multicultural Engagement award and was also recognized as an Adult Black Achiever. She was also nominated as Today’s Woman 2020 Educator of the Year and is also being featured on a documentary for PBS Frontline regarding school integration efforts in the U.S., looking back at Brown v. Board of Education and the current state of schools in the U.S. Marian’s commitment to equitable access in education is evident as she sits on a number of internal and external committees designed to improve access and equity throughout school districts. She also serves as a board member for EVOLVE 502, which is designed to increase access for underrepresented and marginalized communities in Kentucky. Marian is the proud Mom of three handsome, intelligent, and talented young men. Marian’s personal commitment to lifelong learning is demonstrated by her ability to complete a BA in Sociology and a Masters in Higher Education Administration while working 2 jobs and single-parenting. Currently, Marian pursuing a PhD in College Student Personnel in the College of Education and Human Development. Diane Whitlock Chief of Staff Diane Whitlock is a native of Louisville, KY and a long-time employee of the University of Louisville. In her role as Chief of Staff to the Vice President for Diversity and Equity, Diane is a member of the Diversity Administrative Leadership Team and ensures the operational efficiency and effectiveness within the Office of Diversity and Equity and its Division, serving as the second in command within the office. She provides strategic counsel to the Vice President for Diversity and Equity and the Diversity Division and works behind the scenes to solve problems and address pertinent issues, acting as a sounding board, advisor, and confidant, as needed. The Chief of Staff leads high-impact, highly visibility projects and initiatives for the Office of Diversity and Equity, leading efforts and working with academic and administrative units to develop and achieve the goals of the university’s diversity plan. Whitlock earned a bachelor’s in Organizational Leadership and Learning and a master’s in Higher Education Administration from the UofL College of Education and Human Development, and serves or has served on various committees on and off-campus. Some examples of her committee work include the university's 2019 Great Place to Work strategic planning committee, and serving of the board of directors for the Business Diversity Network of Kentucky, the Republic Bank Foundation YMCA, and the University Club Board of Directors. She has also served on the UofL Outstanding Community Engagement Award selection committee, Outstanding Performance Awards selection committee, and is a past President of the UofL Black Faculty/Staff Association (2008-2012). She is one of the 2016 recipients of the UofL President’s Outstanding Performance Awards, and other awards include the UofL LGBT Center Ally Award (2016), UofL Outstanding Community Service Staff Award (2011), the 2008 Eleanor Young Love Award presented by the Louisville Commission on Human Rights, and the Martin Luther King, Jr. Scholars Accomplice Award (2021). © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville