Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Dean of Students Navigation Home Students Code of Student Conduct Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities ConcernCenter Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Kognito Training Recognized Student Organizations Student Awards Student Government Association Student Policies and Procedures StudentsStudents Dropdown Toggle Code of Student Conduct Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities ConcernCenter Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Kognito Training Recognized Student Organizations Student Awards Student Government Association Student Policies and Procedures Faculty and Staff Absence Notification Classroom Disruption Policy Compassionate Withdrawal Policy Harold Adams Award Helping Students in Distress Kognito Training QPR Training Response Guide for Difficult Student Situations Student Care Team Faculty and StaffFaculty and Staff Dropdown Toggle Absence Notification Classroom Disruption Policy Compassionate Withdrawal Policy Harold Adams Award Helping Students in Distress Kognito Training QPR Training Response Guide for Difficult Student Situations Student Care Team Campus Resources Community Policies Persona Non Grata Speech and Distribution of Literature Community PoliciesCommunity Policies Dropdown Toggle Persona Non Grata Speech and Distribution of Literature How to Get Help Absence Notification Anonymous Reporting Form Community Resources Compassionate Withdrawal Policy ConcernCenter Disciplinary (Conduct) Records Check Report a Safety or Hazard Concern Reporting a Student Concern Student Advocate Student Complaint Procedure Student Emergency Fund Student Grievance Student Sexual Misconduct Policy How to Get HelpHow to Get Help Dropdown Toggle Absence Notification Anonymous Reporting Form Community Resources Compassionate Withdrawal Policy ConcernCenter Disciplinary (Conduct) Records Check Report a Safety or Hazard Concern Reporting a Student Concern Student Advocate Student Complaint Procedure Student Emergency Fund Student Grievance Student Sexual Misconduct Policy About Us Organizational Chart Staff Directory About UsAbout Us Dropdown Toggle Organizational Chart Staff Directory Home / Students / Student Policies and Procedures / Student Handbook Student Handbook Table of Contents Academic Advising ADA Guidelines for Students with Disabilities Admissions Air Force ROTC Army ROTC Assistance for Student Problem Resolution Athletics/Ticket Office Bad Weather Schedule Bands Baptist Campus Center Bursar's Office Campus Health Services Campus Housing Cardinal Card Career Center Chalking Policy Code of Student Conduct Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities Commencement Community Service Computer Accounts Counseling Center Credit Union (Student) Cultural and Equity Center Dean of Students Office Disability Resource Center Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Amendments of 1989 Employee Relations and Compliance Engage Lead Serve Board (ELSB) Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act(FERPA) Fort Knox Center Fraternity and Sorority Life Gheens Science Center and Rauch Planetarium Grade Reports Guidelines for Respect for Intellectual Property Rights Hazing and Initiation Activities Policy History Information Centers Information Technology Services Intellectual Property Rights Interfaith Center International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) International Service Learning Program Intramural and Recreational Sports LGBT Center Lost and Found Louisville Cardinal Maps Meal Plans Mail Services Metropolitan College Metroversity Military and Veteran Student Services Mission Statement Non-Academic Grievance Policy Off Campus Student Services Parking Offices Reaffirmation of Commitment to Equal Educational & Employment Opportunity Recognized Student Organizations (RSO) Red Barn Registrar's Office Registration Religious Holy Days and Observances Residency Classification Resources for Academic Achievement (REACH) RSO Event Policy Scams, Advice and Tips Schedule of Courses Student Activities Board Student Activities Center Administration Student Affairs Administration Student Athlete Certification Student Computer Accounts Student Councils Student Discipline Student Employment Services Student Financial Aid Office Student Government Association (SGA) Student Grievance Officer Student Leadership Programs Student Orientation Staff Student Records Policy Student Success Center Title IX Student Sexual Misconduct Policy Study Abroad and International Travel Testing Services Thorntons Academic Center of Excellence Transcripts Tuition and Fees University Administration and Deans University Campus Stores University Career Center University Dining Services University Libraries University Police UofL Print Services, powered by Canon University Policy for Hosting Events with Alcohol for Recognized Student Orientations and Councils University Theatre Weapons Policy Women's Center Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Academic Advising Academic advising at the University of Louisville promotes a teaching and learning partnership dedicated to student success. It is to your advantage to meet with your academic advisor at least once a semester and to know your advisor well. The advising experience will provide you with the information and skills necessary to make intelligent, informed decisions throughout your college career. Your academic advisor can assist you in connecting with valuable resources on campus. Your academic advisor will guide you and teach you about career choices, degree requirements, university policies and procedures, and how to be a successful student. It is your responsibility to take the lead in developing a relationship with your advisor by communicating with your advisor on a regular basis. For more information visit https://louisville.edu/advising/. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer ADA Guidelines for Students with Disabilities The Disability Resource Center (DRC) is your starting point for obtaining auxiliary aids and services or course modifications, or for requesting accessible university housing. The DRC website contains a wealth of information on UofL policies designed to further the university’s ADA compliance and inclusivity. For more information, contact the Disability Resource Center, located in Stevenson Hall, Room 119. The contact information is as follows: Phone: 502-852-6938, FAX 502-852-0924 Hours: MTWRF 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Web: https://louisville.edu/disability E-mail: askdrc@louisville.edu Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Office of Admissions https://www.louisville.edu/admissions Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Air Force ROTC 333 Eastern Parkway First Floor Dougherty Hall 502-852-6576 Fax: 502-852-4775 Hours: MTWRF 8:30 AM - 4:30 PM Web: https://louisville.edu/afrotc/ Email: cardre@louisville.edu The Air Force offers a commissioning program for students in all academic disciplines, including nursing, law, engineering and pre-med. The first year of AFROTC does not incur an obligation. Graduates are commissioned as lieutenants and serve in a variety of career fields ranging from pilot and navigator through financial analyst. A variety of scholarship opportunities are available. AFROTC field training counts as an engineering co-op. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Army ROTC Dougherty Hall, 2nd Floor 502-852-7902 1-800-334-8635 ext. 7902 FAX: 502-852-8986 Hours: MTWRF 8:30 AM - 4:30 PM Web: https://louisville.edu/armyrotc E-mail: army@louisville.edu Army ROTC is a leadership development course designed to commission students with a college degree as second lieutenants in the US Army. Any University of Louisville student can register for the first year of the ROTC introductory class. The ROTC class can count for a physical education or an elective credit toward most degrees. Graduates of our program commission as second lieutenants and serve in one of the many career fields employing the latest in technology. Scholarship opportunities are available to assist qualified students. Interested students should direct specific questions regarding registering for classes or scholarship opportunities to the Army ROTC Department in Dougherty Hall. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Assistance for Student Problem Resolution The University of Louisville offers students a number of ways in which they may seek assistance with problems or to attain information in both academic and non-academic matters. We recommend that the student initially work with the department to resolve the conflict or misunderstanding. The following resources are available to the student for further assistance. Student Grievance Officer Responsible for informing students of their rights and obligations under the grievance procedure and especially the deadlines that have been established. The Student Grievance Officer shall seek to resolve informally as many grievances as possible. https://louisville.edu/dos/students/studentpoliciesandprocedures/student-grievance Affirmative Action Office (AAO) The official University procedure for civil rights violations is to notify this office that receives, investigates, and reports on complaints regarding illegal discrimination, including sexual or racial harassment or disability discrimination. https://louisville.edu/hr/employeerelations/eeo-affirmative-action/ Dean of Students Office Student Activities Center Room W301 Phone: 502-852-5787 Hours: M - F 8AM - 5PM EMAIL: dos@lousiville.edu Responds to questions and concerns from student regarding non-academic issues. This office will refer a student to the best place for his/her problem resolution and handles complaints that may constitute a violation of the Code of Student Conduct. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Athletics/Ticket Office The University fields an outstanding athletic program, providing intercollegiate competition in 21 athletic programs. To try out for these teams or to work in a support capacity, contact the Athletic Department. Prices and schedules are available at the Ticket Office or online. Student Activities Center (SAC) 2100 S. Floyd Street Third Floor – East Wing Hours: M - F 9 AM - 5 PM Ticket Office: Phone: 502-852-5151 Fax: 502-852-7025 Web: https://www.gocards.com/students Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Bad Weather Schedule https://louisville.edu/registrar/general-information/bad-weather-schedule Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Bands The bands at the University of Louisville enjoy a rich legacy. Currently, more than 300 students representing a variety of academic disciplines participate in our programs. They find their musical homes in our marching band, concert bands, and community band. For more information, please visit the webiste. Website: https://www.uoflbands.com Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Baptist Campus Center (BCM) On Tuesday evenings at 7:45PM, we have an on-campus worship service opportunity, which includes a pre-worship meal. On Wednesdays’, we have opportunities for service projects and social events. Whether you are committed to your faith or you have questions about spirituality, this is a place for you! We will have relevant messages and small group discussions that will challenge and encourage. We explore the Bible as we engage topics that involve our culture and campus. We have several small group Bible Studies that meet throughout the week in our BCM building and elsewhere on campus. You can get more information by visiting the website or by swinging by the office. The BCM invests in international and domestic students through Converge and Connect conferences. We are also involved in a variety events on campus. Let us know how we may be able to serve you! We would love to connect! Located at the base of the SAC ramp 502-852-6595 Hours: MF 9 AM - 5 PM; TWR 9AM - 8P Campus Minister: Brian Hinton, Brian.Hinton@KYBaptist.org Web: http://www.uoflbcm.org Twitter: @uoflbcm Instagram:@uoflbcm Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Bursar’s Office 502-852-6503 Houchens Building Room 101 Louisville, KY 40292 https://louisville.edu/bursar Tuition Refund Guidlines https://louisville.edu/bursar/tuitionfee Customer Service Hours: M - F 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM Students with a valid ID may cash personal checks in amounts up to $25. This cashing a check option is available to currently enrolled students between the first day of a semester to two weeks prior to end of that same semester. The privilege of cashing checks will be denied to students for one year when a check is returned by their bank. Currently, a returned check fee of $25.00 is assessed for each returned check. Checks are also accepted for payment of fees. ATM machines may be found throughout the campus. Tuition and Fees - Cost of Attendance https://louisville.edu/bursar Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Campus Health Services Our mission is to support and enhance students' educational experience by providing clinically excellent, affordable and confidential integrated medical, mental, health promotion and violence prevention services as well as specialized healthcare services to the general University community. Utilizing an ecological health model, we assist the University community in achieving academic and life goals. Providing primary medical care, psychiatric care, sick visits, physicals, adult immunizations, travel health visits and immunizations, female health, sexual health and STI testing, contraceptive services with emergency contraception available on site. Medical and Psychiatric Services: Belknap Campus Cardinal Station 215 Central Ave, Suite 110 (502) 852-6479 https://www.louisville.edu/campushealth Health Sciences Campus 401 E. Chestnut Street, Suite 110 Louisville, KY 40202 (502) 852-6446 https://www.louisville.edu/campushealth Hours of Operation: MTTF 8:30 AM - 4:30 PM Wed 10:00 AM - 4:30 PM Days and hours of operation are subject to change Payment: https://uofl.me/pay-chs Campus Health accepts most major health insurance plans. VISA, MasterCard, money orders, and checks are accepted for payment. Campus Health does not accept cash. Payment is expected at the time of service. The Primary Care Health Fee (PCHF) covers most in-office visits and point of care testing. Student Health Insurance: The University of Louisville sponsors an ACA-compliant student health insurance plan which is available to all on campus students carrying at least 6.0 credit hours. For more information, go to our website or contact the Student Insurance Advocate at 502-852-6519. Health Promotion Office: Student Activities Center, Suite W 309 2100 S. Floyd Street, Louisville, KY 40292 502-852-5429 Website: https://louisville.edu/healthpromotion Email: hlthed@louisville.edu Instagram: @HealthyCards Health Promotion supports health and wellbeing through resilience-building programming and services. Our offerings focus on the content areas of stress resilience & mindfulness; fitness & movement; sleeping & napping; food, nutrition & cooking; and sexual health & relationships. These judgment-free health programs and services are available to ALL UofL Students. PEACC: Prevention, Education, and Advocacy on Campus and in the Community Student Activities Center, Suite W 309-H 2100 S. Floyd Street, Louisville, KY 40292 502-852-2663 Website: https://louisville.edu/peacc Email: peacc@louisville.edu The UofL PEACC Center believes that every student has the right to live, learn and love free of violence and fear. We work to end power-based personal violence by providing the campus community with the tools and support to make that happen. PEACC provides confidential advocacy to university students, staff and faculty who are affected by sexual misconduct, interpersonal violence, sexual harassment, and stalking. In addition to direct service, the PEACC Center offers prevention programs on campus that include workshops, programs, and trainings designed to help everyone create a community where violence is unacceptable. BRICC: Building Resiliency in Campus Community Alcohol and substance abuse risk reduction Miller Hall 143A 2005 South First Street 502-852-3442 Website: https://www.louisville.edu/campushealth A unit within Campus Health Services providing leadership in advancing policies, programs, resources and experiences that increase resiliency and reduce high risk drinking and substance use in the campus and community. BRICC’s efforts target individual, group, organization and community levels. We envision a resilient campus and community free from high risk drinking and substance abuse. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Campus Housing Stevenson Hall 502-852-6636, FAX 852-5427 Web: https://louisville.edu/housing/ Campus Housing offers a community-like atmosphere that supports students as they successfully transition from high school to college and beyond. It is a place where everyone can belong and make life-long connections. Students are sure to find a home in one of our eleven residence halls or affiliated apartment properties. Our halls and affiliated properties are home to more than 6,000 students from across the globe. Staffed by a team of professionals with expertise in student learning and development, we emphasize healthy lifestyles and provide programs that facilitate student engagement and personal growth. Our student residents have a variety of living options from which to choose including the opportunity to join one of Campus Housing’s 13 Living Learning Communities (LLC’s) or six Themed Communities (TC’s). Each of these groups offer specific academic, and/or social benefits that complement a student’s interest in a particular topic. Campus Housing is also one of the largest student employers on campus, with more than 300 part-time student employees assisting in facilities, services, and programs that support our campus communities and help them thrive. Our dynamic combination of professional staff, student leaders, and residents helps make UofL a vibrant campus with lots to offer every individual. Living on Campus - Campus Housing can host students during the academic year and summer. To apply for housing, visit Campus Housing’s website. To learn more about policies within the residence halls, please visit the Residence Hall Policies. Campus Housing offers many residential options across a spectrum of prices to meet students’ needs. For more information, please review the Cost of Living on Campus. Mission Statement & Core Values - Our mission is to promote a safe, convenient, inclusive and healthy living-learning environment, providing opportunities that engage students, facilitate student and faculty connections and encourage student success. Our core values include the following: Student Focus - Our residents come first. Respect - We demonstrate fairness, consistency and compassion in our interactions with others. Integrity - We conduct ourselves at all times in a professional and ethical manner. Honesty and openness are hallmarks of the way we conduct our business. Caring for Community - Developing comfortable places to live and learn, while providing students opportunities to learn civic responsibility. Intentionality - We are singly focused on making every interaction with our residents count. Staff are trained to have intrusive conversations with students to enable them to more effectively assist students with issues that may be affecting their experience at UofL. Student Learning Outcomes - We offer a variety of on-campus programs designed to help students make lasting peer and faculty connections through community involvement, leadership, and networking opportunities. Our affiliated partnerships with privately owned and managed apartment communities also ensure that students may sustain these connections while living off campus nearby. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Cardinal Card The Cardinal Card is the official identification card for UofL students, faculty, and staff. The card is also used for entry into residence halls, facilities and classroom buildings, meal plan funds, off-campus retail and dining, athletic tickets, library privileges, gym/facilities, and free TARC rides among many other uses. Incoming freshman and transfer students can receive their Cardinal Card after attending the virtual orientation session. Students who do not attend the virtual orientation and have already registered for classes can receive a card starting August 1, 2021 for the Fall 2021 semester and December 13, 2021 for the Spring 2022 semester. There is no charge for the first card; a photo ID is required. Replacement cards are $15.00. Upon issuance of a replacement card, the old Cardinal Card cannot be reactivated. The Cardinal Card may not be altered in any way. This includes punching holes or adding stickers. You can visit our office to get a hole punched in your card. Cardinal Cards will remain active as long as you are enrolled at the university. If your enrollment should lapse, you should retain your card. Failure to comply may result in the charge of a replacement fee upon your return. Belknap Campus Hours: Monday-Friday, 8:30am-5:00pm Houchens Bldg, Rm LL05 2211 South Brook Street Louisville, Kentucky 40208 502.852.7520, FAX 502.852.7628 Health Sciences Campus Hours: Tuesdays, 9:30am-11:30am Chestnut Street Parking Garage (Parking Office) 414 E. Chestnut Street Louisville, Kentucky 40202 502.852.7634 Website: https://louisville.edu/cardinalcard/ Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ulcardinalcard Twitter: ulcardinalcard Instagram: ulcardinalcard Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer University Career Center The University Career Center engages the campus community in comprehensive career and professional development connecting passion to purpose through innovative and inclusive career services. To utilize UCC services fully, students must register through Cards Career Connection powered by Handshake. Among these services are: Exploring Majors & Careers Career Coaches are available to help you choose a major or career field. A one-on-one appointment is a great place to begin the conversation. Career coaches utilize career assessments to assist students with career exploration. Internship Preparation Internships are essential to be competitive in today’s job market. Our Internship Coordinator helps students locate internship opportunities, whether paid or for academic credit (or both). Job Search Assistance Career Coaches also assist students in implementing a targeted job search. Cards Career Connection powered by Handshake contains a variety of positions including student employment, Federal Work Study, internship, co-op, and professional entry level. Student Employment Need help finding a part-time job that is flexible with your school schedule? Cards Career Connection powered by Handshake also contains employers looking to hire students for part-time jobs. Practice Interviews Great resumes get interviews and great interviews land jobs. Let us help you practice your interviewing skills, either in a personal appointment or through online video platforms. Our staff will provide feedback to help you improve. Career Fairs The University Career Center hosts several career fairs each year to promote job opportunities face-to-face. These events provide you the opportunity to connect with organizations. Networking It’s not just what you know, it’s who you know. We can help you develop a strategy to expand your network based on connections with alumni, professional associations relevant to your field, and through a presence on networking websites like LinkedIn. Resume & Cover Letters Resumes and cover letters are important documents for your job search that work together to help you secure an interview. We can help develop a customized document that tells your career story on paper in an effective way. Document Drop Program It is important to receive feedback on your resumes and cover letters. Students can submit their documents via our website and get a written critique in as little as two business days. Drop-in Advising Sometimes students have a brief question. We’ve got you covered! Drop-in advising hours are available in fall and spring terms without an appointment. Career Treks Career Treks are trips to area employers and expose you to the inner-workings of an organization. It is a great way to network and learn more about a particular industry. Transportation is provided by the University Career Center and available on a first-come, first-served basis. Graduate & Professional School The University Career Center can help you identify graduate and professional school programs and provide advice on the application process. Customized Presentations We can visit your student organization, class, or other campus group to speak on a variety of important career-related topics. Career Videos and Resources Our website contains a variety of print and video resources covering a wide array of career topics. The University Career Center collaborates with the career centers in the College of Business, Speed School of Engineering, and the Brandeis School of Law. Please visit our website for more information: https://louisville.edu/career. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Chalking Policy http://louisville.edu/sac/resources/building-policies Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Code of Student Conduct https://louisville.edu/dos/students/codeofconduct Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Code of Student Rights and Responsibilities https://louisville.edu/dos/students/studentrightsandresponsibilities Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Commencement Please call 502-852-6528 or visit the Commencement website for current information. Web: https://louisville.edu/commencement The university holds commencement ceremonies in May and in December. The University-wide ceremony features speakers, awards, and conferring of degrees. Students receiving degrees at the end of the spring term may participate in the May commencement ceremony. Students receiving degrees at the end of the summer and fall term may participate in the December commencement ceremony. For information on the ceremony please visit the Commencement website. All graduating students must apply for their degrees according to deadlines. https://louisville.edu/registrar/commencement-information.html In order to participate in the commencement ceremony, graduates must order regalia according to deadlines. https://louisville.edu/commencement/ordering Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Community Service W310 Swain Student Activities Center University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Phone: 502-852-6691 Fax: 502-852-7332 Web: https://louisville.edu/studentinvolvement Community service is a wonderful way to make new friends, connect to your community and just feel better. If you are interested in volunteering your time, consider such programs as Alternative Service Break trips, Vote Everywhere and MLK Day of Service. Additionally, the student-led Engage Lead Serve Board (https://www.uoflelsb.org/) functions from the Office of Student Involvement and gets students involved in designing, planning and implementing programs focused on civic engagement, community service and leadership. Connect today! Students may visit the website for a list of upcoming events: https://louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/events. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Counseling Center Student Activities Center 2100 S Floyd St, Suite W204 502-852-6585, FAX 502-852-0291 Hours: MTWRF 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM Urgent consultation hours: MTWRF 9AM – 4PM (no appointment needed--walk in or call for more information) Fall and Spring semester evening hours may vary; call for more information. Closed on University Holidays and administrative closings, e.g., for inclement weather. Website: https://louisville.edu/counseling email: coping@louisville.edu The mission of the Counseling Center is to provide services and programs that support the psychological well-being, holistic development, and retention of University of Louisville students. The Center seeks to promote an environment that is conducive to positive personal growth and educational achievement. We are committed to diversity in the provision of services and in supporting the University community, while honoring the unique needs and concerns of individuals and traditionally underrepresented groups. We are dedicated to achieving excellence in all aspects of service provision, consultation, training, and research. The University of Louisville Counseling Center provides short-term individual, group, and couples counseling, crisis intervention, and psychological testing (including LD/ADHD assessments). Most services are covered by student fees; psychological testing is provided for an additional fee on a sliding scale. Clinicians are licensed psychologists, social workers, therapists, and counselors; graduate trainees also provide services, under supervision. Our clients seek services for a variety of areas of concern, including psychological, personal/social, academic, and career issues. Currently enrolled students are eligible for a triage at the Center. The triage provider will then determine, along with the student, what form(s) of treatment will best meet their needs. This may include in-person or teletherapy services at our Center or may require a referral to an outside agency. Counseling services are confidential to the limits specified by the law (see our website for more information). In addition to direct service, Counseling Center professionals provide consultation to faculty and staff members, and participate in outreach, training, advocacy, program development, and research. Our clinicians work in conjunction with the University community to promote a healthy campus environment that maximizes academic success and student retention. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Credit Union (Student) Cardinal Towne 331 West Cardinal Blvd Louisville, KY 40208 502-415-7600 Web: https://www.classact.org/ Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Cultural and Equity Center Belknap Residence Hall Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Phone: (502) 852-6656 Fax: (502) 852-0913 Website: https://louisville.edu/culturalcenter The Cultural Center creates educational opportunities for members of the university community to critically think about their beliefs, values and assumptions as it relates to culture. Our vision is an inclusive and accepting campus climate free of bias and hate where students, faculty, staff, and alumni work together to create positive change in the campus and local community. Under the direction of the Office of Diversity & Equity, the Cultural Center advocates for students, celebrate diverse cultures, engages the campus through social justice education and supports the retention and scholarship of under-represented students. The Cultural Center hosts a number of signature events and programs including the Graduation Celebration, heritage and identity celebrations, the Early Arrival Program. The office also coordinates a number of student success initiatives supporting underrepresented students including those who identify as Black, multiracial, Latinx and Indigenous. The Center serves as the home base for several student organizations in the Black Student Union, Latinx Student Union, NAACP-UofL Chapter, Society of Porter Scholars, Brothers United and the Black Diamond Choir. The Cultural and Equity Center is located in the Diversity and Equity Center located in the Belknap Residence Hall. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Dean of Students Office W301 Student Activities Center 852-5787, FAX 852-1429 Hours: M - F 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Email: dos@louisville.edu Web: https://louisville.edu/dos/ The Dean of Students Office provides a variety of services in support of students, including student non-academic grievance services, RSO funding, student conduct services, crisis assistance, extended absence notifications, SGA advising, and other programs designed to help create and promote a vibrant campus community. This office will refer a student to the best place for his/her problem resolution. The Dean of Students Office directly administers the non-academic disciplinary process including informal meetings and formal conduct hearings, the production of the Code of Student Conduct and the Student Handbook. In addition, the Dean of Students Office coordinates special co-curricular programs such as the National Student Exchange (NSE) and the Alternative Spring Break trip (ASB). Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Disability Resource Center 119 Stevenson Hall 502-852-6938, FAX 502-852-0924 Hours: MTWRF 8:00 AM - 5:00 PM Web: https://louisville.edu/disability E-mail: askdrc@louisville.edu In recognition of disability as an important part of the diversity of our community, the Disability Resource Center fosters an inclusive campus climate through education, service, collaboration, and outreach to the University of Louisville community. We provide support for students with documented disabilities by promoting equal access to all programs and services. The population of students with disabilities on our campus includes students with sensory impairments, mobility impairments, Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, learning disabilities, Autism spectrum disorders, mental health conditions, chronic health conditions, and a wide range of other disabilities. Students are encouraged to contact the Disability Resource Center to establish eligibility for services and to discuss specific accommodation needs. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Drug-Free Schools and Crime Awareness, Campus Security Information Report 1993, and Communities Act Amendments of 1989 Purpose and Goal The University of Louisville is committed to protecting the safety, health and wellbeing of all students, faculty, and staff and other individuals in our workplace. We recognize that alcohol abuse and drug use pose a significant threat to our goals. As a recipient of federal grants and contracts, the university gives this notice to students, faculty, and staff that it is in compliance with the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-690, Title V Subtitle D) and the Drug-Free Schools and Communities Act Amendment of 1989. Students, faculty and staff are herein notified of the standards of conduct that will be applicable while on university property, business, and/or at university-sponsored activities. This policy is incorporated and is a part of the official University of Louisville Policies and Procedures. This policy recognizes that student, faculty, and staff involvement with alcohol and other drugs can be very disruptive, adversely affect the quality of work or academic performance of student, faculty, and staff, pose serious health risks to users and others, and have a negative impact on productivity and morale. As a condition of employment or enrollment, the university requires that students, faculty, and staff adhere to a strict policy regarding the use and possession of drugs and alcohol. The university encourages students, faculty, and staff to voluntarily seek help with drug and alcohol problems. Prohibited Behaviors Under university regulations, federal law, state law, and, in some instances, local ordinance, students, faculty, and staff are prohibited from the unlawful possession, use, dispensation, distribution, or manufacture of illicit drugs on university property, on university business and/or at university-sponsored activities. Under this policy, students, faculty and staff are required to abide by state laws concerning alcoholic beverages. Kentucky law (KRS 244.085) states that, if one is under the age of 21, it is unlawful to: Possess or consume alcoholic beverages, Misrepresent one’s age for the purpose of purchasing alcoholic beverages, or Use a fake ID in an attempt to purchase alcoholic beverages. It is unlawful for anyone of any age to: Procure any alcoholic beverages for anyone under 21 years of age, Drink or be intoxicated in a public place (Public Intoxication KRS 525.100) University campuses and buildings are considered as public places for purposes of these laws, except for a facility licensed to serve alcoholic beverages, and a facility used as a private residence, unless university regulations state otherwise. Ordinances of the Greater Louisville area parallel the state laws. The specifically defined standards of conduct, the disciplinary procedures, and the appropriate sanctions are detailed in the Code of Student Conduct, Personnel Policies and Procedures (PER-5.01), Staff Handbook (Disciplinary Action, page 8.2) and The Redbook. In addition, it is a violation of state law to operate a motor vehicle while under the influence of any substance that may impair one’s driving ability (drugs or alcoholic beverages). Prescription and over-the-counter drugs are not prohibited when taken in standard dosage and/or according to a physician’s prescription. Any student, faculty, and staff taking prescribed or over-the-counter medications will be responsible for consulting the prescribing physician and/or pharmacist to ascertain whether the medication may interfere with job or academic performance. The illegal or unauthorized use of prescription drugs is prohibited. It is a violation of our drug-free workplace to intentionally misuse and/or abuse prescription medications. Appropriate disciplinary action will be taken if job or academic performance deterioration and/or other accidents occur. Consequences for Violating This Policy Under university regulation, students who violate this standard of conduct are subject to student conduct action from a warning to expulsion from the University. Students who reside in university housing are subject to further conduct action that may vary from a warning to termination of their housing contract. Notice of Drug-Related Conviction In compliance with the Federal Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988, any employee shall notify the immediate supervisor if the employee is convicted of a criminal drug offense occurring in the workplace or while on university business within five days of the conviction. The university shall take appropriate sanction and remedies in accordance within its policies. The provisions of this section are applicable to students who are employees of the university. If the employee is under a federal contract or grant, the university shall notify the contracting or granting agency of the conviction and of its actions. This section of this policy is also applicable to students who receive a Pell grant (federal grant). Health Risks The scope and impact of health risks from alcohol and drug use are both alarming and well documented, ranging from mood-altering to life- threatening, with consequences that extend beyond the individual to family, organizations and society at large. The university, therefore, conducts regular programs to educate its students, faculty, and staff that consumption and use of drugs may alter behavior, distort perception, impair thinking, impede judgment, and lead to physical or psychological dependence. Alcohol and/or drug use may lead to the deterioration of physical health by causing or contributing to various health conditions including but not limited to fatigue, nausea, personal injury, insomnia, pathological organ damage, some forms of cancer, pancreatitis, heart attack, respiratory depression, birth defects, convulsions, coma, and even death. Alcohol and drug use may also result in deterioration of mental health by causing or contributing to various conditions such as increased aggression, hallucinations, depression, disorientation, and psychosis. Alcohol consumption causes a number of marked changes in behavior. Even low doses significantly impair the judgment and coordination required to drive a car safely, increasing the likelihood that the driver will be involved in an accident. Low to moderate doses of alcohol also increases the incidence of a variety of aggressive acts, including spouse and child abuse. Moderate to high doses of alcohol cause marked impairments in higher mental functions, severely altering a person’s ability to learn and remember information. Very high doses cause respiratory depression and death. If combined with other depressants of the central nervous system, much lower doses of alcohol will produce the effects just described. Repeated use of alcohol can lead to dependence. Sudden cessation of alcohol intake is likely to produce withdrawal symptoms, including severe anxiety, tremors, hallucinations, and convulsions. Alcohol withdrawal can be life-threatening. Long-term consumption of large quantities of alcohol, particularly when combined with poor nutrition, can also lead to permanent damage to vital organs such as the brain and the liver. Mothers who drink alcohol during pregnancy may give birth to infants with fetal alcohol syndrome. These infants have irreversible physical abnormalities and intellectual disabilities. In addition, research indicates that children of alcoholic parents are at greater risk than other children of becoming alcoholics. Training, Counseling, and Resources The University of Louisville is committed to the overall health and well-being of students, faculty, and staff and encourages a compassionate university. Required online sexual assault prevention and alcohol awareness training programs Consistent with federal law, UofL requires, as a condition of course registration, that all incoming students complete online sexual assault prevention training and, for students who will be under the age of 21 on the “add” deadline in the semester they matriculate at UofL, alcohol awareness training. Emails are sent to each student’s UofL email account (beginning about 5 weeks before their first semester begins) to provide specific directions for accessing the training programs. The sexual assault prevention course and alcohol awareness course are two separate programs. There is no fee for either program. Visit the Title IX website for more information. Kentucky Medical Amnesty Law KRS 244.992 Medical amnesty for persons reporting an alcohol overdose: (1) A person shall be immune from prosecution for the criminal offenses identified in subsection (2) of this section if: (a) A law enforcement officer has contact with the person because the person: 1. Requests emergency medical assistance for himself or herself or another person; 2. Acts in concert with another person who requests emergency medical assistance; or 3. Appears to be in need of emergency medical assistance and is the individual for whom the request is made See KRS 244.992 for full text. Good Samaritan Consideration The health and safety of our students is of the highest priority. At times, students may need immediate medical or other professional assistance. However, students may be reluctant to get help because of concerns that their own behavior may be a violation of the Code of Student Conduct. Although policy violations cannot be overlooked, the University will consider the positive impact of reporting an incident when determining the appropriate response for policy violations. Continuous efforts are made to make students, faculty, and staff aware of programs that provide information and professional services on matters related to the abuse of alcohol and drugs. The Building Resilience In Campus Community (BRICC) Coalition, Counseling Center, Health Promotion Office, The PEACC Center, and the University of Louisville Police Department provide a number of programs and workshops using a tiered approach: a) primary prevention in the form of awareness, skill-building, and risk-reduction for all students and b) targeted presentations for specific high-risk populations. The University Counseling Center is committed to assisting students with their mental health, personal development, and academic development. Because substance use is often connected to other personal/psychological issues, students coming to the Counseling Center with alcohol and substance use concerns are provided with support, appropriate therapeutic interventions, and referrals when necessary. Building Resilience in Campus Community (BRICC) Coalition: (502) 852-3442; https://louisville.edu/bricc Campus Health Services: (502) 852-6479; https://louisville.edu/campushealth Counseling Center: (502) 852-6585; louisville.edu/counseling Health Promotion Office: (502) 852-5429; louisville.edu/healthpromotion The PEACC Center: (502) 852-2663; louisville.edu/peacc University of Louisville Police Department: (502) 852-7233; louisville.edu/police Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Employee Relations and Compliance Employee Relations Human Resources Employee Relations (502) 852-6258 Hours: MTWRF 8:30 AM – 5 PM https://louisville.edu/hr/employeerelations Employee Relations assists the management of each department of the University with problem prevention by fairly and effectively managing its staff according to University policy. Much of the activity of this office involves employee counseling, policy interpretation and development, advice to managers and employees, problem solving, and interaction with the various units about policy and legal requirements. This office also coordinates the handling of all staff grievances and appeals, complaint investigations, unemployment compensation, and DOT Random Drug/Alcohol Testing Program. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Engage Lead Serve Board (ELSB) W310 Student Activities Center, (502) 852-4333, Fax (502) 852-7332 Web: http://www.uoflelsb.org EngageUofL portal: https://louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/organization/elsb The Engage Lead Serve Board (ELSB) is the service branch of the Student Government Association. ELSB’s mission is to foster an inclusive community that encourages individuals to evaluate their social location and role to society through compassionate service, activity community engagement and intentional leadership. ELSB is comprised of six committees focused on a variety of social issues and five programs (Alternative Service Breaks, Vote Everywhere, Freshmen LEAD, Task Force Freshmen, and the Commonwealth Credit Union Cardinal Cupboard). Students interested in contacting ELSB can reach them at talktous@uoflelsb.org. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) https://louisville.edu/oapa/consumer-information-1/ferpa The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (often referred to as FERPA, or the Buckley Amendment) requires that students have the right to inspect and review most education records maintained about them by the University of Louisville, and, in many cases, decide whether or not a third party may obtain information from them. No one will have access to a student's education records, nor will their contents be disclosed, without the written consent of the student, except as provided by the Act. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Fort Knox Center Fort Knox Army Education Center Bldg. 65, 31 Warehouse Street, room 205 Fort Knox, KY 40292 (502) 852-6444 (502) 852-7706 FAX Web: https://www.armyignited.com/app/ The Fort Knox Center offers upper division and graduate course work on an evening schedule. Degree programs include B.S. Organizational Leadership and Learning and M.S. Human Resource and Organization Development. Schedules are published in the regular course schedule and separately by the Fort Knox Center. Courses primarily support the Fort Knox and surrounding communities, but are open to all U of L student through normal registration procedures. Tuition is capped at $250.00 per semester hour for all undergraduate courses taught on Fort Knox. Student services support and computer lab access are available to local area students. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Fraternity and Sorority Life W310 Student Activities Center, 502-852-0316, FAX 852-7332 Hours: M - F 10:00 AM - 6 PM Web: https://louisville.edu/involvement/fsl Since 1921, fraternities and sororities at the University of Louisville have been a core component of the undergraduate college experience. Nearly 1,700 undergraduate students are members of 33 fraternities and sororities at the University of Louisville. Fraternity and sorority members excel academically, hold leadership positions within their chapters and across the campus, raise hundreds of thousands of dollars for charitable causes each year, and are more likely to graduate from UofL. After joining a fraternity or sorority, members report gaining a feeling of belonging on campus, a support system, confidence, and academic help among many other benefits. Visit our website to learn more about how to join. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Gheens Science Hall and Rauch Planetarium The weather is always perfect in the planetarium so climb aboard our virtual spaceship as we take you through our solar system to the edges of the known universe. Or, chill out to your favorite music in our laser music shows. Check out our special events and live presentations about exciting, current astronomical events. Public shows are on weekends (Friday evenings, Saturday afternoons and one Sunday each month). Admission: $6 per person (up to 4 tickets per show - must show UofL ID). Call 502-852-6664 or check our website for updated show schedules and special program information. https://www.louisville.edu/planetarium Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Hazing and Initiation Activities Policy The University is dedicated to promoting a safe and healthy campus environment for its students, faculty, staff, and visitors. As such, the University does not tolerate hazing. As required by KRS 164.375, the University has adopted a policy prohibiting hazing activities that applies to the conduct of students, faculty and staff, as well as visitors, other licensees and invitees on campus. Hazing. Engagement, encouragement, or facilitation, by any organization or by any individual on behalf of an organization or group (recognized or not recognized by the university), or visitor within the University of Louisville community in any action or situation which recklessly or intentionally endangers mental or physical health; creates an atmosphere of servitude; involves dangerous, demeaning, or ridiculing activities; involves forced consumption of alcohol, drugs or other object; for the purpose of initiation, admission into, affiliation with, or as a condition of continued membership in, a group or organization. The express or implied consent of the individual will not be a defense. Violation of this policy by any student or student group will subject the individual and/or student group to the Student Code of Conduct https://louisville.edu/dos/students/codeofconduct. University faculty or staff, are subject to disciplinary action under the provision of the Redbook. Violations of this policy are subject to referral to appropriate University, and law enforcement officials, as well as to regional and national affiliated offices, for action or prosecution. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer University of Louisville History https://louisville.edu/about/history Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Information Centers If you're calling U of L for information about telephone listings, campus telephone operators can help you 24 hours a day at 502-852-5555. Website: https://louisville.edu/infocenters North Information Center 502-852-6565 1999 S. First Street M - F 7:45 AM – 4:00 PM Closed on weekends and University holidays Tammy Lawson, Manager West Information Center 502-852-6571 2307 South Third Street M - F 7:45 AM – 4:00 PM Closed on weekends and University holidays Tammy Lawson, Manager Center Services: Visitor services Parking information General UofL contacts and information One-day visitor parking permit One-day replacement parking permit Belknap Campus tours Maps Lost & Found Metro Louisville general information Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Information Technology Services Web: https://www.louisville.edu/its We’re dedicated to supporting your technology experience at UofL. Through our wide selection of applications and core services, we’re here to help you in the pursuit of your learning, teaching, research and administrative goals. The Basics Students automatically get a UofL email account when officially admitted as a student. You’ll need to check this account for all important university emails (including those from your professors). Your email account is part of our @louisville.edu Office365 cloud-based system. Log in with your userID@louisville.edu and password at: https://outlook.office365.com. You can use the online OWA (Office for Web Application) or through MS Outlook on your computer or device. Students also get Office 365 products for free, which includes applications like Word, PowerPoint, Excel and OneNote plus 50GB of cloud storage. You can install Microsoft Office 365 ProPlus on up to five devices, including PCs, Macs, phones or tablets. See https://louisville.edu/email/student-accounts for more information. Log in to ULink, (https://ulink.louisville.edu) to register for classes, search for your schedule, look for your grades, review your transcript, or manage your computer accounts and more all in one, convenient location. ULink connects you to all the services and information you need while at UofL. CardBox is our free, unlimited file storage and collaboration tool. An easy-to-use Box account with mobile, online and desktop applications. Users can share folders, files, collaborate within and outside of the university, plus integrate automatic back-ups for O365 and personal folders. To request a CardBox account, go to ULink > My Page > IT Information > Computer Accounts. There are four types of WiFi access available on each campus, depending upon your needs and UofL sign-in options. ULsecure is the preferred UofL wireless network for students, faculty and staff. To access the ULsecure network: Select ulsecure from your device's list of available wireless networks. Enter your ULink user ID. At the prompt, enter your password. Accept the ULsecure certificate and authenticate your device, if prompted. IT HelpDesk Got questions? Need help accessing the wireless? HelpDesk agents are available to assist you with any technology questions – including email, wireless, passwords, and much more! Use our online service, online support chat or call a HelpDesk consultant at (502) 852-7997. Go to https://helpdesk.louisville.edu>. iTech Connect Need some 1:1 help? iTech Connect offers personal assistance on the Belkap campus. Staff can help with wireless connectivity, passwords and much more. Drop by iTech Connect next to the iTech Zone Computing Center on the lower level of Miller Information Technology Center, M-F 8am-5pm for face-to-face help. Tech Purchases Visit iTech Xpress at https://louisville.onthehub.com/ and sign-in to look for discounted software and links to technology partners for personal computers. Go to the online UofL Campus Store at https://www.bkstr.com/uoflstore/shop/technology for options on a range of discounted computers and accessories. Additionally, several computer vendors offer discounts to higher education on personal purchases made online directly through vendor web sites. Belknap Campus Miller Information Technology Center 502-852-6661, FAX: 502-852-7410 Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Use of Intellectual Property https://louisville.edu/it/policies Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Interfaith Center Web: https://louisville.edu/religion/ Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer International Student and Scholar Services (ISSS) Brodschi Hall 502-852-6604 Hours: MTWRF 8:30 AM - 5:00 PM E-Mail: isss@louisville.edu Web: http://louisville.edu/internationalcenter/isss International Student & Scholar Services (ISSS) provides and promotes student success through support, advising, and advocacy regarding immigration, cross-cultural, and personal matters. ISSS supports a welcoming environment through educational, social, and cross-cultural programming. ISSS serves the international population, facilitates intercultural and international education, and fosters a global campus community. Our focus includes: Ensure and facilitate compliance with US federal regulations related to immigration and the attendance of F1 and J1 student and scholars at the University of Louisville To Support Student Success - Foster platforms for academic and professional development and success of international graduate, undergraduate, and exchange students and scholars on campus Advocacy and Promotion of International and Global Understanding and Perspectives Connect International Students with the Campus and Local Community Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer International Service Learning Program W310 Student Activities Center 502-852-6934, FAX 502-852-7332 Hours: MTWRF 8:30 AM – 5:00PM Web: https://louisville.edu/islp The International Service Learning Program facilitates educational experiences in which students engage in activities to address human and community needs while being guided through structured itineraries designed to promote student learning and development. This interdisciplinary program contributes to campus internationalization by infusing the classroom with cross-cultural engagement that prepares students to be more receptive to global and comparative perspectives. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Intramural and Recreational Sports Student Recreation Center 502-852-6707, Fax 502-852-6709 Hours: MTWRF 8:30 AM - 5:00 PM Web: https://louisville.edu/intramurals This department offers a wide range of recreational sports opportunities for student, faculty and staff including competitive sports, informal recreation, fitness, sport clubs and special events. It operates recreational sports facilities in the new Student Recreation Center and the HSC Fitness Center. These facilities are open to students, faculty, staff and alumni members (except HSC Fitness Center) and their dependents with a currently validated university ID. Use of the new Student Recreation Center requires a membership for faculty and staff, The HSC Fitness Center is free for faculty and staff. On October 28, 2013, the department moved into the new Student Recreation Center on 4th Street between Kurz and Minardi halls. The new center is 128,000 square feet and features 6 basketball courts, 14,000 square feet of strength and fitness equipment, 117 pieces of cardio equipment, an indoor soccer court, martial arts room, 3 group fitness studios, an indoor track, squash and racquetball courts and an indoor golf simulator. There is also a snack bar featuring healthy smoothies and local produce options. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer The LGBT Center 120 E Brandeis Ave. Louisville, Kentucky 40292 https://louisville.edu/lgbt We have offices on both the Belknap Campus and the Health Sciences Center (HSC) to meet the diverse needs of our campus community. The Belknap office is located in the new dorm that also houses the Diversity & Equity Centers. The LGBT Centre shares space with four other offices under the Senior Associate Vice President for Diversity and Equity, including: the Cultural Center; Diversity Education and Inclusive Excellence; The Muhammad Ali Institute for Peace and Justice; and the Women's Center. All offices share a student lounge, a space where students come together to explore social justice issues and work across their differences to support the university's broadest vision for a diverse campus. All are welcome! If you are looking for a place where you can be yourself and meet new friends, come see us. The HSC office works with the schools of Medicine, Nursing, Dentistry, and Public Health and Information Sciences and provides expertise to train future health care providers while also supporting members of the LGBT community. A curriculum infusion project, training on health and wellness for LGBT patients, Pride Month events, and a vibrant student organization are pillars of the work we do at the HSC. The office is located in the A Building, Room 209C/D. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Lost and Found https://louisville.edu/sac/forms/lostandfound Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer The Louisville Cardinal https://www.louisvillecardinal.com Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer UofL Print and Mail Services, powered by Canon Belknap Print and Mail Services Swain Student Activities Center W119 Counter Services: Hours: M - F 8:00 AM – 5:00 PM Package Locker Lobby: Open during regular posted hours for the SAC Phone: 502-852-6661 HSC Campus: Print Services and Mail Services School of Dentistry, Room 54 Hours: M - F 8:00 AM to 4:30 PM Phone: 502-852-5287 Web: https://louisville.edu/printandmail Email: ulprint@louisville.edu UofL Print and Mail Services, operated by Canon Solutions America provides printing and mailing services for the University community. Print Anywhere for Student Printing Student mobile printing and Print Anywhere, which allows a student to send a print job from wherever they are and retrieve it from their personal secured print queue at any Canon print device on campus. How Student Printing Works: First, send a print job in one of these ways: From a university computer, select one of the PrintAnywhere drivers from the printer list. Email an attachment to BWprint@louisville.edu or CLRprint@louisville.edu. From inside the louisville.edu network, upload a file to your Print Central dashboard. Then, retrieve your print job: Find any Canon print device with a PrintAnywhere label Swipe your Cardinal Card or log in using your UofL username and password (Add cash to your card at vending stations or through the Cardinal Cash web portal.) Select the job you want from your personal, secure print queue and print it out Mail Services Services offered: Incoming Mail and Package Services for students living in university housing Postage Stamps available for purchase Outgoing Mail Services – Parcel & Letter Mail via USPS Prepaid Label Drop-off location – for UPS & USPS package shipping Limited Priority Mail Packaging is available at our counter Outgoing Mail is picked up at 3pm – Monday – Friday Student Mail: Students residing in university housing on the Belknap Campus will pick up their mail and packages at the UofL Print and Mail Services Center in the Swain Student Activities Center in the Herman and Heddy Kurz Pavilion wing in room W119. Letter and magazine mail can be picked up at the counter Monday through Friday, 8:00 am to 5:00 pm, with Student ID. Students will not receive notification for letter mail. We recommend students check their mail at minimum once every seven (7) days. Letter mail is held for 10 days, unclaimed mail will then be returned to the original sender. We are provided the student’s legal name by the university housing, to avoid delivery delays, all student mail should be addressed as follows: Student’s Legal First and Last Name (no nicknames or preferred names) Residence Hall Name 2100 S. Floyd St, Suite W119 Louisville, KY 40292-0001 For packages shipping via Amazon, UPS, FedEx, or DHL, you must use zip code 40208 to avoid delays and potential fees from the carrier. Package delivery will be through our parcel locker system. Parcels received for students will be placed in lockers and an email and/or text will be sent to the student’s UofL email address and cell phone on file with student housing. Packages are processed as they are received from each carrier, please allow 24 hours* for this email notification from ulprint@louisville.edu, (*USPS shipped packages can show delivered up to 3 days prior to the actual delivery to campus). Students will receive a code to open the locker and retrieve their parcel. Lockers are accessible during normal SAC posted hours. Oversize parcels will be kept behind the counter and can picked up during counter service hours. Packages placed in the locker system will be held for Ten (10) calendar days. Oversized parcels are held for Five (5) business days. Unclaimed Packages will be returned to the original sender via the original carrier. We do not offer forwarding services. We only accept packages sent through the USPS, FedEx, UPS, DHL, Amazon and LaserShip. We do not accept deliveries from Florists, Pharmacies, DoorDash, UberEats, Best Buy, Walmart or any other same day quick ship services. For time sensitive mail/packages, we recommend these be shipped through UPS or FedEx. USPS mail sent to the university is handled as business mail, unlike residential mail it can be delayed by up to 3 business days prior to delivery on campus and is not recommended for time sensitive mail. Our office is closed on Saturday, Sunday and on all university holidays. We do not accept deliveries outside of our normal business hours. Any letters or packages we receive with a nickname, preferred name or parent’s name, or without a name, will be held behind the counter for five business days. Tracking information and written approval to release if not in the student’s name will be required to pick up misaddressed mail and packages. No notification is sent on items received with incorrect or missing information. All inquiries regarding student mail must be made in person or in writing by the recipient, we are unable to release any information regarding student mail over the phone. Printing Services The Print and Mail Center offers full commercial production printing services through our on campus digital print center or via our team of local contracted vendors. From large-scale marketing campaigns to a single research poster, every project is approached with a high level of attention to detail and brand consistency. Visit us for help and expert advice from our Canon print professionals. Print Storefront: https://printing.louisville.edu/login Services Offered: Full-Service Printing Postcards and flyers Invitations Envelopes Brochures Booklets Labels Promotional Items And more... Wide Format Research posters Banners Yard signs Canvas and fine-art printing Sizes up to 44” wide Finishing Saddle binding Folding Coil binding Lamination Cutting Embossing and foil stamping Die cutting Direct Mail Fulfillment Addressing services and other variable-data printing Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Maps Belknap Campus Map Health Sciences Campus Map Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Meal Plans https://louisville.campusdish.com Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Metropolitan College 3 Houchens Building 502-852-2749, FAX 502-852-2752 Hours: MR 9:00 AM - 5:00 PM; TW 9:00 AM - 6:00 PM Metropolitan College (MC) is a joint venture between the University of Louisville, Jefferson Community and Technical College and UPS. This nationally recognized partnership provides access to a tuition-free post-secondary education for undergraduate students and outstanding employment opportunities. To participate in this program as a UofL student, you must be admissible to the university and meet Metropolitan College admission requirements (Earned 60 or more transferable college credit hours or have an ACT composite of 21 or above and a high school grade point average of 3.0 or above). A strong student services component is built into the MC program to assist students as they manage working at UPS while balancing school and personal life. In addition, MC provides comprehensive career counseling services tailored to each student's needs to facilitate effective career exploration and planning. For more information, call 502-852-2749, email us at askmetro@kctcs.edu or visit our website at www.metro-college.com Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Metroversity http://metroversity.org/registration UofL Metroversity information: https://louisville.edu/registrar/registration/registration-specific/specific-registration-information/#metroversity Kentuckiana Metroversity, Inc. is a cooperative effort consisting of the following institutions: Bellarmine University, Indiana University Southeast, Ivy Tech Community College, Jefferson Community and Technical College, Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary, Southern Baptist Theological Seminary, Spalding University, and the University of Louisville. A full-time student, (must be in good standing and earned a minimum of 12 credit hours at their home school) of any of these schools may enjoy cross registration, double degree programs, library privileges, innovative off-campus experiences, and extracurricular activities at any of the other schools (certain restrictions apply). Full-time U of L students should consult with their academic advisor and the Registrar's Office to ensure proper enrollment. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Military and Veteran Student Services Houchens Building, LL32 502-852-6442 Hours: Mon – Fri; 9 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. Office of Military and Veteran Student Services (OMVSS) is here to support current military and veteran students as well as dependents receiving military educational benefits. Our charge is to address questions and concerns regarding veteran issues such as VA benefits, admissions, transfer, housing, financial aid, and other circumstances common to military-to-civilian life transitions. The VA Certifying Official is located in our office, to ensure that you have access to educational benefits. We work with various university faculty and staff. We offer assistance with and/or information on: payment extensions or financial aid while waiting for educational benefits military transfer credit withdrawals due to deployments or call to active duty status referrals to service agencies access to veteran service providers on campus student rights and responsibilities events for veterans and military families For information regarding benefits and additional services, visit https://louisville.edu/admissions/apply/transfer/veterans. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Mission Statement https://louisville.edu/about Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Non-Academic Grievance Procedure https://louisville.edu/provost/redbook/contents.html/chap6.html#ART6.8 Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Off Campus Student Services Office of Student Involvement W310 Swain Student Activities Center University of Louisville Phone: 502-852-6691 Fax 502-852-7332 Web: https://louisville.edu/involvement/student-organizations/off-campus Off Campus Student Services provides services and support for off campus students at the University of Louisville. Whether you are enrolling in one class or embarking on a new career, the Office of Student Involvement provides a friendly, supportive environment where students may come for information, advocacy, or a place to study or relax. Sign in to EngageUofL (https://www.louisville.edu/engage) to connect to campus activities right away! Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Parking and Transportation Services Belknap Campus Floyd Street Garage 2126 S. Floyd Street, Suite 100 502-852-PARK(7275), FAX 502-852-6680 Belknap Campus Shuttle (TARC Route #94) Operates from 6:40am - 9:40pm Monday - Thursday 6:40am to 7:40pm on Friday when classes are in session Health Sciences Center Campus Chestnut Street Parking Garage 414 East Chestnut Street 502-852-5112 FAX 502-852-1622 Hours: M-F 8:00 AM - 4:00 PM (Closed 1 - 2 PM) Health Sciences Center Campus Shuttle Operates 6:00am-10:00pm Monday-Friday Any motor vehicle parked on University property, other than in paid meter spaces and designated pay parking locations, must display a valid University of Louisville parking permit. The Parking Offices issue parking permits, accept parking fine payments, provide a motorist assistance (MAP) program for minor vehicle problems such as flat tires, battery, keys locked in vehicle. An evening campus mobility service (Cardinal Cruiser) is also provided to assist individuals to and from their vehicles. The service is provided through University Police from dusk until dawn, seven days a week simply dialing 852-6111. Parking rules and regulations are published annually, issued with permits, and serve as guidelines for parking on campus. Replacement permits, for one-day, may be obtained from either of the Parking Offices. Persons with accessible parking needs should contact the Parking Office. A University accessible parking permit is required to park on campus in H/C designated spaces. A number of alternative transportation programs are offered at the University. You can view these alternative transportation programs at https://louisville.edu/sustainability. Contact the Parking Office at 852-7803 for campus events requiring special parking accommodations two weeks in advance of the event. Website: https://louisville.edu/parking Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Reaffirmation of Commitment to Equal Educational & Employment Opportunity https://louisville.edu/hr/employeerelations/eeo-affirmative-action Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer REACH (Resources for Academic Achievement) Resources for Academic Achievement (REACH) is the university’s centralized academic support unit for undergraduate students. REACH conducts multiple services and programs from the Belknap Academic Classroom Building (BACB), Ekstrom Library, and the Academic & Leadership Center (JB Speed 107). These academic support services and retention programs offer students the opportunity to better prepare and adapt to college life and to improve their academic skills and performance in college courses. REACH’s mission statement, values statement, goals, and annual reports are available on the REACH website. ARTS & SCIENCES, HUMANITIES, & MUSIC SUPPORT The Learning Resource Center (BACB 248 and 250) Scheduled Tutoring offers students small group tutoring sessions each week for many 100-, 200-, and some 300-level courses. These sessions provide guided study and review of course material. Tutoring sessions are scheduled for 60-minute recurring, weekly sessions. Online tutoring sessions are also available, and scheduled drop-in hours are available for select science lab courses, select languages, and other courses. Find more information about scheduling on the REACH website. Peer Assisted Learning (PAL) provides weekly class and exam review sessions for specific courses that are historically difficult for students. PAL facilitators work closely with the faculty of these courses to integrate how to learn with what to learn. PAL is voluntary and free, with sessions designed to assist small and large groups of students. Find more information about Peer Assisted Learning on the REACH website. Individual Tutoring is available for students who have documented physical or learning disabilities and need accommodated tutoring sessions. Documentation must be provided to REACH from the Disability Resource Center at the time of a student’s request. Students receive individualized tutoring and additional tutoring time in scheduled onsite or online appointments each week. Find more information on tutoring on the REACH website. Language Conversation Tables offer students conversation opportunities for practice in speaking a new language. Tables vary each semester, but may include Spanish, French, Arabic, ASL, German, and others. These sessions offer additional practice to prepare for the classroom and real-world scenarios. Available tables and meeting schedules are available on the REACH website. Academic Coaching helps students who want to improve their academic and self-management skills, such as time management, organization, test taking, study skills, and life skills. Students develop a personalized goals and work with our coaches to develop self-advocacy and become independent, life-long learners. Learn more on our Academic Coaching website. Special Topics in Supplemented College Reading (GEN 105) (BACB 248) helps first-time, first-year, and transfer students with less than 24 credit hours who are admitted to the university with identified college reading deficiencies. Under Kentucky state law, identified students are required to register for a section of GEN 105 (2 credit hours) in their first college semester. Find more information on GEN 105 on the REACH website. The Hackademic Series, available to all UofL students, are 50-minute workshops that help students develop effective academic strategies and skills (e.g., mindset, developing grit, time management, studying smarter, note-taking, textbook reading, test-taking, preparing for finals, and becoming a disciplined student). The Hackademic Series is offered both online and on-site. All first-year students can find these interactive, online modules in their Blackboard Organizations (named the Online Hackademic Series by REACH). SmartCards provides invaluable, online financial success resources through fun, interactive, and dynamic content. You'll receive a personalized plan with recommendations on content to help you with financial decision making. Explore the wide array of SmartCard content on our website. Graduate Exam Preparation Workshops are offered for free through our partnership with The Princeton Review. Workshops and free, full-length practice tests are available for the GRE, GMAT, LSAT, MCAT, DAT, and OAT. Interested students may also receive tutoring for CLEP, a national testing program designed to help students earn college credit for selected general education courses. Graduate Exam Preparation Workshop registration is required. MATHEMATICS SUPPORT The Math Resource Center (MRC, BACB 241) offers drop-in and online tutoring to students enrolled in most 100- and 200-level university mathematics courses, including Special Topics in College Mathematics courses (GEN 103 and GEN 104). Resources include knowledgeable tutors, a mini-computer lab for mathematics software, and web-based instruction. Find more information on mathematics tutoring on the REACH website. Special Topics in College Mathematics (GEN 103 and GEN 104) are three credit hour intervention courses in mathematics that are offered through REACH Math Resources. These courses are designed for students who are not eligible to take the mathematics or quantitative reasoning course required for their intended major/program (due to ACT or SAT math sub-scores or math placement test scores). GEN 103 (for non-STEM majors) or GEN 104 (for STEM majors) are computer-based courses that focus on pre-algebra and algebra topics--such as linear equations and factoring--and utilize an online homework, tutorial, and assessment program. Successful completion of GEN 103 and/or GEN 104 is required for students to progress to the mathematics and/or quantitative reasoning courses required for their program. More information on intervention coursework is available on the REACH website. The Math Xcelerator Program offers students who place into GEN 103 or GEN 104 a free, four-week intensive review during the summer. Students qualify if their ACT math sub-score is between 0-18, SAT math sub-score is between 0-490, or their Accuplacer score is between 200-262. Successful completion of the program reduces the amount of intervention coursework for the fall semester. The Speed Calculus Preview Program is a fee-based summer program designed for first-year engineering students. Although students may be referred to this program based on their standardized test scores, it is highly recommended to all admitted engineering students prior to their first fall semester. This program provides an advanced algebra review to help students prepare for calculus in the J.B. Speed School of Engineering. COLLEGE OF BUSINESS & ENGINEERING SUPPORT Computer Resource Centers (First floor Learning Commons-Ekstrom Library and the Academic & Leadership Center, J.B. Speed 107) The Computer Resources Centers offers scheduled and drop-in tutoring and test reviews for select College of Business courses (Ekstrom Library location) as well as targeted Speed School of Engineering courses (Academic & Leadership Center). Additionally, we help students understand the most common technologies used on campus including Microsoft Office Suite products, Blackboard, ULink, email, and basic computer operations. No appointments needed for drop-in support! More information is available on the REACH website. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Recognized Student Organization (RSO) W310 Student Activities Center and Red Barn RSO Resource Center 502-852-0317 Hours: MTWRF 10:00AM – 6:00PM Web: https://louisville.edu/involvement/student-organizations The University of Louisville hosts over 400 student organizations covering a wide variety of student interest. These groups provide a wonderful opportunity to become involved in campus life and to connect with other students on campus. Student Involvement oversees all Recognized Student Organizations (RSO) on campus and assists with the formation of new groups, leadership training, new member intake and the planning of numerous campus events. The staff is available to consult with individuals and organizations to help them succeed and get involved. All students as able to access our RSO resource, EngageUofL, through https://louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/. Create an account and get started! Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer George J. Howe Red Barn Red Barn Programs Office Mailing Address: W310 Student Activities Center FAX 502-852-5844 For Red Barn Information call 502-852-7467 or 502-852-0321. https://louisville.edu/sac/space/red-barn The Red Barn is a multipurpose facility for educational, cultural, social and educational events sponsored by students, alumni and University groups. The Red Barn established in 1969, is now the home of the Red Barn Programs Office. The Red Barn Programs Office is also responsible for raising money to provide scholarships and emergency awards for U of L students and program funds for U of L student groups through four endowed programs which are the: Harold Adams Memorial Scholarship Fund, the Red Barn Alumni Association (RBAA) including the Florence M. Strickler Endowment and the RBAA Endowment, the Dennis C. Golden Torchbearer Program including the Dennis C. Golden Torchbearer Endowment and the George J. Howe Endowment and the George J. Howe Student Leadership Gift Account. The Red Barn is available for use by recognized student organizations and departments on a first come, first serve basis. The Red Barn can also be used for private events, including wedding receptions. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Registrar's Office 31 Houchens Building, (502) 852-6522, FAX (502) 852-7088 Hours: M-F 9 AM to 5 PM. Website: https://louisville.edu/registrar/ Email: regoff@louisville.edu This office is responsible for registration, drop/add, class schedule information, Undergraduate catalog, academic records, official and unofficial transcripts, enrollment certifications and degree verifications, recording of grades, visiting student letters, and diplomas. When a student drops below a full-time course load, his/her eligibility for financial aid or participation in athletics may be jeopardized. Health insurance may also be affected. Change of address may be done via ULINK or in person. Name changes require appropriate documentation (updated social security card, Visa, etc.), a photo ID and signature authorizing the name change. Grades: Grades and class information are available via the student’s ULINK account. Schedule of Classes: https://htmlaccess.louisville.edu/classSchedule/setupSearchClassSchedule.cfm Transcripts: Official transcripts may be obtained from the Registrar's Office (31 Houchens Building) upon written request. Students may submit their requests over the web via ULINK. A fee is charged for this service. Upon graduation, a student is eligible to receive one free official transcript. Unofficial transcripts can be viewed via ULink. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Religious Holy Days and Observances https://louisville.edu/calendars/work-restricted-religious-holy-days Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Residency Classification Please visit the residency web site for current information. Web: https://louisville.edu/residency Residency Determination for Admission and Tuition Purposes KRS164.020(8) requires the Kentucky Council on Postsecondary Education to determine tuition and approve the minimum qualifications for admission to a state supported postsecondary education institution and authorizes the Council to set different tuition amounts for residents of Kentucky and for nonresidents. The administrative regulation, 13 KAR 2:045, establishes the procedure and guidelines for determining the residency status of a student who is seeking admission to, and who is enrolled at, a state-supported postsecondary education institution. Students who wish to seek a change in their initial residency determination may file an appeal for review of residency status with the Registrar’s Office. An application for review must include completed affidavit and verifiable documentation. Applications for review will be considered in accordance with the Kentucky administrative regulation 13 KAR 2:045. The appeal must be submitted according to the published deadlines. The affidavit, state regulation, university policy, deadlines, and instructions may be found and printed from the residency web site or may be obtained from all Offices of Admission and the Registrar’s Office (Houchens 31). Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer University of Louisville Recognized Student Organizations (RSO) Event Policy & Guidelines https://louisville.edu/dos/students/studentorganizations/alcohol-policy Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Advice and Tips to Avoid Being Scammed College students are a vulnerable population for scammers. There are scams that have been created specifically to target the college population. Scammers want you to make decisions in a hurry, and they might even threaten you once they have your money. Before you give up your money or personal information to anyone, slow down, check out the story, do an online search, consult an expert, or discuss it with a family member or friend. Below are some tips and warning signs to avoid being victimized by a scam: To avoid scam attempts — Never give out your personal information (name, address, date of birth, banking account information, user name, password, or social security number) to anyone unless you are 100% sure of the entity being a legitimate organization or financial institution. Make sure you always log into a website by going directly to the organization’s URL, and always check the address bar to make sure you have not been redirected to a copycat site as part of a fraud. Whenever in doubt, contact the company directly, and if something sounds too good to be true, it probably is. Free Public Wi-Fi — Whenever using an unsecured connection, never login to sensitive sites, like your bank account. Additionally, using password protection software and encryption can also make your activities harder to track. Behavior blackmail — Always be mindful of your behavior and surroundings. Make sure you do not upload sensitive pictures or videos to social media sites that may be a bit reckless, embarrassing, or harmful to your reputation. Scam artists prey on vulnerable situations; they access this information and use it as a tactic for blackmailing students to extort money. Fake credit card or financial scams — Be aware of credit card or financial loan solicitations that are received through email or phone calls. Scammers are using these methods as a tactic to gain access to your valuable personal information. Never respond to any phone or email solicitation attempts for these offers. If the offer sounds too good to be true, it most likely is a fraud. If you are looking for loans to pay educational expenses, consult the University of Louisville’s Financial Aid Office or reputable loan providers. Never give out your personal information to any unknown source. Advance fee scams — If you are presented with an offer that requires you to pay an upfront fee to receive funds or services in return, do not respond to the email or immediately discontinue the phone call. Solicitations for upfront fees are most likely coming from a fraudster; do not provide any upfront payment or personal information. Never deposit a check and wire money back — By law, banks must make funds from deposited checks available within days, uncovering a fake check can sometimes take weeks. If a check you deposit turns out to be a fake, you are responsible for repaying the bank. Spot imposters — Scammers often pretend to be someone you trust, like a government official, a family member, a charity, or a company you do business with on regular basis. Never send money or give out personal information in response to an unexpected request whether it comes as a text, a phone call, or an email. Hang up on robocalls — If you answer the phone and hear a recorded sales pitch, hang up and report it to the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) (https://www.ftccomplaintassistant.gov). These calls are illegal, and often the products are bogus. Do not press 1 to speak to a person or to be taken off the list. That could lead to more calls. Be skeptical about free trial offers — Some companies use free trials to sign you up for products and bill you every month until you cancel. Before you agree to a free trial, research the company and read the cancellation policy. Always review your monthly bank statement for charges you do not recognize. Sign up for free scam alerts from the FTC at https://ftc.gov/scams. Get the latest tips and advice about scams sent right to your inbox. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Student Activities Board Student Activities Center W310 502-852-6691 Web: http://www.uoflsab.org/ EngageUofL portal: https://louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/organization/student-activities-board The purpose of the SAB is to provide social, multicultural, recreational, and educational activities which are sensitive to and serve the needs of the entire campus and surrounding community, with an emphasis on the student body. Such activities include the Floyd Theater movies, comedy shows, daytime activities, concerts, and homecoming festivities. Any student can become involved with the Student Activities Board, for its membership is open to all students at UofL. It provides an excellent chance to become involved in campus life and a chance to meet your fellow students and administrators. The Student Activities Board coordinates and produces all of its own events. Experience can be gained in booking bands, comedians, and movies; planning events as well as vast technical endeavors. If you are interested in becoming a part of the Student Activities Board or co-sponsoring an event with us, email us at general@uoflsab.org or stop by the Student Activities Center W310. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Student Activities Center Administration http://louisville.edu/sac/resources/building-policies Return To Top Of PageDisclaimer Student Affairs Administration Dr. Michael Mardis Vice President for Student Affairs, Dean of Students W301 Student Activities Center (502) 852-5787 FAX (502) 852-1429 EMAIL: dos@louisville.edu Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Student-Athletes, Certification of Academic Requirements The Registrar’s Office certifies the completion of academic requirements set forth in Bylaw 14 of the NCAA Operating Bylaws as published in the NCAA Manual. Status reports are provided to the Athletics Department, not directly to the student-athlete. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Student Computer Accounts https://louisville.edu/admissions/activate Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Student Councils https://www.uoflsga.com/legislative Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Student Discipline W301 Student Activities Center 502-852-5787, FAX 502-852-1429 Hours: M - F 8:00 AM - 5 PM Web: https://louisville.edu/dos The primary purpose for the imposition of non-academic discipline in the University setting is to protect and preserve a quality educational environment in the campus community. The University's Code of Student Conduct is set forth in writing to give students general notice of non-academic prohibited conduct, behavioral expectations, and protections afforded under the Code. The Dean of Students administers the imposition of non-academic student discipline in the University setting as it pertains to the Code of Student Conduct. Anyone wishing to report an alleged incident of non-academic misconduct may make such a report in writing to the University Police or the Dean of Students Office (W301, SAC). Days and hours of operation are subject to change. Please call number listed or 852-5555 for current information. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Student Financial Aid Office 110 Houchens Building 502-852-5511, FAX 502-852-0182 Hours: We provide walk-in counseling to both current and prospective students Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday from 9:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. On Thursdays, the office and call center (502-852-5511) will be open from 12:30 p.m. – 5 p.m. Web: https://louisville.edu/financialaid/ This office disburses over 120 million dollars in aid annually to U of L students from a variety of financial aid programs. These programs include grants, scholarships, part-time employment in the form of Federal Work-Study, and loans. On ULINK students may view items they need to complete from their To-Do-List and view and adjust their financial aid. Students should frequently check their university email for important financial aid announcements regarding their eligibility. Students may come in our office for counseling, which is available on a walk-in basis or by appointment. Students should utilize our Call Center (852-5511) for general information and questions regarding their financial aid status and awards. If needed, students may then be referred to a counselor for specialized assistance on the phone. Days and hours of operation are subject to change. Please call number listed or 852-5555 for current information. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Student Government Association (SGA) W310 Student Activities Center 502-852-4606 Web: www.uoflsga.com/ Email: general@uoflsga.com Hours: MTWRF 8:30 AM - 4:30 PM Health Sciences Campus (HSC) 29 B Bldg. 852-5041 Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Student Grievance Officer The Student Grievance Officer is responsible for informing students of their rights and obligations under the University grievance procedures that have been established (see Redbook). The Student Grievance Officer shall seek to resolve informally as many grievances as possible. Grievances may involve both academic and nonacademic issues. Dr. Joy Hart joy.hart@louisville.edu Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Student Leadership Programs W310 Swain Student Activities Center University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Phone: 502-852-6691 Fax:502-852-7332 https://louisville.campuslabs.com/engage/organization/student-leadership-programs In the Office of Student Involvement, we believe everyone is a leader and we have a variety of offerings. Consider such programs and organizations as Student Activities Board and Engage Lead Serve Board, as well as Alternative Service Break Board and the Student Organization Advisory Board. The focus of all these groups is to develop your skills and training for leadership, as well as assist other students in finding ways to get involved on campus. Just check out our Student Leadership Programs portal for leadership opportunities. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Student Orientation Staff (SOS) Office of Admissions, Houchens 160 Phone Number 502-852-7276 Fax Number 502-852-6526 Email: orient@louisville.edu Web: https://louisville.edu/newcards/meet-the-staff/become-an-soser-1 This staff is hired each year to help direct summer orientation programs for new students. They work with these students in a variety of areas including small groups, academic advising and overall acclimation to the University. Candidates must be in good academic standing (minimum GPA 2.8) and have a desire to help new students learn about U of L. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Student Records Policy Lower Level Room 17, Ekstrom Library Phone Number 502-852-6752 If you have any questions about the current UofL student records policy, UofL's internal procedures for the protection of our students' privacy rights under the U.S. Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), or the privacy of UofL student records or access to U of L student records, you may contact the university's FERPA officer via the University Archives and Records Center. https://library.louisville.edu/archives/ferpa/student-privacy-guidelines Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Student Success Center Belknap Academic Building Phone: 502-852-7969 Email: succeed@louisville.edu The Student Success Center provides support to students throughout their academic journey. Its goal is to keep everyone on a path to graduation, even if the path takes a few turns along the way. The SSC includes peer mentoring, first- and second-year experience programming, and first-generation student support all aimed at promoting student success; academic advising and support to students who have not selected a major, are transitioning between majors, or who have not been admitted into their program of choice; and student success coordinators, who are available to help students overcome obstacles and complete the path to graduation. For additional information about these and other SSC programs, check out https://louisville.edu/studentsuccess. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Title IX Student Sexual Misconduct Policy The Student Sexual Misconduct Policy outlines options for a student who believes he/she may have been or currently is a victim of sexual misconduct by a student, university visitor or employee within the university community. https://louisville.edu/dos/students/studentpoliciesandprocedures/student-sexual-misconduct-policy Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Study Abroad and International Travel Brodschi Hall (First Floor) Phone: 502-852-0374 E-Mail: edabroad@louisville.edu Web: https://www.louisville.edu/studyabroad The Office of Study Abroad and International Travel is located on the first floor of the International Center. The office provides support, resources, and services to the University of Louisville by serving as a liaison between UofL faculty, staff, students, and the global community. By promoting and facilitating international educational experiences in seventy countries, the office is able to provide opportunities for international study, research, internships, and practical experiences outside of the United States. These enriching experiences foster critical thought, intellectual and social growth, knowledge and proficiency for professional success and responsible global citizenship. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Testing Services 310 Davidson Hall 502-852-6606, FAX 502-852-1871 Hours: MTWR 7:00 AM - 5:00 PM note: closed Fridays Web: https://louisville.edu/testing This office serves as a national, regional, state and University testing agency. Campus testing includes: placement tests in Math, Reading & Latin, faculty makeup testing and credit by exam tests (CLEP-College Level Examination Program) which U of L accepts. There are over 100 national entrance and certification exams administered by both our front office and the Prometric Center #1102 including the American College Test (ACT), the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) and the Law School Admission Test (LSAT). This office also serves as a testing site with certified proctors for online or correspondence study exams. Registration materials for exams are available on the Testing Services website. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Thorntons Academic Center of Excellence Web: https://gocards.com/facilities/?id=24 This office provides academic support for all students involved in the University's intercollegiate athletic programs. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer University Administration and Deans https://louisville.edu/president/leadership Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer University Campus Store For your convenience the University of Louisville has campus stores located on both the Belknap Campus and the Health Sciences Campus (HSC). The campus stores offer New and Used textbooks for sale and also offer Rental and E-Textbooks on select titles. School supplies, greeting cards, convenience items, general reading, and reference books, study aids, exam materials such as Blue Books and Scantron Sheets, backpacks, school spirit gifts, and U of L clothing and accessories are also available. The HSC campus store also carries a selection of medical equipment such as Stethoscopes and Scrubs. Textbooks may be purchased in store or online via the campus stores web site or directly from your schedule in U-Link. Online orders can be picked up at the campus stores or be shipped to your home or office via UPS for an additional charge. Save time by having us process your book order for you! Rental textbooks are yours to use for the full term, just don’t forget to return them undamaged by the last day of finals in order to avoid any replacement fees. Textbooks may be returned within the first week of class for a full refund. The return must be accompanied by the original sales receipt and the books must remain in their original condition. With a receipt and a copy of your drop slip, we will process refunds for dropped class books for 30 from the first day of classes. All other items, excluding electronics, can be returned within 30 days of purchase with a receipt as long as the items are still in the original condition. The campus stores accept Cash, Personal Checks (for the purchase amount and with valid ID), Visa, MasterCard, Discover, American Express, Apple Pay, Samsung Pay, Google Pay, and Cardinal Cash. PayPal is accepted on the website. Textbooks cannot be charged directly to Financial Aid or your student account, please have another form of payment available. The campus stores offer buyback of textbooks year round. Please present the books and your valid/current U of L Student ID and we can check the current buy back values for you. The best time to sell back your books is during finals as we are then preparing for the next semester. Belknap Campus Store Student Activities Center E-101 East Side, Lower Level) 2100 S. Floyd Street Phone: 502-852-6679 Fax: 502-852-5913 https://www.bkstr.com/uoflstore Regular Hours of Operation: Monday through Friday 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM Saturday 11:00 AM to 3:00 PM Sunday Closed Health Science Center Campus Store (HSC) 555 S. Floyd Street, K Wing Phone: 502-852-5284 Fax: 502-852-0867 https://www.bkstr.com/uoflhscstore Regular Hours of Operation: Monday through Friday 9:00a-5:00p Closed on Saturdays, Sundays, and Holidays Please note that both campus stores follow the U of L Emergency Closing schedule. Special hours will be posted on the campus store website under the calendar of events. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer University of Louisville Dining Services https://louisville.campusdish.com/ Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer University Libraries The University of Louisville Libraries, a member of the Association of Research Libraries, consists of six libraries which house collections of over two million print items and have access to an abundance of electronic resources. The Libraries’ online catalog lists many of the titles owned by UofL and is accessible from any Internet-connected computer. To access the catalog and other electronic indexes and full text databases, go to https://library.louisville.edu. Ekstrom Library Website: https://library.louisville.edu/ekstrom/home Access & User Services 502-852-6757 Research Assistance 502-852-0433 Ekstrom Library Regular Semester Hours Day East Wing West Wing Monday - Thursday 7:30 am - 2:00 am 24 hours Friday 7:30 am - 6:00 pm 24 hours Saturday 9:00 am - 5:00 pm 24 hours Sunday Noon - 2:00 am 24 hours For exceptions, holiday, and summer hours, check Ekstrom Library's hours page. Ekstrom Library is the largest library in the University Libraries system supporting the majority of disciplines on the Belknap campus. The library’s collections include extensive print, online, and media resources. It also provides group and individual study spaces, a graduate research room and carrels, computers, copiers, printers, scanners, instructional spaces, interlibrary loan and course reserves. Additionally, students may borrow laptops, iPads, digital cameras, and other equipment. The Research Assistance and Instruction department of Ekstrom Library provides in-depth research support in person and online. Ekstrom Library partners with the REACH Computer Lab, the Digital Media Suite (for creating and editing images, sound, and video), and the University Writing Center, to provide a range of academic support services. Starbucks located in the west wing provides a popular gathering spot for students. The Anne Braden Institute for Social Justice, the Delphi Center for the Enhancement of Teaching and Learning, and the McConnell Center are all located on the second floor. Archives and Special Collections Website: https://library.louisville.edu/archives/home Location: Lower Level 17, Ekstrom Library Phone: 502-852-6752 Hours: Monday-Friday 9:00 AM – 5:00 PM (for exceptions, holiday, and summer hours, check ASC's Prepare for Your Visit page Archives and Special Collections (ASC) is made up of four subunits: Digital Initiatives, Photographic Archives, Rare Books, and the University Archives and Records Center. Together, they house more than 2 million fine art and documentary history photographs, literary and historic manuscripts, university records, oral histories, maps, and rare books for use within the Archives and Special Collections Research Room on the lower level of Ekstrom Library. Their collections document life in the greater Louisville area, from business, cultural, and political history to the lives of Louisvillians from various walks of life. In addition, collections such as the Standard Oil of New Jersey photograph collection and William Marshall Bullitt collection of rare mathematics and astronomy materials document life and culture on a more global scale. The University Libraries Digital Collections provide online access to primary source materials including photographs, maps, and illuminated manuscripts; while the Oral History Center provides indexing and sometimes digital access to the oral history collections. Margaret M. Bridwell Art Library Website: https://library.louisville.edu/art/home Location: 102 Schneider Hall (Main Floor) Phone: 502-852-6741 Regular Semester Hours: Monday-Thursday 8:30-6 Friday 8:30-5 Closed Weekends For exceptions, holiday, and summer hours, check Art Library's hours page. Description: The Margaret M. Bridwell Art Library, located on the main floor of Schneider Hall, contains the University of Louisville's research collection in art, design, and architecture. The Art Library holds more than 90,000 volumes, subscribes to over 300 domestic and foreign journals and museum bulletins, has hundreds of videos and DVDs, provides access to the major indexes, and is actively building a strong collection of over 400 artists' books. The Art Library's collections cover the areas of painting, drawing, sculpture, printmaking, glass, photography, architectural history, interior architecture, graphic design, art education, pottery, fiber arts, and decorative arts. The collection is particularly strong in photography, modern and contemporary art, and textiles and fiber art. Kornhauser Health Sciences Library Website: https://library.louisville.edu/kornhauser/home Location: Second Floor, Library & Commons Building, Health Sciences Campus Phone: 502-852-5771 Kornhauser Library Services Hours Day Hours Monday - Thursday 7:30 am - 11:00 pm Friday 7:30 am - 6:00 pm Saturday 9:00 am - 6:00 pm Sunday 1:00 pm - 9:00 pm The newly renovated library features group study rooms outfitted with glass writing walls and flat screen monitors capable of connecting to student devices as well as ample semi-private study spaces featuring natural light, large work surfaces, and comfortable seating. Food and drink are welcome. Laptops and iPads are available for check out. The library provides hundreds of eBooks, online clinical information tools and thousands of online journals. Library staff is available in person and online to assist in research. As the largest health sciences library in the state, and the oldest west of the Alleghenies, Kornhauser is the primary source of biomedical information in Kentucky. It also houses rare books, a historical collection, and an archive which preserves the history of the health sciences in the Ohio Valley. Law Library Website: https://louisville.edu/law/library Location: Law School Phone: 502-852-6392 Law Library Regular Semester Hours Day Hours Monday - Thursday 8:00 am - 11:00 pm Friday 8:00 am - 6:00 pm Saturday 9:00 am - 6:00 pm Sunday 1:00 am - 11:00 pm For exceptions, holiday, and summer hours, check Law Library's hours page. The library of the Louis D. Brandeis School of Law contains approximately 427,000 volumes and microform volume equivalents, emphasizing primary and secondary resources in United States law. Special collections include the papers and correspondence of U.S. Supreme Court Justices John Marshall Harlan and Louis D. Brandeis. The library is a hardcopy depository for U.S. Supreme Court records and briefs. Dwight Anderson Memorial Music Library Website: https://library.louisville.edu/music/home Location: School of Music Room 160 Phone: 502-852-5659 Music Library Regular Semester Hours Day Hours Monday - Thursday 8:00 am - 7:00 pm Friday 8:00 am - 5:00 pm Saturday Noon - 5:00 pm Sunday Closed For exceptions, holiday, and summer hours, check Music Library's hours page. The Dwight Anderson Memorial Music Library is the largest academic music library in the state. The circulating collection, containing more than 150,000 volumes, includes more than 50,000 music scores, 35,000 books, and 20,000 sound recordings and videos. Special collections include the Jean Thomas Collection, the Isidore Philipp Archive, an early American sheet music collection, and the Ricasoli Collection of music manuscripts. The library also serves as a repository for materials related to the Grawemeyer Award for Music Composition. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer University of Louisville Policy for Hosting Events with Alcohol for Recognized Student Organizations and Councils https://louisville.edu/dos/students/studentorgnizations/alcohol-policy Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer UofL Print and Mail Services, powered by Canon - See Mail Services Information Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer University Police Belknap Campus 2126 S. Floyd St. 502-852-6111 Hours: MTWThFSSu 24 hours Web: https://www.louisville.edu/police The welfare of both people and property are the primary concerns of the University of Louisville Police Department (ULPD) and the Department of Public Safety. ULPD functions as a law enforcement agency within the University and seeks to educate the campus community regarding personal security and crime prevention, offering educational programs and safety materials. The “Card Cruiser” initiative is a transportation service provided from dusk until dawn by ULPD utilizing their security and police officers. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Department of Theatre Arts/University Theatre Studio Arts/HPES Building Main Office: 502-852-7682 Web: https://louisville.edu/theatrearts/ The Theatre Arts Department has two different venue spaces on campus. The Thrust Theatre located at 2314 South Floyd St. Built in 1992 and seating 164 patrons, the Thrust theatre is named after the thrust stage at its center. The space offers a variety of staging options and encourages interaction with the audience. The Playhouse Theatre Located at 1911 South Third St. Built in 1874 This proscenium theatre with a 24-lineset single purchase counterweight system facility has a 308 person seating capacity. The ornate proscenium with vaulted truss wood supports and the stained-glass windows surrounding the house creates a magical environment in which to see and perform theatre. The Department of Theatre Arts Box Office is located in the Studio Arts Building, right in front of the Thrust Theatre. It is open Monday to Friday from 10:00 AM to 4:00 PM and one hour prior to curtain time during the UofL academic year. Mainstage show times are scheduled for 7:30 pm for evening performances and 2:00 pm on Sunday matinees. Studio Series show times vary, check the studio page for more information. Check the UofL events calendar for changes and updates to the show schedules. Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Weapons Policy https://louisville.edu/policies/policies-and-procedures/index_policies Return To Top Of Page -- Disclaimer Women's Center Belknap Campus Diversity & Equity Centers 120 E. Brandeis Avenue 502-852-8976 Hours: MTWRF 9 AM - 5 PM E-mail: womenctr@louisville.edu Website: https://louisville.edu/womenscenter The mission of the Women’s Center is to offer support and resources to empower women with the goal of promoting an inclusive and equitable campus community and to develop engaged and compassionate leaders. Our vision is that the Women’s Center will be a safe and inclusive place of connectedness, empowerment and support for our growing multidimensional society. The Center offers: Leadership opportunities and support through our students groups: Women 4 Women Student Board (W4W), American Association of University Women (AAUW) at UofL, Empowering Ladies Together (ELT) and Student Parent’s Association (SPA) Participation and involvement through our programs: Global Leadership Program Trips, College Women’s Leadership Conference, Elect Her, Human Trafficking Awareness Conference, International Women’s Day, Self-Defense Workshop, Cards against Catcalling, $tart $mart Salary Negotiation Workshop, Clothing-Exchange Project, Campus Talk, Equal Pay Day, Student Veteran Support Group events, Women’s Equality Day, Equal Pay Day & more! Student women veteran program support and information Global leadership and cultural trips ~ Peru, Morocco, Spain, India & more… Sponsorships to national conferences Mentoring and information on student resources Tampon Task Force’s Emergency menstrual hygiene products Lactation/Wellness Spaces Students interested in becoming involved may contact us at womenctr@louisville.edu. Return To Top Of Page Disclaimer The information presented in the Student Handbook is correct to the best of the knowledge of the Dean of Students Office at the time of last editing and is presented in this format solely as a convenience to the student. It is the responsibility of the student to contact the individual office or department that hosts each policy or information piece to ensure that the policy or information is still current. A Department of STUDENT AFFAIRS Dean of Students Office Student Activities Center, Suite W301 2100 South Floyd Street University of Louisville Louisville, Kentucky 40292 Office Hours M-F 9:00am to 5:00 pm Phone tel (502) 852-5787 fax (502) 852-1429 Email dos@louisville.edu Social Media Twitter Flickr Facebook YouTube © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville