Skip to Content louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone louisville.edu My Accounts Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Search All Sites This Site Search Query Go Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Donate Campuses Belknap HSC Online Student Financial Aid Office Navigation Home Financial Aid: Start to Finish Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Financial Aid: Start to FinishFinancial Aid: Start to Finish Dropdown Toggle Step 1: File the FAFSA Step 2: Complete My Financial Aid File Step 3: Report Other Aid Step 4: Award Notification Step 5: Compare Award Letters Step 6: Attending Less Than Full-Time Step 7: My Bill Step 8: Aid Disbursement Step 9: Maintain Eligibility Step 10: Renew My FAFSA Loans Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment LoansLoans Dropdown Toggle Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized Loans Direct Parent PLUS Direct Graduate/Professional PLUS Loans Alternative Loan Federal Direct Loan Exit Counseling Consolidation Loan Loan Repayment Grants Work Study Scholarships and Other Resources Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments Scholarships and Other ResourcesScholarships and Other Resources Dropdown Toggle Scholarships Managed by the Student Financial Aid Office (SFAO) Information for Incoming Freshmen Information for Incoming Transfer and Non-Traditional Adult Students Information for Current Students Guide for Scholarship Organizations Guide for UofL Departments State Aid KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change State AidState Aid Dropdown Toggle KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change Tuition Waivers Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Tuition WaiversTuition Waivers Dropdown Toggle Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs Tuition Waiver Application Form (adobe pdf) Tuition Waiver for Foster and Adopted Children Tuition Waiver for Supervising and Resource Teachers Tuition Waiver for Police Officers and Firefighters Verification Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf VerificationVerification Dropdown Toggle Verification Start-To-Finish Verification FAQs IRS Data Retrieval Tool IRS Tax Return Transcript IRS Wage and Income Transcript IRS Verification of Non-Filing Requesting IRS Documents by Mail VERF23_Module.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Satisfactory Academic ProgressSatisfactory Academic Progress Dropdown Toggle Policy Appeal Process Satisfactory Academic Progress FAQ Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal Additional Information for Deferred SAP Appeal (PDF) SAP Appeal Form AStudentGuidetoSAP.pdf Satisfactory Academic Progress Plan MTF 2020.pdf Summer Financial Aid Competency Based Education—Healthcare Leadership Flex Option Program Consumer Information Net Price Calculator ED Net Price Calculator Net Price CalculatorNet Price Calculator Dropdown Toggle ED Net Price Calculator Other Information Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Other InformationOther Information Dropdown Toggle Newsletters Forms General FAQ Staff Directory Financial Aid ULink Tutorials Special Student Populations Summer Financial Aid Q&A Request for Professional Judgement Review Form Part-Time Aid Adjustment Form Financial Aid Document Upload Financial Wellness Contact Us Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Contact UsContact Us Dropdown Toggle Office Hours and Directions Student/Parent Feedback Email Email Us Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund (HEERF) Reporting State Aid State Aid KEES Scholarship On-Track to Graduate, Renewal Policy Change College Access Program (CAP) Grant The College Access Program (CAP) is a state funded gift assistance grant awarded to undergraduate students who attend eligible public and private colleges and universities, proprietary schools, and technical colleges. Applicants must be a Kentucky resident, demonstrate financial need, and attend an eligible college at least part-time and in a program at least two years in length. More information regarding the criteria and award amounts is available on KHEAA's CAP Grant webpage. Early Childhood Development Scholarship The Early Childhood Development Scholarship provides a seamless system to upgrade the professional development of child-care workers and trainers. The state legislature and the Governor created the Early Childhood Development Scholarship as part of the KIDS NOW early childhood initiative. The scholarship provides financial assistance, to the extent of available funds, in the form of non-repayable tuition scholarships for Kentucky students who are pursuing one of the following: Child Development Associate Credential Associate degree in early childhood education Bachelor's degree in interdisciplinary early childhood education or a related program that is approved by the Early Childhood Development Authority Kentucky Early Childhood Development Director's Certificate The scholarship amount is the tuition actually charged by the institution, not to exceed $1,800 per award year. Funds are either credited to the student's account or, if the student has paid the tuition, disbursed to the student at the beginning of each school term by the institution. For more information, including eligibility requirements and application procedures, please visit KHEAA's website. Kentucky Educational Excellence Scholarship "The 1998 General Assembly provided Kentucky high school students a great opportunity to make their education pay with the Kentucky Educational Excellence Scholarship (KEES)! KEES is administered by the Kentucky Higher Education Assistance Authority (KHEAA). Students who try to get the most from high school by studying hard and making good grades (2.5 GPA or higher) can earn scholarships for college or technical school. The better students do in high school, the more they will earn toward college scholarships. And students who complete their college studies have a better opportunity to achieve their career goals and improve their standard of living. Education really does pay!" (KHEAA). You must be enrolled at least half-time to qualify for the funds. More information is available on KHEAA's KEES webpage. If you have been awarded KEES, you must be enrolled at least half-time to qualify for the funds. Your scholarship is adjusted to the number of hours you are enrolled if you attend less than full-time (12 hours). Your cumulative GPA is reported to the state agency KHEAA at the end of each spring term to determine eligibility for the subsequent fall and spring. Cumlative GPA is calculated using only coursework that is completed at U of L. University policy states that only transfer credit hours from previous institutions attended are accepted, not GPA. KEES On Track To Graduate Policy Kentucky Coal County College Completion Scholarship The Kentucky Coal County College Completion Scholarship provides financial assistance for residents of Kentucky's coal‐producing counties to complete a first bachelor's degree. KCCCCS funds may be awarded at an institution that is not located in a coal‐producing county only if an eligible student is pursuing an approved bachelor's degree program in a field of study that is not offered at any institution located in a coal‐producing county. Recipients must meet the following requirements: Be a U.S. citizen Be a permanent resident of a Kentucky coal‐producing county. Have earned at least sixty (60) credit hours toward a bachelor's degree. Be enrolled at least half‐time in a bachelor's degree program. Be in good academic standing. Have no past due financial obligations to KHEAA. For more information, including additional eligibility requirements, please visit KHEAAs website. KHEAA Teacher Scholarship The Teacher Scholarship Program provides financial aid to Kentucky students pursuing initial teacher certification at participating Kentucky colleges. Recipients must meet the following requirements: Be a U.S. citizen Be a resident of a Kentucky Be admitted into a teacher education program at a participating school Be enrolled full-time unless enrolled for the final term of a teacher certification program and less than full-time enrollment is required to complete the program. Demonstrate Financial Need Maintain SAP For more information, including additional eligibility requirements, please visit KHEAAs website. Vocational Rehabilitation If you have a disability, you may be eligible for state aid toward the cost of your education. “The Kentucky Department of Vocational Rehabilitation assists Kentuckians with disabilities to achieve suitable employment and independence.” You may review information online at Vocational Rehabilitation. If you are receiving Vocational Rehab benefits you need to submit this information to our office at Report Other Aid Resources. Work Ready Kentucky Scholarship The Work Ready Kentucky Scholarship (WRKS) helps qualified Kentuckians who have not yet earned an associate's degree afford to complete an approved program that leads to an industry-recognized certificate. Effective for the 2021-2022 academic year, the University of Louisville's Human Resources Leadership Certificate Program has been certified as an approved program. Students must be pursuing the certificate exclusively and meet all application and eligibility requirements as outlined by the Kentucky Higher Education Assistance Authority (KHEAA). KHEAA's 2021-2022 WRKS application cycle begins in May and ends in June. Interested students must go to KHEAA.com, sign in (or create) their MyKHEAA account, and navigate to the online scholarship link in MyKHEAA. For more information, including eligibility requirements and application procedures, please visit KHEAA's website. How may we assist you? Email Service A dedicated student and communication service account is monitored by a team equipped to provide assistance to students. Email Financial Aid Service at: finaid@louisville.edu Call Center A dedicated call center is available to assist with all phone inquiries. Call Student Financial Aid at: (502) 852-5511 © University of Louisville Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone Contact Privacy Statement Apply Undergraduate Transfer Graduate Dentistry Law Medicine MBA International Online Learning Campuses Belknap HSC Online Jobs Donate Emergency Login Email ULink PeopleSoft HR PeopleSoft Campus Solutions PeopleSoft Financials Blackboard Business Ops CardSmart CardBox Cards Career Connection Plone © University of Louisville