Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Lifelong & Professional Education myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Us Select to follow link Contact Us Staff Select to follow link Administration Aerospace Select to follow link About Aero Select to follow link Aero Instructors Aero Staff Aero Certificates Aero Contact Aero Online Courses Select to follow link Course List Aero Online Learning Aero Registration Kansas City Short Course Select to follow link 2021 Cancellation Info Agenda Courses Instructors International Travelers Venue, Lodging & Transportation On-site Courses Orlando Short Course Select to follow link Agenda Courses Instructors International Travelers Venue, Lodging & Transportation Public Short Courses San Diego Short Course Select to follow link Courses Instructors International Travelers Venue, Lodging & Transportation Seattle Short Course Select to follow link 2021 Cancellation Info Agenda Conference agenda Course Listings For International Travelers Instructors Location & Venue Kansas Fire & Rescue Training Select to follow link About Select to follow link Location Staff Certification Contract Instructor Program Traffic Incident Management Program Training Commission Select to follow link Annual Reports FSTC Announcements, Agenda, Minutes Training Programs Select to follow link Fire Instructor Fire Officer Firefighter Seminars & Conferences - Kansas Fire & Rescue Training Special Operations Leadership Select to follow link Coaching Customized Training Instructors Workshops Osher Select to follow link About Alumni Discounts BusinessFriends Contact Corporate Giving FAQs Friends Gift Cards How to Register Individual Giving Instructors Partners Policies Request a Catalog Scholarship Transportation Safety Conference Select to follow link Agenda Exhibitor Information Registration Academics Admission Research People Alumni & Friends Resources Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Lifelong & Professional Education Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Courses Services Conferences Event Management About Request Information Home Osher Home Osher Lifelong Learning Institute See available Osher courses Come for the courses. Stay for the people. To register for online courses and events, click here. KU’s Osher Lifelong Learning Institute offers noncredit enrichment courses and events in accessible and innovative learning environments throughout northeastern Kansas and Greater Kansas City, and engage virtually with individuals from across the nation. Although our program focuses on individuals 50 and "better", learners of all ages and backgrounds are welcome. No homework. No tests. No pressure. It’s learning just for the joy of it. In-person courses are back! Come join us. We have missed seeing all of you and we’re excited to be back in the classroom. This summer we have 33 in-person courses being held in Lawrence, Eudora, Overland Park, Prairie Village, Topeka and Clay County, Mo. Our summer semester runs from June 6 through August 11. During that time, we will host 46 courses/events covering a wide array of topics! Courses will be offered in various formats, including in-person, hybrid and online. If you sign up for a hybrid course, you can either attend in person or join us online. You will just need to specify your choice upon registration. Course times vary from 90 minutes to two hours taught in three-week sessions; however, some courses are a one-time only offering so please look at the descriptions for details. Special event times are based on the specific offering so be sure to carefully review the event descriptions for details. We’re exited to announce our new referral program. If you know a lifelong learner who understands the value of intellectual engagement and social connection, encourage them to enroll in their first three-week Osher course for an introductory price of $15. Once they enroll, you will receive 50% off one Osher course (does not include special events). The person must be new to Osher or have not taken classes since June 1, 2019. All discounts must be used by October 31, 2022. To refer a friend reach out to linda.k@ku.edu. As you begin your summer vacation planning, be sure to take Osher along with you. Our online archive of pre-recorded courses affords you the opportunity to learn on-the-go. While you enjoy the pleasures of travel and leisure time, enrich your life by engaging your mind. For a limited time, we have several three-week courses available for $35! Take advantage of this summer special. Access our catalog here (PDF). Register for courses and events here. Browse Courses and Events Summer 2022 Catalog (PDF) Summer 2022 Catalog (PDF) Available courses and events Available courses and events Register How to register Register now online Alumni discounts Browse Courses & Events All Courses Special Events Request a catalog Become an Osher Supporter Individual gifts Corporate sponsorships About Us About KU Osher Instructors Contact us FAQ Resources & Partners Alumni associations Osher partners Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to attend University of Kansas sponsored events. If you require reasonable accommodation in order to participate in an event, please email lpe@ku.edu or call 913-897-8530 at least three weeks before the first day of the event. Some events may require notice earlier than three weeks and require you to contact a specific individual; if so, that information is provided in the event-specific information. Edwards Campus - Regents Center 125 12600 Quivira Rd. Overland Park, KS 66213 lpe@ku.edu 913-897-8530 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Browse all courses Services available Request information About us Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.