Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Lifelong & Professional Education myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Us Select to follow link Contact Us Staff Select to follow link Administration Aerospace Select to follow link About Aero Select to follow link Aero Instructors Aero Staff Aero Certificates Aero Contact Aero Online Courses Select to follow link Course List Aero Online Learning Aero Registration Kansas City Short Course Select to follow link 2021 Cancellation Info Agenda Courses Instructors International Travelers Venue, Lodging & Transportation On-site Courses Orlando Short Course Select to follow link Agenda Courses Instructors International Travelers Venue, Lodging & Transportation Public Short Courses San Diego Short Course Select to follow link Courses Instructors International Travelers Venue, Lodging & Transportation Seattle Short Course Select to follow link 2021 Cancellation Info Agenda Conference agenda Course Listings For International Travelers Instructors Location & Venue Kansas Fire & Rescue Training Select to follow link About Select to follow link Location Staff Certification Contract Instructor Program Traffic Incident Management Program Training Commission Select to follow link Annual Reports FSTC Announcements, Agenda, Minutes Training Programs Select to follow link Fire Instructor Fire Officer Firefighter Seminars & Conferences - Kansas Fire & Rescue Training Special Operations Leadership Select to follow link Coaching Customized Training Instructors Workshops Osher Select to follow link About Alumni Discounts BusinessFriends Contact Corporate Giving FAQs Friends Gift Cards How to Register Individual Giving Instructors Partners Policies Request a Catalog Scholarship Transportation Safety Conference Select to follow link Agenda Exhibitor Information Registration Academics Admission Research People Alumni & Friends Resources Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Lifelong & Professional Education Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Courses Services Conferences Event Management About Request Information Home Homepage - KU Fire Kansas Fire & Rescue Training Institute Letter From the Director The mission of Kansas Fire & Rescue Training Institute is to provide accessible, comprehensive training and credentialing for fire and emergency response personnel to promote health and safety in Kansas communities. On behalf of Kansas Fire & Rescue Training Institute (KFRTI) at the University of Kansas, welcome! It is my pleasure as the Director to welcome you. KFRTI was instituted in 1949 by Kansas legislation and housed on KU’s Lawrence campus. We are a “traveling instructional service,” bringing training to local jurisdictions across the State of Kansas so fire and emergency services personnel do not have to travel to receive training. KFRTI plays an important role in workforce and economic development through fire and emergency services training. Our funding is derived primarily from fire insurance premium levies. As a result, we provide training to Kansas fire and emergency services personnel at no cost. We are accredited by the International Fire Service Accreditation Congress (IFSAC) and The Pro Board, and we are the only entity in the State of Kansas with the authority to award 22 levels of National certification. We have great leadership at KU and a great training team at KFRTI. We strive to listen to the State’s fire service, respond to needs, and deliver excellence in training and customer service. In a word, we aim to be responsible “stewards” of the resources we have been entrusted with. Thank you for stopping by. I hope you find our website useful in finding the information you need. Should you have any questions or need additional information, please contact us at kufire@ku.edu or 866-804-8841. Sincerely, Kelly C. McCoy Director Kansas Fire & Rescue Training Institute University of Kansas Contact kufire@ku.edu 785-864-9924 St. Andrews Office Facility 1515 Saint Andrews Drive Lawrence , Kansas 66047-1619 Helpful links Course Catalog Course Catalog Training request form Training request form Facebook Page Facebook Page Training programs Firefighter Fire Officer Fire Instructor Special Operations Certification Certification Testing Schedule Criteria & Procedures Other Certification Documents Forms & Applications National Certification Guides National Certification Fee Schedule Contract instructor program Become an Instructor Traffic Incident Management Program See available traffic management courses About us About KFRTI Staff directory Location Fire Service Training Commission About FSTC Annual reports Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to attend University of Kansas sponsored events. If you require reasonable accommodation in order to participate in an event, please email lpe@ku.edu or call 913-897-8530 at least three weeks before the first day of the event. Some events may require notice earlier than three weeks and require you to contact a specific individual; if so, that information is provided in the event-specific information. Edwards Campus - Regents Center 125 12600 Quivira Rd. Overland Park, KS 66213 lpe@ku.edu 913-897-8530 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin Browse all courses Services available Request information About us Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.