Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Laboratory for Particle Physics and Cosmology (LPPC) HOME People Faculty Post-Doctoral Fellows Graduate Students Alumni Research Publications Theses Contact The Laboratory for Particle Physics and Cosmology (LPPC) at Harvard University conducts cutting edge research in experimental particle physics and observational cosmology, and provides education for graduate and undergraduate students. Palfrey House Faculty The LPPC is led by six faculty members from Harvard Physics and Astronomy Departments: Profs. Carlos Argüelles, Melissa Franklin, Roxanne Guenette, John Huth, Masahiro Morii, and Chris Stubbs. Astroparticle Physics Frontier The Astroparticle Physics Frontier Group is led by Carlos Argüelles, a neutrino physicist. His work explores properties of neutrinos using data from the IceCube Neutrino Observatory. IceCube data provides a unique window on the highest energy neutrinos ever observed. It is an ideal place to search for new Beyond Standard Model effects. Energy Frontier The Energy Frontier Group, led by Profs. Franklin, Huth, and Morii, studies the highest-energy proton-proton collisions with the ATLAS Experiment at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). We measure the properties of the Higgs boson, and searches for new physics beyond the Standard Model. Intensity Frontier The Intensity Frontier Group, led by Prof. Guenette, studies neutrino oscillation, searches for sterile neutrinos, and measures neutrino interaction with the MicroBooNE, SBND and DUNE experiments. Cosmic Frontier The Cosmic Frontier Group, led by Prof. Stubbs, is primarily working on the development of the Large Synoptic Survey Telescope (LSST) as a tool for studying the accelerating expansion of the Universe. Our group plays a central role in the calibration system, in optimizing implementation of the LSST survey strategy, and in commissioning and exploitation of the full LSST system. Working in partnership with DOE laboratories (SLAC and BNL), we are also engaged in the construction of the 3.5 Gpixel LSST camera system. LPPC Buildings LPPC is spread across buildings in the Northwest Campus. Our main office building is Palfrey House, originally built by John Palfrey. To find Palfrey on the Harvard campus, view this Harvard Map. Search Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement