Home Faculty Students Platforms Blackboard Ultra Blackboard Original Collaborate EAB Navigate Kaltura VoiceThread Respondus Zoom Panopto FAQs Contact Home / Frequently Asked Questions Frequently Asked Questions Frequently asked questions (and answers) about the platforms we support at the University of Miami. Click on each question to view more information. Why am I unable to log into Blackboard? Be sure to go to www.courses.miami.edu and use your University of Miami Single-Sign on credentials when logging into Blackboard. These credentials would be your Cane ID and password. Common reasons for being unable to log into Blackboard are the following: Reason 1: Internet Explorer Using a web browser such as Internet Explorer is THE MOST COMMON ISSUE for users not being able to access Blackboard. We recommend using either Google Chrome or Firefox when using Blackboard. Reason 2: Incorrect browser settings Clear your internet cache in your browser then restart your web browser. We recommend using either Google Chrome or Firefox to access Blackboard. Internet Explorer is not recommended for use with Blackboard. Access troubleshooting tips. Reason 3: No Blackboard Account Blackboard accounts are typically created automatically when you enroll in a course. If you are not in a course in CaneLink, please verify with the registrar. You need to have a valid Cane ID in order to be able to log into Blackboard. Reason 4: You are a new student Blackboard accounts are created automatically when you enroll in a class. Please be sure you are registered in classes and they appear in your CaneLink. Professor authorization for enrollment in classes is required if you are not officially enrolled. Search for University Faculty and Staff at this address: University of Miami people search link Reason 5: Incorrect Log-in Credentials Sometimes users may have more than one Cane ID. Please be sure to use the most up to date Cane ID and password. Please contacty yjr Learning Platforms Helpdesk if you do not have an account or the one you were given does not work. Cane ID information: CaneID account recovery page If you still cannot log into Blackboard please be sure to contact us. How do I turn on/off Blackboard notifications? In Blackboard you are able to choose which notifications you want to show for the Activity Stream, sent to you via email and push notifications on the mobile app. Note: Certain daily email notifications cannot be turned off. For example, Retention Center and Announcements email notifications. Option 1: Edit Global Notification Settings To change most Blackboard notifications settings follow the steps below: Click on your name in the top left of the Blackboard Homepage. In the bottom right of the page(Inside the red square of the picture) under “Global Notification Settings” you will see Stream, Email and Push notifications. Click on whichever one you would like to change. Uncheck or check which options you would like to turn off or on. Stream Notifications refer to the “Activity Stream,” while “Email Notifications” refer to daily or immediate notifications you may receive to your University email account, and “Push Notifications” refer to the notifications you receive if you have downloaded the Blackboard mobile apps. 4. Once finished checking the options you want, Click on the save button. Option 2: Move Emails to a Folder To help minimize the clutter in your inbox, make a rule in Outlook to move certain emails to a folder: Manage email messages by using rules (microsoft.com) Option 3: Turn off Retention Center Rules If you are not using the Retention Center for identifying at-risk students in a course you can turn off the rules in the retention center, and therefore the notifications. In your course, access Course Management area from the course menu. Click Evaluation, and then Retention Center. On the Retention Center page, click Customize. From the Customize page, select check boxes next to the default rules. Click the Actions button, then select Exclude from Risk Table. This will keep the rules but turn them off and any notifications connected to these rules. Why is my course not listed or available in the Courses page? In the Ultra Experience, instructors can control when students can access their courses. Instructors have the flexibility of experimenting with content before students view it in an active term. From the Courses page, instructors can set their courses to these states: Open: Instructors can open courses when they’re ready and available for students to participate. Private: Instructors can make courses private while they add or experiment with content, and then open them to students when they’re ready. Private courses appear with a gray instructor image and a diagonal line. Students see private courses in their course lists, but they can’t access them. Instructors can’t make a course private during an active term. If a student needs access to a course, you can customize course availability. Complete: Instructors can choose to set their courses to Complete when their courses have ended, but they may no longer make changes to them. Instructors can return their courses to Open or Private as they want. Students can access the content, but they can’t participate in the course any longer. Complete applies to the Ultra Course View only. Hide: Users can choose to hide courses from their course lists to organize their views. When are courses created for new semesters? (Faculty) Every semester, new courses are added to blackboard and we can now provide you with approximate dates for when it will happen: Fall Courses will be created around June 1st. Spring Courses will be created around November 15th. Summer Courses will be created around April 1st. Please keep in mind those dates may vary depending on events and changes at the University. Courses creation and enrollment are two different events. If you have not been assigned to a course in CaneLink, you will not see it in Blackboard. Contact your registrar person for more information. I’m the instructor for a course. Why can I not access my course? (Faculty) The Blackboard Help Desk can help you get access to your course if you are listed as the instructor in CaneLink. However, if you are not listed as the official instructor in CaneLink, we will require written or verbal authorization from the Chair, Dean or Program Director. Contact the Learning Platforms Help Desk for assistance. Can you enroll a student(s) for me? (Faculty) We will happily assist you to enroll students in your course. Please be sure to have the student’s C Number* or Empl ID. First and Last Name *This is the primary method of user identification in Blackboard. If you have multiple students to enroll please be sure to send Learning Platforms Help Desk of a list of the students including the information mentioned. Faculty can also enroll students themselves by following the instructions at the link below: Blackboard Original (Enroll Users) How do I copy my course content? (Faculty) If you are teaching the same course this semester that you have taught previously, you can copy that course into the current semester course. Note: You cannot copy courses from Original courses to Ultra courses. Blackboard Original Course: How to Copy Content from One Course Site to Another Course Site Blackboard Ultra Course: Copy Content from Other Courses If you need support in all course copying requests contact the Learning Platforms team (learningplatforms@miami.edu, 305-284-3949) with: Source of Course Materials: Course ID & Semester (e.g., ACC401-A 20158). Destination for Course Materials: Course ID & Semester (e.g., ACC401-A 20165, ACC501-A 20165). How can I upgrade to Blackboard Ultra Course View? (Faculty) If you are interested in upgrading to the Ultra Course View, we recommend you follow this guide below before contacting learningplatforms@miami.edu. Step 1: Review the differences between Blackboard Original and Ultra Course View. Attend a training session, or review the guide ‘Course views: What’s the difference?’ Step 2: Review what content will and will not convert in the Ultra Course View. Review the guides for content items that will convert and content items that will not convert. Step 3: Request the Ultra Course View version of your course. Contact the Learning Platforms team (learningplatforms@miami.edu, 305-284-3949). Note: If the course is in an active term, we will need to clone it to ensure the active/live version is not affected. Only private, closed courses can be converted to Ultra Course View. Step 4: Review the Ultra Course View Preview of your course. View this video for an overview or review the steps below. Login and access your course. In the pop up window, click on the button ‘Try the Ultra Course View.’ When the conversion is complete, access your course, and review updates to your course. Select the ‘view details’ link in the banner or the ‘Course Exceptions’ menu link to view how many items will not carry over. These are known as exceptions. In the panel, select a priority group to view the specifics so you can make the best decision for your course. You can either permanently convert the course to Ultra, or stay with the Original version. Select the course view you want in the bar the bottom of the window. You will not be able to revert your course if you upgrade to Ultra. Any changes you make will be saved if you upgrade to Ultra Course View. Step 5: Contact Learning Platforms to make your course available Contact the Learning Platforms team (learningplatforms@miami.edu, 305-284-3949), when you’re ready to make the course live, either for the current term or future terms. I have multiple sections, how can I merge or augment my courses? (Faculty) If you teach multiple sections of a course, or have both graduate and undergraduate students in the same course, if may be easier to merge or augment your course. See the information below. Course Merge: It may be easier to combine them into one Blackboard course site, rather than have a separate site for each section. With the merged site, you can post your course material once rather than posting it in each section’s site separately. Note: Courses should be merged before any student activity takes place in the course sites for the various sections. User records, such as discussion board posts, grades, and assessment attempts, will not show up in the new, merged, site. Course Augment: We can do a course “augment” rather than a course merge if you would like. An augment maintains all of your original course sites and adds one additional master site with all of the students from your various sections. With the course augment option you can use the master site to post course material in one location, and reserve the individual section course sites for assignments or tests specific to each course section. Contact the Learning Platforms team (learningplatforms@miami.edu, 305-284-3949) with the Course IDS for the courses you want to merge or augment. Video about course merges and augments (15 minutes) Can you add a TA to my course? (Faculty) We will happily assist you to in adding a TA to your course. Please be sure to have the TA’s C Number* or Empl ID. First and Last Name *This is the primary method of user identification in Blackboard. If you have multiple TA’s to enroll please be sure to send the Learning Platforms Helpdesk a list of the students including the information mentioned. Faculty can also enroll students, TA’s and other co-instructors directly in Blackboard Learn by following the instructions at the link below: Blackboard Original (Enroll Users) Where is my course? (Students) If your course is not present in the “My Courses ” module: Be sure that your course enrollment is reflected on CaneLink, if you are not enrolled in CaneLink, the course will not show up in Blackboard. If a course was switched or dropped, the change may not have taken effect in Blackboard If you see the course in CaneLink but not in Blackboard, then most likely it is that the information has not migrated yet from CaneLink to Blackboard. Please contact the Learning Platforms Help Desk for assistance with any issues related to data synchronization between CaneLink and Blackboard. Can you enroll me in a course? (Students) The Learning Platforms Help Desk can help you get access into a course if you are not officially enrolled in it. We just require written or verbal authorization from the professor of that course, academic adviser, or the program coordinator to enroll you. The professor also can do the enrollment himself/herself. If you don’t see your course, the first thing to do is to check “Course Availability”. If it does not show up as unavailable but you are officially enrolled in it, the Learning Platforms Help Desk will enroll you after verifying with CaneLink. My course disappeared from Blackboard. What happened? (Students) A reason for this to be happening, may be that the registrar made some changes to your enrollment either for financial reasons or just because they were changing things around. Blackboard does not remove students from courses but instead disable their access to them. To reinstate your access, we simply verify that CaneLink is up to date but if you are no longer officially enrolled in the course, we would need to receive permission from the professor or a program administrator. Contact the Learning Platforms Help Desk for assistance. How do I access an assignment, test, or syllabus? (Students) Your professor controls the availability of tests, assignments, and all other form of content in the course site. If the item you are looking for is not present in a module, “assignments”, or “course documents” then our best recommendation is to contact your professor to inquire about the item. Keep in mind every professors manage their course independently and one may do things different than another. Please be sure to use either Google Chrome or Firefox when using Blackboard. These browsers ensure that you have maximum functionality when using Blackboard. Other web browsers such as Internet Explorer may encounter problems and are not recommended for use with Blackboard. Why can’t I access my assignments, tests, or syllabus? (Students) This could be due to the following reasons: It is possible that your professor has not made the assignment, test, or syllabus available. The assignment, test, or syllabus has not been uploaded into Blackboard yet. The Date restrictions on the assignment or test may have expired making it unavailable. If you are using Internet Explorer or Safari, trying using Chrome or Firefox. Please contact your professor to let him/her know or advise them to contact the Learning Platforms Help Desk to assist them with making the assignment available to students. Please be sure to use either Google Chrome or Firefox when using Blackboard. These browsers ensure that you have maximum functionality. Other web browsers such as Internet Explorer may encounter problems and are not recommended for use with Blackboard. What is Respondus Lockdown Browser? (Students) Some instructors deploy tests in Blackboard and specify that students use the Respondus Lockdown Browser to complete the test. Students will have to download the browser which is available for both Windows and Macintosh computers. Once students have installed and then launched the Respondus Lockdown Browser, it will make them close all other applications on their computers before they can take their test. Students will have to submit the test before they can quit the browser. How do I download Respondus Lockdown Browser? (Students) The University of Miami has a specific version of the Lockdown browser that you can download using the link below. Please only use this link to download and install the software. http://www.respondus.com/lockdown/information.pl?ID=527636896 Where are my grades? (Students) If you have completed an assessment in your Blackboard course and you have not received a grade in the “My Grades” section this may be due to various factors: Your professor may have not enabled the ability to view grades for that assignment. The assignment may still be awaiting your professor’s review and is thus ungraded. The instructor may have hidden the “My grades” section from student view. The assessment may have been in a medium other than Blackboard and the grades may have not been entered into Blackboard yet. Our best recommendation is to contact your professor to inquire about your grades. Instructions on how to access “My Grades” section in Blackboard Ultra Search for Help Guides Search for: Request Support Available Monday – Friday, 9 a.m.- 9:30 p.m. Saturday and Sunday 10 a.m.- 2 p.m. 305-284-3949 learningplatforms@miami.edu Have questions about the platforms we support? Contact Us We’re Here To Help Learning Platforms Phone: (305) 284-3949 Email: learningplatforms@miami.edu Ungar Building Coral Gables, FL 33124-0320 Resources Login to Blackboard Ultra Access Sitemap Platforms Blackboard Ultra Blackboard Original Collaborate EAB Navigate Kaltura VoiceThread Respondus Zoom Panopto