arrow grid linear view icon Jump to main navigation Jump to main content The College of Arts Sciences Search Students Shared Course Initiative Languages Across the Curriculum Jumpstart Language Tutoring Conversation Hours Language Learning Resources Language Advocacy Learning Space Languages @ Cornell Lingua Mater World Languages Day Faculty Live Help Sessions Speaker Series Workshops Learning Communities Teaching Resources Funding & Research LRC Podcast Spaces Sales About Us Mission & Vision Location & Hours LRC Staff Partners Language Resource Center Lisa Sansoucy Language Scholar Award Prev Next News Student Translator-Interpreter Program breaks language barriers Cornell's Translator-Interpreter Program (TIP) trains bilingual and multilingual students to serve as translators and interpreters for the community in both emergency and non-emergency situations, supporting language equity and promoting social justice. LRC welcomes new team member Emma Britton The Language Resource Center welcomes the new Learning Initiatives Coordinator Emma Britton. View all news Upcoming Events View all events JUN 03Yiddish Conversation Hour We will provide an informal gathering "space" for any and all who wish to speak and hear Yiddish. The subject of conversation will depend on the interests of those who come. We look... JUN 06Yiddish Conversation Hour We will provide an informal gathering "space" for any and all who wish to speak and hear Yiddish. The subject of conversation will depend on the interests of those who come. We look... JUN 07Yiddish Conversation Hour We will provide an informal gathering "space" for any and all who wish to speak and hear Yiddish. The subject of conversation will depend on the interests of those who come. We look... Speaking of Language: The LRC Podcast The LRC Podcast features weekly discussions about language learning and pedagogy, highlighting the work we and our partners do on campus and in the community. A typical episode is hosted by a member of the LRC and introduces new initiatives, teaching ideas, or general trends in second language learning and teaching. Look for new episodes with every semester at Cornell University. Listen to the most recent episode here, and binge on our archived episodes. The College of Arts & Sciences Facebook Instagram Twitter G04 Stimson Hall, Ithaca, NY 14853-1101Email the LRC • (607) 255-7394 ©2022 Cornell University COVID-19 & Reactivation Planning If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.