Jump to navigation ISC Integrated Science Curriculum FAQ PU-A to Z PU Email Search form Search News Course Details FAQ Student Profiles Student Profile: Bhoomika Chowdhary '23 Student Profile: Chirag Kumar '23 Student Profile: Eli Costa '22 Student Profile: Donovan Cassidy-Nolan '21 Student Profile: Joseph Crapse '19 Student Profile: Carlota Corbella '19 Student Profile: Debopriyo Biswas '19 Student Profile: Helena Casademunt '19 Student Profile: Iris Rukshin '19 Student Profile: Karen Zhang '19 Student Profile: Samvida Sudheesh Venkatesh '19 Student Profile: Anastasia Repouliou '18 Student Profile: Ifunanya Nwogbaga '18 Student Profile: Julia Metzger '16 Student Profile: Ofer Kimchi '16 Student Profile: Korleki Akiti '15 Student Profile: Krysta Dummit '15 Student Profile: Christina Chang '12 Student Profile: Keisuke Ishihara '10 Student Profile: Michelle Ward '10 Student Profile: Juan Alvarez '09 Student Profile: Ashley Wolf '08 Student Profile: Julia Liu '08 Student Profile: Max Staller '08 Student Profile: Jarlath Byrne Rodgers '10 Archives Videos Contact Us What is Integrated Science? Integrated Science is a revolutionary introductory science curriculum developed at Princeton, intended for students considering a career in science. By breaking down traditional disciplinary barriers, a year-long course taken in the freshman year provides students with first-rate preparation for a major in any of the core scientific disciplines, and in such a way that helps retain the connections to the other disciplines. The curriculum is founded on the expectation that much of the most important science of the future, though based on the classical disciplines, will lie in areas that span two or more of them. “Any budding researcher needs a foundation in several fields to be able to work on the most important problems confronting scientists today…” — David Botstein, former director, Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics Who should consider taking it? The Integrated Science sequence is suitable for any undergraduate considering concentrating in the sciences or engineering at Princeton. The core training is perfect preparation for a very broad range of careers, both within and outside science. The curriculum is especially valuable for students interested in bridging the traditional barriers between the biological and the physical sciences. Integrated Science students get to talk science one-on-one with the best-of-the-best Princeton faculty: the current roster of active teachers includes members of the National Academy of Science and a Nobel laureate. "We want students to really understand scientific problems — they are not just learning to recite knowledge they've received." — William Bialek, the John Archibald Wheeler/Battelle Professor in Physics LATEST NEWS ISC at that 2021 Academic Expo Incoming students: We would love to see you at Princeton's Academic Expo! The two Zoom office hours for ISC will be: August 10, 2pm EST August 17, 11am EST Please see the registrar's Academic Expo website on Canvas to view... Read more Sofia Quinodoz, former QCB Certificate recipient, named 2020 Hannah Gray Fellow The Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI) has named Princeton postdoctoral researcher Sofia Quinodoz a 2020 Hannah Gray Fellow, bolstering her study into how the structures within cells contribute to disease.... Read more All News STUDENT SPOTLIGHT ISC labs were a great complement to the theoretical concepts learned in lectures. In lab, we learned how important scientific questions had been solved by using experiments and we learned to find our own questions in an independent lab assignment, which helped us understand scientific research. Read More. Helena Casademunt Class of 2019 ISC helped me see the general over-arching connection between all of the sciences and how that interplay is realized in the academic and occupational world. Read More. Iris Rukshin Class of 2019 The faculty are definitely what make this program so good. The small class size and large number of professors ensure that professors really get to know students, and vice-versa. Apart from the professors though, there are so many resources to support students - lab instructors, preceptors, teaching assistants, peer tutors and even your own classmates. Read More. Samvida Sudheesh Venkatesh Class of 2019 Through the course I was introduced to a new integrative way of thinking about science, and I developed a strong reliance on my own knowledge and research skills to approach and tackle problems. Read More. Anastasia Repouliou Class of 2018 ...overall, my experience, while stressful, was enlightening and definitely fruitful in developing my ability to problem solve, manage my time, and being in more control of how I respond to challenges I face in life. Read More. Ifunanya Nwogbaga Class of 2018 ISC's biggest impact was to show me how deeply interconnected all the scientific fields are. Seeing these connections made me more interested in pursuing a more interdisciplinary field of study, like biophysics or bioinformatics, especially since I still find it difficult to decide on just one topic to study. Read More. Karen Zhang Class of 2019 It was an amazing experience to be able to do cutting-edge research in a classroom setting, under the guidance of phenomenal experimentalists. Read More. Max Staller Class of 2008 I’ve learned invaluable lessons about how to approach problems in biology, and I definitely have a much better understanding of how the fields of physics, chemistry and biology interact. Read More. Jarlath Byrne Rodgers Class of 2010 I learned to focus on the quantitative principles behind physical models rather than on their details, and this allowed me to bridge the gap between mathematical, chemical, and biological systems. Read More. Juan Alvarez Class of 2009 Integrated science has given me an amazing network of faculty that I know I could go to with any question. Read More. Ashley Wolf Class of 2008 I think Integrated Science has the best professors and teaching assistants of any science course on campus. Read More. Julia Liu Class of 2008 Integrated Science has taught me how to think. It has helped me develop the questioning and probing mind of a scientific researcher, complete with a computational toolkit for analysis. Read More. Julia Metzger Class of 2016 Sharing the rush of success that comes with a breakthrough in the problem sets, or with understanding a challenging concept, with a close group of friends makes the Integrated Science program that much more than what it is on paper. Read More. Ofer Kimchi Class of 2016 The course has provided me so many opportunities to find where my passion is in science — from biology to physics to chemistry to computer science. I'm the interdisciplinary chemistry major I am thanks in large part to the opportunities Integrated Science provided me to try everything, and be qualified to try everything. Read More. Krysta Dummit Class of 2015 While it has definitely been my most challenging class at Princeton, it has also been the most rewarding. I learned to think about and approach scientific questions in a completely different manner. Read More. Korleki Akiti Class of 2015 Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University. Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics. FAQ Contact Issues?