Jump to navigation Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics Subsites ISC QCB Graduate QCB Certificate Search form Search Research Facilities Center for Quantitative Biology Glenn Laboratories For Aging Research Faculty Publications Faculty Research Labs People Directory Faculty Research Summary Faculty Associated Faculty Faculty Emeriti Lewis-Sigler Scholars Lewis-Sigler Fellows Graduate Students Staff Education QCB Graduate QCB Certificate Integrated Science Living in Princeton Opportunities Faculty Lewis-Sigler Fellows Postdoc Staff Lewis Sigler Scholars Program External Job Offerings News and Seminars Latest News & Seminars News Archive Seminars Calendar Diversity and Inclusion Community Values Statement About Donors Scientific Program Contact Us Visitor Information LSI History Shortcuts Cafe Catering Reservations Computing Support QCB Graduate WELCOME The Lewis-Sigler Institute at Princeton University was established with a mandate to create innovative research and teaching programs at the interface of modern biology and the more quantitative sciences. One impetus came from the need to deal with the explosion of information based on the genomic sequences of the human and all major experimental organisms. The other major impetus came from the realization that the most interesting and difficult problems in the quantitative disciplines, especially physics, chemistry and computer science, frequently lie in biological phenomena and applications. The Institute, housed in the Viñoly-designed Carl Icahn Laboratory, has a diverse, interdisciplinary intellectual environment. Resident faculty are also members of the following departments: Chemistry, Chemical and Biological Engineering, Computer Science, Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Molecular Biology, and Physics. One of the goals of the Lewis-Sigler Institute is to serve as a hub for Princeton-wide interdisciplinary research programs and to provide cutting edge research infrastructure for them. Current research includes experimental and computational development of genome-scale technologies, mathematical and physical modeling, and innovative molecular imaging. OUR FACULTY Britt Adamson Research: Cell Biology, Genetics, Functional Genomics, Technology Development badamson@princeton.edu Joshua Akey Research: Evolutionary genomics & adaptation jakey@princeton.edu Julien F. Ayroles Research: Evolutionary genomics, study of human adaptation, functional genomics. We study how genes interact with each other and their environment to shape variation between individuals. jayroles@princeton.edu William Bialek Research: Theoretical Biophysics; Neurobiology wbialek@princeton.edu Michelle Chan Research: Cell and Developmental Biology, Computational Biology, Genetics and Genomics mmchan@princeton.edu Thomas Gregor Research: Biophysics, Quantitative approaches to systems and developmental biology. tg2@princeton.edu Sarah D. Kocher Research: Evolutionary genomics & adaptation; the genetic and ecological factors that shape social behavior skocher@princeton.edu Mike Levine Research: How noncoding regions of the genome function to control the differential patterns of gene expression, both spatial and temporal, that define cell behavior. msl2@princeton.edu Coleen Murphy Research: Molecular mechanisms of aging ctmurphy@princeton.edu Yuri Pritykin Research: Computational biology, functional genomics, single-cell technologies, immunology pritykin@princeton.edu Joshua D. Rabinowitz Research: Quantitative and comprehensive understanding of metabolism. joshr@Princeton.edu Joshua Shaevitz Research: Experimental biophysics; cell shape and collective motility; animal behavior and neuroscience; musical instrument design shaevitz@princeton.edu Stanislav Y. Shvartsman Research: Applied and Computational Mathematics. Bioengineering. Transport Phenomena. stas@princeton.edu Mona Singh Research: Computational molecular biology, as well as its interface with machine learning and algorithms msingh@cs.princeton.edu John Storey Research: Statistical genetics and genomics, population genetics and genomics, applied statistics and data science jstorey@princeton.edu Olga G. Troyanskaya Research: Biomedical informatics, computational biology, systems biology and functional genomics; interfacing biomedical science with machine learning, algorithms, and systems development ogt@princeton.edu Eric F. Wieschaus Research: Cell Biology, Computation & Modeling, Development, Genetics efw@princeton.edu Ned S. Wingreen Research: Biological modeling; intracellular networks; molecular biophysics wingreen@princeton.edu Martin Wühr Research: Develop and employ quantitative proteomics methods to obtain a systems level understanding of cellular organization wuhr@princeton.edu LATEST NEWS Transcriptional coupling of distant regulatory genes in living embryos In studies that shed light on the coordination of genes during embryonic development, researchers have discovered that duplicated genes separated by long distances in fly chromosomes are controlled by shared regulatory... Read more Welcome to our incoming QCB graduate students! We are very excited to welcome our new graduate students this fall! QCB Incoming Class 2022 James Fife (Brown University) Pauline Hansen (Heidelberg University) Niles Huang (University of Oxford)... Read more QCB Graduate Students Awarded NSF GRFP QCB graduate students Isaac Breinyn and Tavis Reed have been selected as recipients of the 2022 NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP). Gabriel Dolsten, Sebastian... Read more Chenyi Fei, QCB grad student, recipient of the 2022 Harold M. Weintraub Graduate Student Award Chenyi Fei, graduate student in Quantitative and Computational Biology, is a recipient of the 2022 Harold M. Weintraub Graduate Student Award in recognition of outstanding achievement during Graduate... Read more All News UPCOMING SEMINARS No seminars are scheduled. Please check back later. You could also browse the Seminars archive Copyright 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University. Lewis-Sigler Institute for Integrative Genomics. Shortcuts FAQs Contact Issues?