Skip to main content School of Arts & Sciences College of Arts & Sciences Graduate Division College of Liberal and Professional Studies University of Pennsylvania Penn Life Sciences & Management Program Toggle navigation Main navigation About About the Program Community Program Leadership Roy Vagelos Advisory Board Student Leadership Resources for Current Students Admissions General Information Preparing for LSM Transfer LSM Alumni Profiles Current Student Profiles Curriculum Dual Degree LSM-Specific Courses Wharton Courses College Courses Sample Schedules Study Abroad Internships & Research Learning Through Experience Seeking Opportunities Internship FAQ's Past Internships Internship Funds Innovation & Entrepreneurship Vagelos Prizes Benz Prize LSM Most Valued Peer Award DR Lectures Synapse Contact Give Search Home Resolving Unmet Needs LSM is suited to students with interests in health care; biomedical, agricultural, and environmental research and development; public policy; and the financial and strategic management of life science organizations. State of the Art Research Penn houses literally hundreds of biological and biomedical laboratories on its campus. Students find that the experience of doing novel research deeply enriches the scientific education they receive in the classroom at Penn. Learn More An Innovative Degree Program The LSM program aims to foster creativity, entrepreneurialism, insight, and principled decision-making. Explore LSM at a Glance Student Profiles Graduate Profiles Capstone Video Managing Discovery in the Life Sciences - Philip A. Rea,‎ Mark V. Pauly,‎ Lawton R. Burns Follow this link to listen to an interview with the book's authors. Featured on Mastering Innovation, originally aired on Sirius XM Channel 111, Business Radio Powered by The Wharton School. Learn More Subscribe to our mailing list Give Resources Penn Admissions The Wharton School Contact Us Vagelos Program in Life Sciences & Management 425 S. University Ave, Levin 101 Philadelphia, PA 19104 215-746-3035 Dr. Lawton R. Burns Faculty Co-Director Dr. Philip A. Rea Faculty Co-Director Dr. Peter Stokes Director of Administration and Advising Ms. Siobhan Scott Program Coordinator © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Penn Weblogin