Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search Harvard Law School | HARVARD.EDU Labor and Worklife Program A Program of the Harvard Law School Donate Apply to HTUP Contact Search Home About Programs News Events People Publications Latest: Clean Slate Releases In-Depth Policy Options Read More Latest News Commerce Fraud Bureau to get new powers to investigate wage theft, other financial crimes May 26, 2022 BY: MAX NESTERAK Minnesota Reformer Labor leaders are calling a bill that passed the state House and Senate on Sunday the most significant piece of legislation for combating wage theft since it was made a felony in 2019. The bill (HF 3255), which is awaiting Gov. Tim Walz’s signature, gives the Commerce Fraud Bureau new powers to criminally investigate financial crimes along with more than $800,000 a year to hire five more investigators. By and large, though, treating labor abuses like wage theft as criminal matters is a relatively new phenomenon, says Terri Gerstein, a labor lawyer at Harvard Law School who has studied the rise of prosecutions of employers.... Read more about Commerce Fraud Bureau to get new powers to investigate wage theft, other financial crimes Amazon and Starbucks Aren’t Listening to Their Workers May 26, 2022 Sharon Block Bloomberg Law Unionization efforts at Amazon and Starbucks have been regarded with hostility by their CEOs, but Harvard Law School professor Sharon Block suggests the companies should view it differently. She writes that organizing efforts can be seen as a positive sign that workers value their companies enough to try to improve their working conditions rather than job hop, and suggests leaders work with employees to come up with a win-win solution. Can’t JetBlue please fly some must-mask planes?: An appeal to NYC’s hometown airline May 20, 2022 By Terri Gerstein Opinion New York Daily News I’m writing with a simple request: Please create some mask-required flight options for travelers who want them. Designating some flights on each route mask-required would be easy. There’d be no need to retrofit plane interiors. No passengers would have to don tactical flight suits or special scuba gear. It’d just be a return, for a few select flights, to the rules from two months ago, hardly a staggering burden. Plus, ample mask-optional choices should reduce the horrible... Read more about Can’t JetBlue please fly some must-mask planes?: An appeal to NYC’s hometown airline More News Recent Events 2022 May 16 Global Book Launch of Democratize Work 11:00am to 12:00pm 2022 Mar 16 2022 Harvard Trade Union Workshops Wed Mar 16 (All day) to Thu Mar 24 (All day) 2022 Mar 03 The Evolving Role of Universities in the American Innovation System Virtual Conference 1:15pm to 1:00pm 2021 Nov 08 Fighting for One Fair Wage: A Conversation 12:30pm to 1:30pm More Recent Events Recent Publications Inequality and the Labor Market The Case for Greater Competition Re-thinking procurement incentives for electric vehicles to achieve net-zero emissions Estimating the energy impact of electric, autonomous taxis: Evidence from a select market Worker Power and Voice in the Pandemic Response Clean Slate for Worker Power: Building a Just Economy and Democracy clean slate for EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Clean Slate for Worker Power: Building a Just Economy and Democracy How district attorneys and state attorneys general are fighting workplace abuses Global sweatshops: the history and future of North-South solidarity campaigns in Bangladesh and beyondMore Publications 2021 HTUP Workshop Follow-up Elissa McBride, AFSCME 2021 HTUP Workshop Follow-up Elissa McBride - AFSCME 2021 HTUP Workshop Follow-up Larry Brown, NUPGE 2021 HTUP Workshop Follow-up Larry Brown, NUPGE Giving Donate Blog A blog founded by Benjamin Sachs (LWP Faculty Co-Director) and Jack Goldsmith (Harvard Law School), devoted to workers, unions, and their politics. Go to Blog Recent Tweets from OnLaborBlog OnLaborBlog Federal laws regulating union disclosures are supposed to facilitate accuracy and transparency. But recent political battles have made the reporting regime overly complex and inconsistent: t.co/kGK2I2MT1i 4 hours 54 min ago. OnLaborBlog Today’s News & Commentary — May 30, 2022 t.co/ewN5mxSNJT 2 days 2 hours ago. OnLaborBlog Employee-wellness programs promise to improve workers' mental and emotional well-being. But they also raise serious discrimination, privacy, and efficacy concerns. t.co/Ndo89aCE68 2 days 4 hours ago. Follow on Twitter Share on: Recent LWP Tweets LWPHarvard Thrilled to have had powerhouse @onefairwage @SaruJayaraman discuss her latest book, One Fair Wage: Ending Subminimum Pay in America, shedding light on the oppressive history of tipping practices and the present realities of tipped workers and their collective power. t.co/2gODipqxmZ 6 months 3 weeks ago. LWPHarvard It benefits an entire society when ALL their workers are happy and protected. @TerriGerstein reminds us that decades ago @afa_cwa fought to ban smoking on airplanes and now we all breathe easier because of that battle. t.co/1d48hwAiWP 8 months 3 weeks ago. UFWupdates Richard Trumka’s solidarity with the farm worker movement never wavered. From the mines to the mills, from the factories to the fields, working people are mourning a champion. t.co/SedItt8ifG 9 months 4 weeks ago. LWPHarvard REGISTER for Wed 7/28 discussion w/ @EconomicPolicy @NCLC4consumers @TowardsJustice on how consumer laws can be used to protect workers and address corporate abuse in the labor market. 3-4:15pm ET t.co/okV07gGySy 10 months 2 weeks ago. SCOTUSblog In clash between private property rights and pro-union interests, the Supreme Court invalidates a California regulation that requires agricultural employers to allow union organizers onto their property to speak with workers. SCOTUS says the regulation violates the 5th Amendment. 11 months 1 week ago. Follow LWP on twitter Follow LWP on : https://www.facebook.com/lwpharvard/ https://twitter.com/LWPHarvard Credits for homepage collage LWP CSS Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement