Skip to main content Princeton Mobile Message Center MessagesLocation and Persona My Persona: Princeton Mobile Tap to switch personaSettings Settings Find People & Places Search Navigation section Home Map TigerTransit People Dining Courses Library Salto Hot SpotNavigation section News Events Athletics Emergency Contacts COVID-19: Coronavirus Information Map TigerTransit Library Courses Dining Events Covid Kit People News Princeton women's Varsity Four rowers win national title World Series of Birding title goes to a Princeton student team Princeton marks more than 50 years of kosher dining on campus After Princeton graduation, ROTC students are commissioned as U.S. Army and Marine Corps officers Margaret and Robert Hariri name new dormitory to support undergraduate expansion Previous Next Athletics Men's Basketball to Play in 2022 London Basketball Classic The Princeton University men's basketball team will be one of four teams playing in the 2022 London Basketball Classic, as announced by Inspirus Sports Wednesday morning. Olivia Pugh To Play In IWLCA Senior All-Star Game Olivia Pugh's college women's lacrosse career is not quite over yet. Princeton's Varsity Four Wins NCAA Championship; Team Places Third Overall The No. 5 Princeton Tigers had an all-time day during day three of the NCAA Rowing Championships. The Varsity Four of Roopa Venkatraman, Hailey Mead, Catherine Garrett, Natasha Neitzell and Lauren Johnson won the national title (7:05.23) over Ohio State (7:06.46), Texas (7:07.18), Stanford (7:08.54), Washington (7:10.78) and Brown (7:19.22). Men's Lacrosse Sees NCAA Tournament Run End In National Semifinals EAST HARTFORD – A special 2022 season for Princeton Men's Lacrosse came to an end in the national semifinals as No. 1 Maryland's hot start was too much for the Tigers to overcome in a 13-8 loss. The Tigers finish the 2022 campaign with an 11-5 record, while Maryland improves to 17-0. Men’s Track & Field Checks in at No. 16 in USTFCCCA Rankings The Princeton University men's track & field team moved up a spot to No. 16 in the in the United States Track & Field and Cross Country Coaches Association (USTFCCCA) NCAA Division I Men's Outdoor Track & Field Rating Index, as announced by the organization Tuesday afternoon. Previous Next Top of page © 2019 The Trustees of Princeton University • About this app Powered by Modo