UW-Madison Crest University of Wisconsin–Madison Madison Lakes Logo Madison, WI Open Menu Close Menu Fall Hit the Trails Harvest Tour Winter Let it Snow Stay Cozy Badger Sports Spring City in Bloom Eat Fresh Onstage Summer Festivals Nightlife Hoof It Photo credit: Richard Hurd lakes-logo-v2 Madison, WisconsinWI Main Menu Fall Winter Spring Summer The changing seasons in many ways define life in Wisconsin, and in Madison we find creative ways to get the most out of each one. Built on an isthmus and surrounded by lakes, Madison blends the city and campus, green spaces and urban areas, to create a place unlike anywhere else. Take a trip around the sun with us and explore for yourself. Photo credit: Steve Mayeshiba Fall The sky changes, leaves turn, sweaters come out, and the city is glowing with deep autumn colors. Look for reflections of light on water and golden sunsets. Grab a hot chocolate, and take a walk along the lake or a morning hike through the Arboretum. Be one of 80,000 Badger fans at Camp Randall Stadium. This is a time of change and excitement. Hit the Trails Harvest Tour Photo credit: Kirby Wright Winter Wisconsin winters are epic: cold and enormously beautiful. Badgers don’t hibernate—we transform a snow-blanketed campus into a hotbed of activity. Bundle up and get ready to hit the ski trails, team up on the ice, or walk out on frozen Lake Mendota and enjoy the serenity that winter affords. Let it Snow Stay Cozy Badger Sports Photo credit: Nate Moll Spring There’s no shortage of drama in Wisconsin in spring. Warmer temps tease open daffodil and lilac buds. The iconic sunburst chairs make a triumphant return to the Memorial Union Terrace, while the city’s residents emerge to enjoy State Street’s many sidewalk cafés and restaurants. City in Bloom Onstage Eat Fresh Photo credit: © Wisconsin Union Summer The summer months are fleeting, so we relish every moment: cannonballs into Lake Mendota, hikes around Devil’s Lake, leisurely afternoons at the Terrace. Meanwhile, fairs and festivals abound, as long sunny days turn to nights before you realize it, complete with photo-worthy sunsets. Festivals Nightlife Hoof It Madison Lakes Logo Fall Hit the Trails Harvest Tour Winter Let it Snow Stay Cozy Badger Sports Spring City in Bloom Eat Fresh Onstage Summer Festivals Nightlife Hoof It University logo that links to main university website Quick Links Campus Map Campus and Visitor Relations Jobs at UW Envelope Contact Us Feedback, questions or accessibility issues: web@umark.wisc.edu • About this Site • © 2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System Back to top Back-to-top Arrow