Skip to main content Join MAE Newsletter Climate and Inclusion Intranet IT Support Princeton University is actively monitoring the situation around coronavirus (Covid-19) and the evolving guidance from government and health authorities, in keeping with our commitment to ensure the health and safety of all members of the University community. Click here for the latest University guidance for students, faculty and staff. Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering Search Search Main menu Undergraduate Toggle Undergraduate Dropdown Programs Join MAE Handbook Educational Objectives Organizations Careers and Resources Contacts MAE Class Day 2021 Graduate Toggle Graduate Dropdown Programs Admissions Courses FPO Checklist Contacts Professional Development Alumni Careers Recent and Upcoming Dissertations Research Areas & Labs Toggle Research Areas & Labs Dropdown Laboratories Research Areas People Toggle People Dropdown Administrative Faculty Graduate Students Researchers Spotlights Technical About MAE Toggle About MAE Dropdown Administrative Offices Advisory Council Annual Report Contacts History Careers Events News Join MAE Newsletter Climate and Inclusion Intranet IT Support Our Research More on our research News Yue Qiao Receives Best Student Paper Award at AES Convention MAE and virtual reality MAE Students Receive Graduate School Teaching Award Congratulations to Prof. Howard A. Stone for Being Elected to the Royal Society View all News Crowd Control: Can We Herd Cells like Sheepdogs Herd Sheep? The Femtosecond Laser Electronic Excitation Tagging Meet Our Faculty Hero Meet Our Faculty Faculty Graduate Programs The majority of outstanding technical problems in today’s science and engineering require a multi-disciplinary approach, and our department has a strong tradition in defining and pursuing new research areas at the intersection of engineering, physics, chemistry, biological sciences, and applied mathematics. Learn More about Graduate Programs Undergraduate Programs The Department offers two accredited degree programs, one in Mechanical Engineering and the other in Aerospace Engineering. Students who wish to pursue both programs simultaneously can do so with careful planning of course selections. Either program provides a foundation for a wide range of career objectives and may be combined with certificate programs. Learn More about Undergraduate Programs Meghan Booker: Developing Memory Frameworks for Robots How much memory does a robot need to complete a task? Are there fundamental tradeoffs between memory and task performance? These are the questions Meghan Booker, a fourth-year PhD student in Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering (MAE) at Princeton, is trying to understand. Read Full Spotlight Meghan Booker: Developing Memory Frameworks for Robots Polina Zhilkina: Speaking the Universal Language of Science Polina Zhilkina studies eight different languages. But science, she says, is the most universal tongue of all. No matter where you are, the laws of physics, chemistry, or thermodynamics are always the same and can be universally understood. Read Full Spotlight Polina Zhilkina: Speaking the Universal Language of Science The Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Princeton, NJ 08544 Footer Menu Contact MAE Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University.