MENU People Features Hub Solutions Arts Sports Letters Alumni May 30, 2022 ‘Star Wars’ to the stars NASA is going back to the moon and planning to land humans on Mars, with Howard Hu, ’91, ’94, leading the way. The heart of health care Through public health crisis, nursing leader Pam Cipriano, ’81, has delivered doses of hope and advocacy. The 2022 Alumna Summa Laude Dignata award recognizes her service. May 29, 2022 Stolen beauty The story of the shocking theft, destruction and replacement of George Tsutakawa’s sculptural gates at the Washington Park Arboretum. Earth and space Gary Lai, the lead architect of Blue Origin’s New Shepard program, heads to the heavens. For the next generation After 26 years leading Densho, a nonprofit organization committed to preserving and sharing Japanese American history, executive director Tom Ikeda, ’76, ’79, ’83, is retiring May 25, 2022 Champion of opportunities Michael Verchot receives the 2022 UWAA Distinguished Service Award for his work on behalf of the UW Consulting and Business Development Center. Commemorating Ken Sirotnik Ken Sirotnik's legacy remains strong nearly two decades after his death. The UWAA honors him with the 2022 Distinguished Teaching Legacy Award. Husky Walk of Fame Jean Smart joins the growing list of UW legends whose names are engraved on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. Community champion For his dedication to the UW and Chicano/a/Latino/a communities, Erasmo Gamboa receives the 2022 Retiree Excellence in Community Service Award. May 18, 2022 Heartfelt effort After the tragic and sudden loss of his friend, Adam Lang found a way to honor Daniel Phelps's memory. May 17, 2022 One who dared A gifted actor and director—and one of "The Five Who Dared"—Harvy Blanks made history. May 16, 2022 UW’s new regent, Leonard Forsman, ’87, looks ahead Leonard Forsman, '87, is the UW's new regent. He tells Viewpoint his goals and priorities for his six-year term. May 3, 2022 Honoring Frank Irigon Frank Irigon, noted social and civil rights activist, will be honored with the 2022 Charles E. Odegaard award. Supporting diversity Meet the 2022 recipients of the Multicultural Alumni Partnership awards. March 11, 2022 Remembering Desmond Tutu Twenty years ago, the human rights leader delivered a message of hope to Seattle. Win a trip to Browntown George Tramountanas, '93, turned personal tragedy to big-screen comedy in his new feature film about a unique incentive for weight loss. March 5, 2022 ‘You Deserve the World’ Ally Ang is a 2021 graduate of the UW Master of Fine Arts program in creative writing, with a focus on poetry. For the Love of iPhone Software developer Tom Love’s innovative programming language became the backbone of every Mac, iPhone and iPad. The voice of Yakima Valley While working on her doctorate, Monica De La Torre, ’16, studied the Yakima Valley's Radio Cadena. She shares their stories in “Feminista Frequencies." March 4, 2022 Autism in the spotlight Actor Mickey Rowe's book chronicles his journey from a legally blind self-described outcast to the hero of his own story.   Caring for custodians Evalynn Fae Taganna Romano, ’10, ’21, leads an effort recognize an often overlooked group in the pandemic: campus custodians. Sweet success Carlton Olson, ’61, overcame Type 1 diabetes to play 4 years of Husky baseball. A real character Versatility has been Jean Smart’s strength since her UW days. Now, the Emmy-winning actor’s star is shining brighter than ever. Native leader joins Regents As a UW regent, Leonard Forsman plans to help represent Indigenous people. March 1, 2022 Preserving crafts in India Judy Frater, '87, put her UW museology degree to good use by seeking out and empowering local Indian artisans. February 14, 2022 The power of representation An El Paso native's journey to UW leads to a key position as the White House Deputy Cabinet Secretary — and a piece of political power. January 31, 2022 From puck steals to book deals Player-turned-agent Ryan Minkoff’s second book, “Nora’s Hockey Dream,” pays homage to his sister and all the girls who love hockey. December 4, 2021 UW in the cards ‘Down the Ave,’ a card game developed by business students, is full of UW and Seattle references. Closing the distance For a teacher in a time of COVID-19, the challenge is to bring the world to students. Junior Coffey, 1942-2021 Junior Coffey, who passed away recently, overcame traumatic experiences to become a Husky football star and racehorse trainer. Imogen exposed Imogen Cunningham was an innovative and influential fine art photographer. A retrospective features nearly 200 of her works. The midcentury view A new book finally shines a spotlight on Paul Hayden Kirk, ’37, who set the standard for Northwest modernist architecture. Legal relief Longtime prisoners who received life and long sentences as minors benefit from a UW program that sends students and lawyers to help. Hall of Famers Twelve former student-athletes from five sports receive the highest honor in UW Athletics. Portraits of justice Alfredo Arreguin has painted the official portraits for three justices on the Washington State Supreme Court. At 86, the master of Mexican-American art remains a source of colorful ideas and vivid canvases. November 19, 2021 Nursing leader’s legacy One of Seattle’s few Black nurses in the 1940s, Rachel Suggs Pitts helped create a network of support for her colleagues and nursing students. Changing the law Enoka Herat works with law enforcement leaders and the families of people who have died from police violence to change practices in Washington. Rising above hate A Japanese American UW grad turned businessman, Harry Kawabe was a humanitarian who built economies in two U.S. cities and dedicated his life to building community. From pain to poetry Poet Jane Wong isn’t afraid to lay her emotions bare as she explores ways beyond the written page to reach audiences. October 30, 2021 A life in service Dave Stone, ’68, is recognized for his lifetime of service—military, public and volunteer—with the Distinguished Alumni Veteran Award. October 21, 2021 Personalizing care Margaret Towolawi, ’10, adopts a new model for health care that promotes closer doctor-patient relationships. September 11, 2021 Art and exploration “Fly Your Own Thing,” a celebration of the late Alden Mason, ’42, ’47, is on exhibit at the Bellevue Arts Museum. September 8, 2021 Visual music Through the interplay of light with her creations, artist Barbara Earl Thomas creates ‘ordinary magic.’ Her extraordinary work explores childhood, race and religion. September 4, 2021 Meals & memories Two decades after Tom Stockley and his wife, Peggy, perished in a plane crash, their daughters curate a new book of his eating pleasures. Anderson honored James G. Anderson, '66, will receive the 2021 Dreyfus Prize in the Chemical Sciences. Jewell on faculty Former Interior Secretary Sally Jewell, ’78, was appointed to the Edward V. Fritzky Endowed Chair in Leadership for the 2021-2022 school year. AAPI stories A website highlights Asian American and Pacific Islander voices from our community. A life in design Nin Truong brings creativity and sustainability to the world of public art, skateboarding and apparel. August 31, 2021 Global vision Stan Barer, recipient of the 2021 Gates Volunteer Service Award, used his UW Law degree to help make the world a better place. A name that stuck Cassandra Amesley, ’77, ’81, made ‘Red Square’ catch on and etched her name in Husky history. Higher purpose After his NFL career, Mark Pattison kept pursuing athletic feats. He recently climbed Mount Everest to complete the Seven Summits challenge, raising more than $56,000 for charity. 9.11.01: I was there Two alumni who escaped the horror of Ground Zero bravely share their stories of trauma and hope. August 12, 2021 Seizing the moment Whether we’re together in person or using technology to bridge the distance, the UW Alumni Association is about making connections. June 10, 2021 A dog-gone great idea Bill Perkins' nonprofit organization employs people in prisons to train service dogs for veterans. A Coast Guard first Linda Fagan, '00, was nominated to become the highest-ranking woman in Coast Guard history. Forward momentum Erin O'Connell, '96, is back at the UW as the Deputy Athletics Director and the Senior Woman Administrator. Less can be more Compared to changes that add, those that subtract are harder to think of. The removal of a bridge in the Bay Area illustrates how sometimes, less is more. June 7, 2021 Curiosity and clay From the start, Seattle artist George Rodriguez explored identity, culture and community in his work. Promoting preservation Elizabeth Bell was honored for more than 42 years of “tireless effort in preserving the city and promoting understanding of the heritage” of Antigua, Guatemala. Calling the shots For Golf Channel analyst Paige Mackenzie, ’06, the only thing more thrilling than scoring a hole-in-one is calling the golf play-by-play at the Olympic Games. June 4, 2021 Can’t hold him back From radical youth to senior statesman, Larry Gossett is an activist for us all. The 2021 Alumnus Summa Laude Dignatus award recognizes his lifetime of service. Passion for the UW Colleen Fukui-Sketchley’s commitment to serving the UW Alumni Association, the University of Washington and higher education has been nothing short of amazing. June 3, 2021 ‘A child’s eye view’ By the time of her death at the age of 104, Beverly Cleary’s books had sold more than 85 million copies. June 1, 2021 The death dodger Taking risks was second nature for Albert Scott Crossfield. That’s how he became the first man to fly at twice the speed of sound and laid the groundwork to go into space. Speeding up the science Curtis and Elizabeth Anderson lost their daughter to an uncommon form of cancer. Their philanthropy aims to expand research and bring hope to patients and their families. May 22, 2021 Golden grads This UWAA recognition honors alumni who have demonstrated sustained, long-term and meaningful engagement with the UW. May 10, 2021 Remembering Bryan Monroe Brian Monroe, ’87, headed a Pulitzer-prize winning newspaper team and being the first print journalist to interview the country’s first Black president-elect. April 26, 2021 Bouncing back for the next physical challenge A near-fatal paragliding accident in Central Washington didn’t keep Masako Hirata down for long. April 17, 2021 Frontline photographer Photographer David Ryder, ’06, ’11, was recently recognized as UW Bothell's Alumni of the Year recipient. March 11, 2021 Rural nurses wanted A program funded by Premera Blue Cross is placing nursing students in rural practices throughout Washington. Helen Chu honored University of Washington Medicine professor Dr. Helen Chu, ’12, “Washingtonian of the Year” by the Washington State Leadership Board. Native knowledge Native art is prominent in the life of Miranda Belarde-Lewis, an assistant professor in the University of Washington Information School. March 9, 2021 Culture crew Their commitment to equity brought three UW alumni to 4Culture—and it has remained the agency’s North Star in its pandemic response. Standing tall He went from the UW to professional basketball and back. But it’s in the special education classroom that Anthony Washington, ’16, ’19, is making a lasting difference. March 4, 2021 Stories of home The UW Alumni Association recently invited a group of Native storytellers for a virtual event to discuss the meaning of sense of place. Private-eye inspiration Instead, Thoft uses the P.I. skills she learned to write her award-winning detective novels featuring hard-nosed private eye Fina Ludlow. Dick’s dynasty Jim Spady never expected to preside over the family business of burgers and fries. March 3, 2021 Soul of Seattle With the city changing rapidly, Ron Chew set out to write about one of its beloved communities. It’s a story only he could tell. March 2, 2021 Never done learning Ed Jones has since completed 11 UWPCE certificate programs, more than anyone else. January 16, 2021 Catch up with Jake Locker Husky football fans remember Jake Locker for his determined play during some down years for the program. Hockey heights Now an agent, Ryan Minkoff, ’15, became the first student-athlete from the Husky club hockey team to make it to the professional hockey ranks. January 11, 2021 Books and conversation To date, more than 1,600 readers have joined the UW Alumni Book Club, representing alumni from every college and school across all three campuses. December 16, 2020 Nobel laureate’s UW ties Harvey J. Alter, a UW resident in internal medicine from 1964-65, has received a Nobel Prize for his contributions to the discovery of the hepatitis C virus. Emerging from pain Britt East’s book “A Gay Man’s Guide to Life” provides realistic ways for gay men to deal with homophobia and live a good life. Whitman revisited In “Unsettled Ground: The Whitman Massacre and Its Shifting Legacy in The American West,” historian Cassandra Tate, ’86, ’88, ’95, revisits a conflict that left 13 settlers dead. December 9, 2020 Healing words Norman B. Rice’s timing couldn’t have been better for his new book, “Gaining Public Trust: A Profile of Civic Engagement.” Holistic view The first Filipino American to graduate from UW medical school, Fernando Vega helped open the path to alternative medicine in the U.S. December 7, 2020 After prison Ten stories that show how the UW can help people take advantage of second chances. Taking control In describing her mindset, Kelly Olson quotes a favorite author: “You have to own your story if you want to change the ending.” Moving forward Prison gave Kurt Myers a perspective he uses in his professional life. Positive mindset Powered by positive thinking, Theron Taylor went to the UW to earn a degree in psychology. November 21, 2020 Be a bird’s buddy More than 4 billion birds are moving through North America during fall migration. An expert shares some ways to aid in their journey. October 13, 2020 Sweet science Kennewick native Danielle Reed forages for genetic answers after her research finds that processed food is much too sweet for the average human tastebud. September 30, 2020 Campus ambassador Our sketchbook profiles Alice Lee, manager of the UW Visitors Center. September 21, 2020 A twist of fate Ayan Hassan’s life was changed by the Making Connections program—and then unexpectedly saved by one of the program’s founders. September 16, 2020 Fresh fish finder With many restaurants closed, the Fish Map offers a way for commercial fishing companies to sell their products directly to consumers. September 11, 2020 No longer lost Stephen Johnson, '99, scoured archives, the internet and a villa in Italy to discover the fate of a missing World War II pilot. September 8, 2020 Course correction The UW has responded with leadership during the COVID-19 crisis. Now we must make the same commitment to addressing systemic racism and injustice. August 23, 2020 Under Astra’s spell A Latvian refugee from World War II, the colorful Astra Zarina had a vision to bring UW architecture students to Rome. Today, her students are making sure she is not forgotten. August 13, 2020 The historian of Seattle hip-hop Daudi Abe, author of an upcoming book on Northwest rap, tells us what makes the local scene so special. UW Alumni Association Instagram UW Alumni Association Facebook @UWalum Contact the magazine About Subscribe Update your info University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA