Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers People Columbia Engineering Get Involved Columbia Engineering Magazine | Fall 2019 Story & Press Release Engineered Structures And Properties Materials underpin modern society. They ensure water is potable, information flows freely, and new tools emerge for combating disease. They offer us a path to a sustainable future and the possibility of harnessing unprecedented computational power. Now, the field is on the verge of a transformative leap that could usher in a new age. More Peering Inside The Black Box Engineering the Future of Cultural Preservation In This Issue Sustainable Humanity Clearing the Air Healthy Humanity Training Bacteria to Target Cancer Secure Humanity Keeping Sensitive Data Private Connected Humanity Better Decision-Making Through Data Creative Humanity Decoding Creative Thinking Charging Ahead Ethics 2.0 Challenging Assumptions: Q&A With Yannis Tsividis AI With a Better IQ Also in This Issue Letter from Dean Mary C. Boyce Spot News Roundup Faculty News Letter from the Alumni Association Presidents Class Notes Program Notes In Memoriam Donor Spotlight Particle Robotics: Based on Statistical Mechanics of Loosely Coupled Components Runtime 1:59 This video provides an overview of the particle robotics concept, describing the capabilities and experimental results. Credit: Richa Batra, Shuguang Li, Jane Nisselson, Kyle Parsons/Columbia Engineering Particle Robotics: Based on Statistical Mechanics of Loosely Coupled Components Runtime 1:59 This video provides an overview of the particle robotics concept, describing the capabilities and experimental results. Credit: Richa Batra, Shuguang Li, Jane Nisselson, Kyle Parsons/Columbia Engineering Gravitational Instabilities in Binary Granular Materials Runtime 2:34 Defying the Laws of Physics? Columbia Engineers Demonstrate Bubbles of Sand. New study is first to show how two types of sand can behave like light and heavy liquids, shedding light on geological processes from mudslides to volcanos and potentially enabling new technologies from pharmaceutical production to carbon capture. Building at the Nanoscale | Part 01: 2D vs 3D Materials Runtime 2:49 Every day at Columbia we build nano devices by stacking atomically thin 2D materials into complex structures -- one atomic layer at a time. This new building method opens a whole new realm of possibilities from flexible electronics to implantable biomedical devices to spray on applications. In this video, Professor James Teherani explains the differences between 2D and 3D materials by comparing molecular models of two materials you’re familiar with: graphite (pencil lead) and diamond. Both of these materials are made entirely from carbon atoms. However, they look and behave differently because of their different molecular bonding configurations. Next, take a look at Part 2, where we go into the lab to show you how we manipulate 2D materials that are a few billionths of a meter thick and stack them into structures with new functionalities. Programmed Bacteria for Cancer Immunotherapy Runtime 3:53 The emerging field of synthetic biology—designing new biological components and systems—is revolutionizing medicine. Through the genetic programming of living cells, researchers are creating engineered systems that intelligently sense and respond to diverse environments, leading to more specific and effective solutions in comparison to current molecular-based therapeutics. Teaming up with the Columbia University Irving Medical Center (CUIMC), Columbia Engineering has addressed this challenge by engineering a strain of non-pathogenic bacteria that can colonize solid tumors in mice and safely deliver potent immunotherapies, acting as a Trojan Horse that treats tumors from within. The therapy led not only to complete tumor regression in a mouse model of lymphoma, but also significant control of distant, uninjected tumor lesions. Their findings are published in Nature Medicine. Other Issues Spring 2022 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Spring 2019 Fall 2018 Show More 500 W. 120th Steet #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Columbia Engineering Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Faculty Job Opportunities