MENU People Features Hub Solutions Arts Sports Letters Features May 30, 2022 The heart of health care Through public health crisis, nursing leader Pam Cipriano, ’81, has delivered doses of hope and advocacy. The 2022 Alumna Summa Laude Dignata award recognizes her service. May 29, 2022 Stolen beauty The story of the shocking theft, destruction and replacement of George Tsutakawa’s sculptural gates at the Washington Park Arboretum. Why we walk We were bipedal before we were human. But science still has much to explore about how we evolved—body and brain—to be walkers. May 4, 2022 Beloved communities College of Built Environments students help historically Black churches survive gentrification. March 5, 2022 For the Love of iPhone Software developer Tom Love’s innovative programming language became the backbone of every Mac, iPhone and iPad. The voice of Yakima Valley While working on her doctorate, Monica De La Torre, ’16, studied the Yakima Valley's Radio Cadena. She shares their stories in “Feminista Frequencies." March 4, 2022 A real character Versatility has been Jean Smart’s strength since her UW days. Now, the Emmy-winning actor’s star is shining brighter than ever. March 3, 2022 The Kelly ECC at 50 Once a student activist’s dream, the Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center celebrates five decades as a space for diversity and inclusion. December 4, 2021 The Inn crowd is back Raise a toast to the historic, quirky joint that has come back from a COVID-19 closure. Legal relief Longtime prisoners who received life and long sentences as minors benefit from a UW program that sends students and lawyers to help. License to innovate The Washington Research Foundation was founded 40 years ago to capture the value of inventions coming out of the UW. Fighting the infodemic Twisted facts, fake news and social media spoofs can turn society upside down. One UW team is working to help us through the infodemic. Hall of Famers Twelve former student-athletes from five sports receive the highest honor in UW Athletics. Portraits of justice Alfredo Arreguin has painted the official portraits for three justices on the Washington State Supreme Court. At 86, the master of Mexican-American art remains a source of colorful ideas and vivid canvases. November 19, 2021 Nursing leader’s legacy One of Seattle’s few Black nurses in the 1940s, Rachel Suggs Pitts helped create a network of support for her colleagues and nursing students. The rise of Gen Z The most diverse generation in American history, they are engaged, informed, and not content with the status quo. September 8, 2021 Visual music Through the interplay of light with her creations, artist Barbara Earl Thomas creates ‘ordinary magic.’ Her extraordinary work explores childhood, race and religion. September 4, 2021 Crisis state Washington has a shortage of mental-health workers and high demand for treatment. The UW is at the center of efforts to turn the tide. Welcome back In-person classes and a new U District await students returning to campus this fall. The Nisei story ‘Boys in the Boat’ author Daniel James Brown’s new book depicts the heroism of World War II-era Japanese Americans. Meals & memories Two decades after Tom Stockley and his wife, Peggy, perished in a plane crash, their daughters curate a new book of his eating pleasures. A life in design Nin Truong brings creativity and sustainability to the world of public art, skateboarding and apparel. August 31, 2021 Higher purpose After his NFL career, Mark Pattison kept pursuing athletic feats. He recently climbed Mount Everest to complete the Seven Summits challenge, raising more than $56,000 for charity. 9.11.01: I was there Two alumni who escaped the horror of Ground Zero bravely share their stories of trauma and hope. July 22, 2021 A fresh lens on QTPOC life Through feature films, groundbreaking documentaries and shorts, a UW librarian creates a canon of meaningful representation in American cinema. June 21, 2021 Professors nonpareil One year into remote learning, these seven distinguished scholars kept class as fresh and relevant as ever. Find a seat and meet your 2021 Distinguished Teachers of the Year. June 10, 2021 Pandemic parallels Long lines for vaccines are nothing new to Darrell Salk, whose father created the polio vaccine. June 4, 2021 Can’t hold him back From radical youth to senior statesman, Larry Gossett is an activist for us all. The 2021 Alumnus Summa Laude Dignatus award recognizes his lifetime of service. June 1, 2021 The death dodger Taking risks was second nature for Albert Scott Crossfield. That’s how he became the first man to fly at twice the speed of sound and laid the groundwork to go into space. May 10, 2021 Vaccine equity Nationwide, we’re falling short on distributing vaccines to the communities that need it most. Diversity takes work In the recent years, the UW has seen the highest racial and gender diversity among students in its history, “and yet we have fallen short on our faculty diversity efforts." March 13, 2021 Surveying the Native art of the Pacific Northwest Here's what it's like to be a student in the University of Washington's class about Indigenous art. March 11, 2021 Native knowledge Native art is prominent in the life of Miranda Belarde-Lewis, an assistant professor in the University of Washington Information School. March 4, 2021 Digital dynamo UW Libraries has undertaken a massive effort to expand access to digital resources and develop programs that teach students and faculty skills for research in a digital age. March 3, 2021 Soul of Seattle With the city changing rapidly, Ron Chew set out to write about one of its beloved communities. It’s a story only he could tell. Quantum leap UW scientists work toward a revolution in computing power, and consider the side effects it would cause. March 2, 2021 The Kraken are coming! Thanks in large part to David Bonderman, ’63, the Seattle Kraken is scheduled to make its debut as an NHL expansion team this coming fall. December 9, 2020 Holistic view The first Filipino American to graduate from UW medical school, Fernando Vega helped open the path to alternative medicine in the U.S. December 7, 2020 After prison Ten stories that show how the UW can help people take advantage of second chances. November 29, 2020 For many UW retirees, service never stops Retiring from the UW doesn’t end the story for faculty and staff. They are driven to serve their communities on a local or global scale. Bill Gates Sr.’s legacy As a leader in public service and champion of the UW, Bill Gates Sr. leaves a legacy far beyond his legal contributions. October 27, 2020 Black Voices: Viewpoint Magazine Fall 2020 Sociology professor Alexes Harris guest edits a collection of essays from Black voices in the University of Washington community. Lifting our voices “We are at a moment for change and we need to apply and support constant pressure and expect certain outcomes,” writes sociology professor Alexes Harris, guest editor of Viewpoint Magazine.“ How can the UW engage? “Something I hear all the time is that those who are closest to the pain and to the solution are furthest from the power to make the change,” says De’Sean Quinn, a Tukwila City Councilmember. What the UW has gotten right “It’s important to take stock of what we’ve accomplished so we can remember that our collective activism, past and present, isn’t in vain,” says LaShawnDa Pittman, an assistant professor of American Ethnic Studies. Are you part of the solution? “We’re moving in the right direction,” says LeAnne Wiles, director of First-Year Programs in Undergraduate Academic Affairs. “Things we’re doing right now might have seemed radical when I first came to the UW in 2009.” Justice should be our North Star “We need an urgent shift in the climate and system stemmed in anti-racism, anti-colonialism, and any other form of discrimination,” says Claire Gwayi-Chore, a Ph.D. student in Global Health. September 11, 2020 Grand stand The first football game at the iconic stadium came on Nov. 27, 1920. For our health The UW is putting its combined brainpower into population health, improving lives around the world. August 23, 2020 Under Astra’s spell A Latvian refugee from World War II, the colorful Astra Zarina had a vision to bring UW architecture students to Rome. Today, her students are making sure she is not forgotten. July 7, 2020 Protein power Professor David Baker’s audacious approach to creating new proteins may offer new options for stopping disease—including COVID-19. June 11, 2020 Unearthed and retooled The unlikely story of two carved canoes, divided by decades, linked in tribal tradition. Screen gems Sheltering in place against the novel coronavirus prevented us from photographing our Teachers of the Year as we always do—in person. So we captured them the way students saw them during spring quarter. June 10, 2020 Meet the photographer: Jackie Russo A portrait photographer in Mexico City photographed eight UW teachers for our June 2020 issue. June 4, 2020 Smallpox slayer's wisdom William Foege, ’61, was instrumental in wiping smallpox off the face of the Earth. The lessons he learned in that fight offer wisdom as we face COVID-19. May 15, 2020 Front and center With compassion, innovation and empathy, public health leader Patty Hayes strives to make life better for all of us. May 12, 2020 Grad students' lifeline Students from underrepresented communities find funding, social networks and academic support through the Graduate Opportunities & Minority Achievement Program. April 2, 2020 Impact personified Alum and former UW regent Jim Ellis was driven to serve the public good. March 19, 2020 How UW’s startup culture nurtures a growing number of student businesses UW’s startup culture nurtures a growing number of students, proving that an idea, some energy and valuable mentoring can bring business success. March 10, 2020 After the ashes Scientists knew Mount St. Helens would come back to life after the 1980 eruption, but as a new book shows, its resilience still blew them away. March 5, 2020 Wonder of Warashina The Smithsonian honors Patti Warashina, ’62, ’64, whose humor and innovative perspectives on the human condition put a new face on ceramics. December 4, 2019 Seeing himself in the science Ecologist Christopher Schell believes that tapping into who he is as a person makes his research better. November 29, 2019 Serving up success The Foster School's Consulting and Business Development Center boosts entrepreneurs from underserved communities. November 24, 2019 Legacy of ‘No-No Boy’ Decades ago, he built a foundation for Asian American literature; now, a UW professor is still protecting an alumnus’s classic novel. September 2, 2019 Jordan Nicholson takes off How the self-proclaimed lover of life followed his passions to become an accomplished photographer, artist and man about town. When Dad ran for president In 1972 and 1976, Sen. Henry “Scoop” Jackson was a candidate for the highest office in the land. I was along for the ride. Arms to table Northwest ingredients meet Filipino-influenced cuisine at Archipelago, a Seattle restaurant that has earned rave reviews. August 25, 2019 The Burke, unwrapped In an exciting new building designed by renowned architect Tom Kundig, the Burke Museum's work all comes out into the open. June 2, 2019 Northwest dressed From timber territory to tech hub, the Northwest passion for fashion has flourished. Where it all began The 101-year-old ASUW Shell House was home to the famed “Boys in the Boat.” March 11, 2019 Down to the core While the UW may look robust, long-standing cuts in state funding are eroding the school’s ability to maintain buildings, raise salaries and retain faculty. March 1, 2019 Gaveling man House Speaker Frank Chopp has spent his life helping underserved members of the Evergreen State. Master of the tearjerker Tearjerkers and epic female-driven novels have earned Kristin Hannah, '83, an international following. Blake Nordstrom, 1960-2019 A longtime leader of a family company, he went out of his way to connect with customers, employees and community members. The identity solution PilotED, an elementary school in Indianapolis, believes identity and civic engagement could transform the educational landscape, especially for students of color. January 7, 2019 Natural connection Forest ecologist Nalini Nadkarni keeps nature in touch. November 30, 2018 The sci-fi future is here Science fiction has come alive in our modern world—from robots in our homes to the search for life across the universe. Paul Allen's legacy To the late Paul G. Allen, the University of Washington felt like home. 3 hearts, 1 full life An adventurous alum stricken with heart disease as a young man is thriving after undergoing two heart transplants. October 19, 2018 First-gens find their way Resilience, persistence and belonging help students survive the complexities of college. A serving of advocacy Taylor Hoang speaks up for small and immigrant-owned businesses. Helping hungry Huskies An on-campus pantry works to reduce hunger and end the stigma of food insecurity. Top doc Alumnus Lorne Murray, '96, credits his UW mentors for his success. September 11, 2018 The human rights fight From El Salvador to Spokane, the UW Center for Human Rights seeks justice. August 30, 2018 ‘Yes, I am a boy’ Nonconformist and social media star Kevin Ninh shares his story of self-discovery. The heart of Puerto Rico In the aftermath of Hurricane Maria, a team of UW engineers and scientists went to Puerto Rico to learn and to help. New biologies Nature is an interconnected web of life. A new Life Sciences building takes that to heart. August 29, 2018 Career puppeteer If these puppets could talk, they would describe Aurora Valentinetti as the UW's beloved puppeteer. June 4, 2018 Legends of the IMA Why did we keep playing softball even after graduating? Because we loved softball and the IMA league was much more fun than other leagues. And we really wanted those championship T-shirts. June 2, 2018 Mr. Smith’s journey With core values formed by his Chehalis upbringing, Orin Smith went on to become a business leader who knew how to treat people right. April 28, 2018 Heart, soul and ice cream For 85 years, Husky Deli has warmed hearts in West Seattle with scrumptious sandwiches, house-made ice cream and goodies from the world over. March 4, 2018 Keeper of the flame A founding member of UW's Black Student Union, Emile Pitre has spent 50 years building solutions from the inside out. March 3, 2018 Perfectly Claire Best-selling feminist author Claire Dederer, ’93, on growing up grunge, creating a literary canon for the Northwest, and bad men who create great art. OMA&D at 50: The people behind the movement Student activism in 1968 led the UW to create one of the nation’s first offices of minority affairs. Here’s their story. And their outlook for the future. January 9, 2018 The lunch guy Fueled by an appetite for social justice, Jeffrey Lew, ’06, set out to end the stigma of school lunch debt. December 28, 2017 Forging new links A new type of fire-resistant wood reduces atmospheric carbon and can be made of damaged trees. Could it revive depressed economies in Washington’s rural timber communities? December 7, 2017 The opioid boom The prevailing practice for treating addiction to painkillers led to the worst man-made epidemic in modern medical history. November 15, 2017 Students of nature The Doris Duke Charitable Foundation is changing the faces—and future—of conservation. November 8, 2017 The art of preservation The Conservation Center repairs up to 12,000 items each year. September 28, 2017 Dyslexia, defeated My alma mater helped my daughter become a reader. UW Alumni Association Instagram UW Alumni Association Facebook @UWalum Contact the magazine About Subscribe Update your info University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA