Skip to main content Search < Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni On Campus Books Issues About Contact Us Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni On Campus Books Science & Technology A Simple Way to Reframe Bad Memories Columbia researchers on how to rewire our most embarrassing, depressing, and guilt-inducing recollections. By David J. Craig | Spring/Summer 2022 Columbia Magazine / Pavlo S / Shutterstock We tend to think of our memories as fixed and unalterable, as if our brains were tape recorders faithfully archiving past experiences, but psychological studies have shown that our memories are, in fact, quite malleable. Each time we reflect upon a particular event, we may update it — a phenomenon that is widely known to cause problems for criminal investigators seeking reliable information from eyewitnesses and for therapists trying to uncover the roots of trauma. But what if we could exploit the mutability of memory for our own good, rewiring our most embarrassing, depressing, or guilt-inducing recollections so that they lose their emotional sting? A team of researchers led by Megan Speer, a postdoctoral research scientist in Columbia’s psychology department, recently demonstrated how easily this can be accomplished. In a series of experiments reported in the journal Nature Communications, Speer and her colleagues asked participants to recall distressing memories from their own lives and to consider how the events in question actually had silver linings — how a romantic breakup freed them to enjoy new experiences, or how the death of a loved one liberated that person from suffering. The participants were then asked to periodically reflect on the redeeming aspects of these events. By the end of the two-month study, the researchers found that the participants had managed to recast their memories in a more positive light, which meant that thinking about the episodes caused them less stress. Speer says that her research, in addition to identifying a simple strategy than anyone can use to manage painful thoughts, could have implications for treating depression, posttraumatic stress disorder, and other mental-health conditions. Read more from David J. Craig Top Stories Old Friends Columbia B-School’s New Home Is Open for Business Lets Talk About Sex on YouTube Second Acts: It’s Never Too Late to Go Back to School Brain Games: How the Mind Performs Under Pressure All categories > Read more from David J. Craig More From Science & Technology Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife How climate change is taking its toll on animal behavior The Magic of Building with Mushrooms Fungus-based construction materials could be useful in remote settings or at the scenes of natural disasters My Cuttlefish Teacher Columbia research shows how the intelligent cephalopods become masters of disguise Stay Connected. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name E-mail Comment I consent to receive e-mail communications from Columbia Magazine. General Data Protection Regulation Columbia University Privacy Notice Latest Issue Past Issues Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni Newsmakers On Campus Books About the Magazine Staff Advertising Awards Contact Us columbia.edu Alumni Association Update Your Information Give to Columbia Magazine ©2022 Columbia University