MENU People Features Hub Solutions Arts Sports Letters Research May 29, 2022 Why we walk We were bipedal before we were human. But science still has much to explore about how we evolved—body and brain—to be walkers. Finishing the sequence UW researchers are contributors to the groundbreaking work of the Human Genome Project. March 5, 2022 Dinosaur dreams Zeke Augustine, ’23, has sifted through soil for microscopic fossils and helped dig up a Triceratops. The Burke Museum has been at the heart of it all. Power of innovation A new UW facility will bring together scientists, engineers and students to develop clean-energy solutions for a healthy planet and a sustainable future. Tech can be tricky A pilot project will establish a public-interest technology clinic to serve local community organizations and governments. December 4, 2021 Fossil finds A site in Montana yields a triceratops skull and other rare dinosaur fossils. Unleashing dogs’ power The UW’s Conservation Canines calls on dogs’ noses to find answers to pressing environmental questions. License to innovate The Washington Research Foundation was founded 40 years ago to capture the value of inventions coming out of the UW. Fighting the infodemic Twisted facts, fake news and social media spoofs can turn society upside down. One UW team is working to help us through the infodemic. September 11, 2021 Where stars are born At the UW's Friday Harbor Laboratories, scientists give sunflower sea stars a chance to shine. At a loss? UW experts explain how to distinguish between memory loss and simple forgetfulness. August 31, 2021 Land of fire and smoke Ernesto Alvarado will be the first to tell you: You can’t suppress all of a region’s fires when they’re as much a part of the ecology as its flora and fauna. June 10, 2021 Green goblins The invasive European green crab is spreading, and Washington fisheries are in danger. June 7, 2021 New law of physics UW researchers have discovered a new law of fluid mechanics, a branch of physics, that will affect the future of aircraft design. May 11, 2021 Evictions continue Washington landlords are finding ways around the pandemic-related moratoriums on evictions, and this is disproportionately affecting people of color. March 4, 2021 Floating robots The UW will soon be deploying a fleet of floating robots in oceans around the world. September 16, 2020 Mapping landslide risk UW engineers are developing a new mapping system to quantify landslide risk in the prone areas of Seattle September 11, 2020 For our health The UW is putting its combined brainpower into population health, improving lives around the world. June 24, 2020 IHME in the spotlight As the pandemic expanded across the country, IHME projections became a resource for local, regional and national leaders as they responded. June 10, 2020 The ultimate puzzle Doctoral student Emily Rabe loves puzzles. Now she's working on one with high stakes—one that could have a significant impact on our planet’s health. June 4, 2020 Her work spans oceans Jacqueline Padilla-Gamiño studies issues such as global environmental change, ocean acidification and microplastics in the ocean. March 30, 2020 Eye on baby's breath A UW team has used hardware similar to an Amazon Echo to create a smart speaker that detects the breathing motions of an infant’s chest. March 12, 2020 Fishing for arsenic Researchers study the movement of water and heavy metals’ impact on aquatic life in lakes near Tacoma. March 10, 2020 Under the influence What effect does a parent's marijuana use have on kids? We asked a UW researcher. For an informed public The UW's Center for an Informed Public is a response to the rise in disinformation and erosion of trust in our most basic societal institutions. December 1, 2019 A tern for the worse Feeding the wrong food to chicks could spell disaster for several species of terns. November 24, 2019 Calling all dogs A UW-led study is recruiting 10,000 canines and their companions for a study of dogs’ health as they age. September 10, 2019 Protecting life in Cambodia Climate change threatens fish runs and the livelihood and food resources for millions of Cambodians. September 2, 2019 Warming sea A die-off points to a larger-scale, longer-term problem with the food supply caused by warming seas. June 3, 2019 Energy’s new wave Converting ocean waves into electricity poses challenges—and promise. November 30, 2018 Tech for mental health UW Medicine researchers are exploring how a smartphone might help someone manage a severe mental illness such as schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. August 26, 2018 Sharks spin a tale Great white sharks dive deep into the Atlantic’s clockwise-spinning warm-water whirlpools. June 4, 2018 Rethinking drugs Ingrid Walker wants to change the way media and government frame our perceptions about illicit drugs, and the people who use them. No easy tusk Marine biologist Kristin Laidre is living her dream of studying narwhals, the mysterious 2,000-pound mammals that are notoriously tricky to find. December 15, 2017 The puzzle of aging Building on decades of research and outreach, UW experts are piecing together new ways to live longer and better. June 16, 2017 Animal instinct Biology professor Sam Wasser fights to save endangered species. May 25, 2017 Micro-damaging Overt racism has long been linked to health disparities, but what about subtle slights? March 1, 2017 Tending to the world Scientists, doctors and data collectors join forces for population health. February 28, 2017 Birds’ brains An over-the-counter health supplement can be linked linked to aggression in songbirds, suggesting health implications for people who may be using the DHEA hormone. Note-worthy STEM researchers at the UW have arranged a dataset to understand classical music. September 1, 2016 Deep data In April 2015, the Axial Seamount, an active underwater volcano about 300 miles off the coast of Oregon, erupted. For the first time ever, scientists, engineers and students from the UW and around the world could watch it in real time thanks to an elaborate array of sensors they installed a year earlier. June 1, 2016 Nordic Noir Scandinavian Studies Professor Andy Nestingen shares his research into the genre and how it contrasts with American Noir’s heroes and villains. Urban evolution The UW's Urban Ecology Research Lab studies how species change in response to cities. March 1, 2016 Test driven Here, we present the tales of two clinical trials of technology that one day could alleviate suffering and improve lives for the hundreds of thousands of people suffering from severe heart problems and kidney failure. December 1, 2015 'Scarface' found A team of scientists has identified a new species of “pre-mammal” based on fossils unearthed in Zambia’s Luangwa Basin in 2009. Its discoverers include Christian Sidor, UW professor of biology and curator of vertebrate paleontology at the Burke Museum. Sweet gratitude Gratitude is universally considered a social good—the warm feeling that results from a kindness received. But it can have a dark side: It can impel us to eat more sweets, according to new research by Ann Schlosser, professor of marketing at the Foster School of Business. Swim record UW fisheries expert puts a number on Bristol Bay's annual sockeye salmon run. September 1, 2015 High volume Recordings by current and former UW researchers in fjords show that melting at glacier edges in the narrow rock-edged canyons are some of the noisiest places in the sea. Cling like a fish Scooting around in the shallow, coastal waters of Puget Sound is one of the world’s best suction cups. It’s called the Northern clingfish, and its small, finger-sized body uses suction forces to hold up to 150 times its own body weight. Space explorers Fifty years is no time at all for a universe that dates back 13.8 billion. But for those who study the sky, the past five decades have changed everything. June 1, 2015 Blood stancher An injectable polymer could keep soldiers and trauma patients from bleeding to death. Mindfulness Whether it’s coping with college or taming an addiction, mindfulness has real medical and practical benefits, and it’s something UW researchers have been exploring for decades. A startling find Since she was a student in pharmacy school, Shelly Gray has felt a strong connection to the situation many elderly patients find themselves in: “I was struck by how many different medications older adults are taking, as well as their struggle with trying to keep those medications straight,” she recalls. Hazy on the law More than two years after Washington legalized marijuana, parents and teens may be hazy on the specifics of the law. Leaves tell a story Miniscule, fossilized pieces of plants could tell a detailed story of what the Earth looked like 50 million years ago. March 1, 2015 Brain discovery A couple of years ago a scientist looking at dozens of MRI scans of human brains noticed something surprising: a large fiber pathway that seemed to be part of the network of connections that process visual information. Mirage Earths Planets orbiting close to low-mass stars—the most common stars in the universe—are prime targets in the search for extraterrestrial life. But new research led by an astronomy graduate student at the UW indicates some such planets may have long since lost their chance at hosting life. Baby face It’s a game parents like to play: What will my child look like when she grows up? A computer could now answer the question in less than a minute. Brain spotting Football concussions get a lot of attention, but UW researchers want to know how a single brain injury can affect an ordinary person decades down the line. December 1, 2014 Clues from bird brains Brain cells that multiply to help birds sing their best during breeding season are known to die back naturally later in the year. For the first time, researchers have described the series of events that cue new neuron growth each spring. Phone training Mobile phones have become second-nature for most people. What’s coming next, say UW researchers, is the ability to interact with our devices not just with touchscreens, but through gestures in the space around the phone. Toddler logic Researchers have found that children as young as 2 intuitively use mathematical concepts such as probability to help make sense of the world. September 1, 2014 Tide turner Tidal power holds tremendous potential, especially here in the Evergreen State, because of the sheer volume of water moving in and out of Puget Sound each day. Robot response UW electrical engineers have developed telerobotics technology that could make disaster response faster and more efficient. June 1, 2014 Robot observers This fall the UW will complete installation of a massive digital ocean observatory. Dozens of instruments will connect to power and Internet cables on the sea floor, but the observatory also includes a new generation of ocean explorers: robots that will zoom up and down through almost two miles of ocean to monitor the water conditions and marine life above. March 1, 2014 Lake Mars The mystery of how the surface of Mars, long dead and dry, could have flowed with water billions of years ago may have been solved by research that included a University of Washington astronomer. Brain sugar A growing body of evidence suggests that the brain plays a key role in glucose regulation and the development of type 2 diabetes. Genetic echo Researchers led by Dr. John Stamatoyannopoulos have discovered a second code hiding within DNA. This second code contains information that changes how scientists read the instructions contained in DNA and interpret mutations to make sense of health and disease. Got data. Now what? At the UW, the best minds are collaborating to ask questions and harness the power of “Big Data” to find answers and seek solutions to advance the common good. December 1, 2013 Autism onset Between ages 3 and 10, children with autism spectrum disorder exhibit distinct brain chemical changes that differ from children with developmental delays and those with typical development, according to a new study led by UW researchers. Distracted drivers In Washington state’s first study to examine driver use of electronic devices, UW investigators saw that more than 8 percent of drivers were engaging with such devices behind the wheel, higher than previously estimated. Brain bonding UW researchers have performed what they believe is the first noninvasive human-to-human brain interface, with one researcher able to send a brain signal via the Internet to control the hand motions of a fellow researcher. Robot bonds Julie Carpenter, who earned her doctorate in education from the UW in June, isn’t interested in fantasy movie robots. She wants to know something more serious: the social relationship between robots and their operators in the military. September 1, 2013 The inspiration inquiry Expanding the boundaries of knowledge in dance, theater and other performing arts requires research of a different stripe. Wi-Fi lifestyle Thanks to gesture-recognition technology developed by University of Washington computer scientists, you may soon be able to brew a pot of coffee, shut off your computer, and turn up the stereo with just a few waves of your hands. Pollution pall For years, scientists regarded the decades of drought in Central Africa that reached an apex in the 1980s as the result of poor agricultural practices and overgrazing. New University of Washington research, however, shows that the drought was caused at least in part by Northern Hemisphere air pollution. Finding phosphorous Life on Earth may have never come to exist if not for some meteorites that pelted the planet billions of years ago. Keeping kids clean and sober An answer to teen drug use isn’t quite as simple as “just say no.” Many teenagers know they are supposed to say no to tobacco, alcohol and other drugs but they don’t know why. June 1, 2013 Planet unearthed Using the Kepler telescope, scientists have been looking for Earth-like planets beyond the solar system since 2009. UW associate professor of astronomy Eric Agol has discovered perhaps the most Earth-like planet yet found outside the solar system. Keeping cool UW scientists have provided fresh insight into an issue that has vexed civilization since the beginning: how to keep a drink cold on a hot day. December 1, 2012 More than 'junk' For decades most scientists thought the bulk of the material in the human genome—up to 95 percent—was “junk DNA.” It now turns out much of this “junk” actually contains the vital instructions that switch genes on and off in all kinds of different cells. Blind mice see the light Researchers who injected a new chemical into the eyes of blind mice made the mice sensitive to light, a finding that could hold promise for people with disease that cause blindness. Smarter on asthma Researchers at the UW and Seattle Children’s have developed a smartphone app that gives an accurate reading of lung function. Fibbing on fat When it comes to reporting whether we’ve lost or gained weight over the previous year, we may not be lying exactly but many of us are guilty of wishful thinking. Better imaging Lodespin Labs, a new company founded by UW researchers in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering with support from UW’s Center for Commercialization, may help solve a worrying problem in health care. September 1, 2012 Stat star Awards and honors aren’t what it’s about for the School of Public Health’s Daniela Witten, assistant professor in the nation’s No. 1 rated Biostatistics Department. She’s in it for the work. USDA report off base If you fill your shopping cart with healthy foods, it will cost you less than if you purchased highly processed “junk” food full of high fat and sugar content, the U.S. Department of Agriculture says. Not so, says Adam Drewnowski, professor of epidemiology in the UW School of Public Health. Tree-sized benefits Professor James Lutz, UW research scientist in environmental and forest sciences, is the lead author of the largest quantitative study yet on the importance of big trees in temperate forests. Hope for broken hearts Cardiology researchers at the UW are engaged in exciting work to explore whether a patient’s own stem cells can foster the regeneration of damaged heart muscle. June 1, 2012 Distance diagnostics Paul Yager, chair of the UW Bioengineering Department, is principal investigator on two grants totaling up to $26 million that aim to move diagnostic medicine away from standard antibody testing to paper. Autism link UW researchers were one of three teams of university scientists who found a link between autism spectrum disorder and mutations that occur spontaneously near or during conception. March 1, 2012 More pressure, less tech A UW Information School study found that college students—only weeks away from final exams and studying in the library—intentionally pared down their use of information technology devices. New wisdom on teeth Dr. Greg Huang, Chairman of the UW Department of Orthodontics, says, that for those whose wisdom teeth are developing normally, a watchful waiting approach may be reasonable. Genome funding The National Human Genome Research Institute recently announced the establishment of two major programs at UW that will receive about $30 million in funding over four years. Taming the saxophone The Broctave Key—the first U.S. patented invention from one of the UW Arts divisions—is now on its way to being manufactured. December 1, 2011 Tall order Thanks to a grant from the National Science Foundation, Earth and Space Sciences Professors Bernard Hallet and Howard Conway are trying to determine whether glaciers speed up or slow erosion in the Himalaya. More talk, less pot A study shows that a brief, voluntary chat with an adult led to a 20 percent decrease in marijuana use for teens who are frequent users. Biofuel: a poplar idea The U.S. Department of Agriculture awarded the University of Washington a $40 million grant to turn woody biomass—mainly poplar trees—into biogasoline and renewable aviation fuel. September 1, 2011 Boost for Head Start Two UW College of Education researchers, both with previous classroom experience, are going to find out which teaching and learning practices are best for kids in Head Start. Gene warfare In the future, global-health experts may be able to cast a genetic net over mosquitoes to prevent them from spreading malaria to people. UW Alumni Association Instagram UW Alumni Association Facebook @UWalum Contact the magazine About Subscribe Update your info University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA