MENU People Features Hub Solutions Arts Sports Letters Art May 29, 2022 Immersive art The Henry Art Gallery’s commissioned work from Bolivian-American artist Donna Huanca is on display through April 2023. March 5, 2022 ‘You Deserve the World’ Ally Ang is a 2021 graduate of the UW Master of Fine Arts program in creative writing, with a focus on poetry. March 4, 2022 Biodiversity in a box Nature photographer David Liittschwager captures biodiversity in one cubic foot of space. March 1, 2022 Preserving crafts in India Judy Frater, '87, put her UW museology degree to good use by seeking out and empowering local Indian artisans. December 4, 2021 Stepping up Dance students and faculty once again get a chance to strut their stuff. Imogen exposed Imogen Cunningham was an innovative and influential fine art photographer. A retrospective features nearly 200 of her works. The art of curiosity As she curates an exhibit at the Jacob Lawrence Gallery, doctoral student Brittney Frantece examines art through a critical lens. Portraits of justice Alfredo Arreguin has painted the official portraits for three justices on the Washington State Supreme Court. At 86, the master of Mexican-American art remains a source of colorful ideas and vivid canvases. November 19, 2021 From pain to poetry Poet Jane Wong isn’t afraid to lay her emotions bare as she explores ways beyond the written page to reach audiences. September 11, 2021 Art and exploration “Fly Your Own Thing,” a celebration of the late Alden Mason, ’42, ’47, is on exhibit at the Bellevue Arts Museum. Ballet in the Cold War The Cold War played out on exotic battlegrounds. Perhaps none were stranger—and had more unexpected outcomes—than cultural-exchange ballet tours. September 8, 2021 Visual music Through the interplay of light with her creations, artist Barbara Earl Thomas creates ‘ordinary magic.’ Her extraordinary work explores childhood, race and religion. September 4, 2021 A life in design Nin Truong brings creativity and sustainability to the world of public art, skateboarding and apparel. June 10, 2021 The B-Side “The B-Side,” on display at the Henry Art Gallery, is a large-scale wall painting, is one of Gary Simmons’ “erasure drawings.” June 7, 2021 Curiosity and clay From the start, Seattle artist George Rodriguez explored identity, culture and community in his work. May 11, 2021 ‘Guests’ at the Burke Artists Tony Johnson (naschio) and Adam McIsaac installed their sculpture, “Guests From the Great River,” just outside the Burke Museum. Radical works A little-seen series by Jacob Lawrence, one of the country’s most celebrated Black artists and one of the UW’s most beloved art professors, is now on view at the Seattle Art Museum. April 17, 2021 Frontline photographer Photographer David Ryder, ’06, ’11, was recently recognized as UW Bothell's Alumni of the Year recipient. March 13, 2021 Surveying the Native art of the Pacific Northwest Here's what it's like to be a student in the University of Washington's class about Indigenous art. March 11, 2021 Bracing artistry Residents in the School of Dentistry’s orthodontics program crafted wire sculptures using the materials of their profession. Native knowledge Native art is prominent in the life of Miranda Belarde-Lewis, an assistant professor in the University of Washington Information School. March 9, 2021 Culture crew Their commitment to equity brought three UW alumni to 4Culture—and it has remained the agency’s North Star in its pandemic response. December 16, 2020 Honoring our roots In celebration of the Seattle Japanese Garden’s 60th birthday this summer, a number of local artists created works honoring the landscape and the people involved. November 12, 2020 A new face teaches American portraiture Assistant Professor Juliet Sperling, pictured here, began teaching American art history at the University of Washington this fall. She took us on a tour of U.S. history by looking at 18 portraits over four centuries. September 21, 2020 Future facing A sculpture by Kenyan-American artist Wangechi Mutu will move to its new home at the UW in front of the plaza of the Hans Rosling Center for Population Health. August 21, 2020 Make fine art with a UW professor, from his kitchen to yours The chair of UW’s Printmaking Program designed a popular new class during the pandemic, stamping out doubt about how effective remote learning can be. June 10, 2020 The Wright eye Virginia Bloedel Wright, 1929-2020, brought the Broken Obelisk to the UW and funded countless shows at the Henry Art Gallery. Meet the photographer: Jackie Russo A portrait photographer in Mexico City photographed eight UW teachers for our June 2020 issue. May 4, 2020 A brush with depth Jake Prendez, ’00, knows what it's like to feel like an outsider. Now he offers fellow Latinx artists a place to showcase their work. March 13, 2020 A life study A devastating fire makes painter Grace Flott struggle for control of her body—and her life. March 5, 2020 Wonder of Warashina The Smithsonian honors Patti Warashina, ’62, ’64, whose humor and innovative perspectives on the human condition put a new face on ceramics. June 2, 2019 Northwest dressed From timber territory to tech hub, the Northwest passion for fashion has flourished. May 24, 2018 Meet the artist: Miha Sarani The painter behind our June 2018 cover is a UW master's student. October 19, 2017 Painting labor Arely Morales, '17, took inspiration from Latino artists and a poet in developing her style. March 1, 2016 KEXP rocks its new digs KEXP and its predecessor KCMU have been a staple of the Seattle music community for four decades. With new digs at the Seattle Center and a 30-year cooperative agreement with the UW, the station enters its next phase as an independent nonprofit. September 1, 2015 25 years of dance The UW's unique master's program influences dance education across the country. March 1, 2015 ‘I am art'’ “I am not a painter or a sculptor or a glass artist. I am art.” Anyone familiar with the work of American Indian Studies professor Marvin Oliver understands that this is not an egotistical statement, but a reflection of a vision that embraces an astonishing range of materials, styles and techniques. September 1, 2014 Prey for the senses Ann Hamilton delves again into the world of animal-human relationships in her upcoming show at the Henry Art Gallery. September 1, 2013 The inspiration inquiry Expanding the boundaries of knowledge in dance, theater and other performing arts requires research of a different stripe. September 1, 2012 Passion for nature In their new book, nature artist Tony Angell and UW professor of wildlife science John Marzluff disabuse the notion that the family of birds known as corvids—crows, jays, magpies—possess mere “bird brains.” March 1, 2012 'Arts den mother' It’s easy to feel like Nancy Guppy, ’82, is a personal friend even if you have never met her. June 1, 2011 Maestro steps aside Matt Krashan, the UW’s maestro of music, dance and more, will retire in September from his position as director of the UW World Series, a program that is recognized nationally for its excellence and innovation in the performing arts. December 1, 2010 Market man Ben Franz-Knight, '96, is executive director of the Pike Place Market Preservation & Development Authority, the organization that oversees the 103-year-old Seattle institution. March 1, 2009 Just call her a scholar Ellen Dissanayake is working in a field she invented: evolutionary aesthetics, the study of art-making as an innate human behavior that helps us survive. Evolution of art Ellen Dissanayake came up with a paradigm-changing theory: Art-making evolved as a behavior that contained advantages for human survival-and those advantages went far beyond what Charles Darwin ever imagined. The healing arts Last fall, the UW School of Medicine and the Henry Art Gallery teamed up to offer a new course to help medical students develop their diagnostic skills by visiting art museums. December 1, 2007 UW ceramic arts program is in good hands with Patti Warashina The UW’s ceramic arts program is ranked among the top five in the nation. Ceramic artist Patti Warashina, ’62, ’64, is one of the reasons why. March 1, 2006 The mountain mover From the Vietnam Veterans Memorial to her new topographical installations at the Henry, Maya Lin has permanently altered the landscape—and the way we look at it. September 1, 2005 High-tech art When the UW’s Center for Digital Arts and Experimental Media (DXARTS) started four years ago, it set the standard for digital arts education and became the envy of other institutions around the world. June 1, 2005 Dream weaver From Lever House to the White House, from Fallingwater to the Louvre, Jack Lenor Larsen’s fabrics have graced the world’s most inspiring spaces. Magic carpet When Meany Hall opened its doors in 1996, there was plenty of drama in the lobby as well as on stage. The carpet was extraordinarily beautiful. March 1, 2002 Making it work He transformed an obscure theater group into a legend; he nurtured three Pulitzer Prize-winning plays; he may even masquerade as a female playwright—but drama professor Jon Jory insists it's all in a day's work. September 1, 2001 The magic realist After childhood abandonment and heartbreak, Alfredo Arreguin became one of the foremost Mexican-American painters of his generation. December 1, 2000 Tift retrospective Mary Dreher Tift's vision of taking family objects—cut glass bowls, cigar boxes, carafes—and turning them into works of art will be on display in an exhibit. Stepping out It isn't just her personality that makes Hannah Wiley ideally suited to run the UW's summer arts festival. It's her choices in the earlier chapters of her life. September 1, 1998 Touchable art Georgia Gerber, '82, who has become one of the most well-known and sought-after bronze sculptors in America. March 1, 1998 George Tsutakawa, 1910-1998 George Tsutakawa was a longtime art professor at the University of Washington who was one of the Pacific Northwest's most talented and prolific artists. June 1, 1997 Art and resilience The 1997 UW Alumnus Summa Laude Dignatus and pioneer in photorealism survived a spinal blood clot to paint again. March 1, 1997 Artistic expansion The Henry will take a major step forward as the familiar red brick building is joined with a new, modernist three-level structure. December 1, 1994 George stands tall For 18 years of humiliation at the University of Washington, the Father of Our Country had his feet in the mud. June 1, 1993 Chihuly’s world of glass For his distinguished career in the arts, Dale Chihuly, '65, is the 1993 UW Alumnus Summa Laude Dignatus. June 1, 1992 Magnum opus For the photographers of Magnum Photos Inc., the world is their workplace. An exhibit showcases their work. March 1, 1992 The innocent eye Collage artist Richard Kehl wants his students to take a fresh look at the world. Song for the roses Jack Gladstone, '82 includes "Pasadena Free For All" among 15 songs in his second album entitled "In the Shadow of Mt. Lassen." June 1, 1991 Resourceful art Ed Rossbach's work has not only earned him worldwide acclaim but redefined conventional notions about what materials are potentially precious. March 1, 1991 Vandalism or art? As some try to scrub graffiti from the facades of inner cities, others defend it as a form of self-expression. June 1, 1990 Unlocking beauty Renowned furniture artist and designer George Nakashima is the UW’s 1990 Alumnus Summa Laude Dignatus. UW Alumni Association Instagram UW Alumni Association Facebook @UWalum Contact the magazine About Subscribe Update your info University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA