Skip to main content Search < Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni On Campus Books Issues About Contact Us Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni On Campus Books Alumni 3 Cool Card Games Created by Columbia Alumni For icebreakers, gatherings, or family nights in. By Julia Joy | Spring/Summer 2022 Hands: Pixel-Shot / shutterstock; michaeljung / shutterstock; pticelov / shutterstock Deep Dilemmas Would you rather travel back in time to tell yourself two words or have your home clean itself every day? How about choosing between getting a paper cut every time you open an envelope and stopping at each floor every time you use an elevator? Deep Dilemmas, a deck of “would you rather” cards created by Bryan Richman ’19BUS, is guaranteed to spark unusual debate. Richman, who describes himself as a “management consultant by day and e-commerce entrepreneur on nights and weekends,” wrote the cards’ two hundred questions during quarantine in 2020. Trivia for Us Cofounded in 2019 by communications professional Deydra Bringas ’18SPS, Trivia for Us promotes team building and Black culture through friendly competitions tailored primarily to an African-American audience. “We’re determined to change the quiz-game landscape to be more inclusive and diverse,” Bringas says. Originally focused on hosting interactive activities for corporate meetings, school events, and parties, Trivia for Us recently launched a card-game edition for home use. The deck contains one hundred questions in categories such as entertainment, Black history, and “finish the lyric.” Blitz Champz Blitz Champz, a “football card game for jocks and nerds,” encourages players ages seven and older to practice math and think strategically. Participants earn points for drawing cards corresponding to particular football plays (six for a touchdown, three for a field goal) and reduce their opponents’ scores with tackles, interceptions, and blocked kicks. Whoever gets to twenty-one points first is the winner. Blitz Champz is the creation of Adrienne Smith ’01BUS, a former star member of the US women’s national flag and tackle football teams. Today, in addition to running Blitz Champz, Smith is the cofounder and CEO of the Harlem Edutainment Company, which hosts educational activities and field trips for K–12 students. This article appears in the Spring/Summer 2022 print edition of Columbia Magazine with the title "Deal Us In." Read more from Julia Joy Related Stories Health & Medicine Brain Games: How the Mind Performs Under Pressure On Campus Letter Head Arts & Humanities Columbia Undergrads Roar Through "College Bowl" Alumni Outta Here! Top Stories Old Friends Columbia B-School’s New Home Is Open for Business Lets Talk About Sex on YouTube Second Acts: It’s Never Too Late to Go Back to School Brain Games: How the Mind Performs Under Pressure All categories > Read more from Julia Joy More From Alumni Lets Talk About Sex on YouTube Leeza Mangaldas ’11CC has made a career out of demystifying taboos and destigmatizing sexuality Butler Library in 9,000 Legos John Davisson '08CC reconstructs a beloved campus building Madeleine Albright, One of Columbia’s Greatest Ambassadors In her final years, the former US secretary of state was a campus mainstay Stay Connected. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name E-mail Comment I consent to receive e-mail communications from Columbia Magazine. General Data Protection Regulation Columbia University Privacy Notice Latest Issue Past Issues Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni Newsmakers On Campus Books About the Magazine Staff Advertising Awards Contact Us columbia.edu Alumni Association Update Your Information Give to Columbia Magazine ©2022 Columbia University