Skip to main content Search < Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni On Campus Books Issues About Contact Us Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni On Campus Books Health & Medicine Health & Medicine Brain Games: How the Mind Performs Under Pressure What neuroscience and psychology can tell us about baseball – and ourselves Most Popular Angela Christiano (Allison Michael Orenstein) Radical Solutions for Baldness Geneticist Angela Christiano’s research not only offers hope to those suffering from hair loss, it could point the way to new cancer therapies What Causes Autism? Study of 100,000 Kids Reveals New Clues Psychiatrist and epidemiologist Mady Hornig discusses the possible roots of this mysterious condition Hair-Regeneration Method the First to Grow New Follicles Columbia scientists have done something that until now only snake-oil salesmen claimed was possible More Stories Health & Medicine Why COVID-19 Sufferers Lose Their Sense of Smell Immune systems provoke a firestorm of molecular chaos, according to new Columbia research Health & Medicine What Causes Autism? Study of 100,000 Kids Reveals New Clues Psychiatrist and epidemiologist Mady Hornig discusses the possible roots of this mysterious condition Health & Medicine What Do Memories Look Like? Columbia neuroscientists have figured out how to visually map memory formation Health & Medicine Shaping the Future of Public Health At 100, Columbia’s Mailman School prepares to address some major societal challenges Health & Medicine The Mental Weight of COVID-19 Columbia psychologists and psychiatrists prepare for a tsunami of mental-health issues caused by the collective trauma of the pandemic Health & Medicine Smog’s Threat to the Brain Our brains may be even more vulnerable to air pollution than previously thought Health & Medicine The Complex Legacies of Lyme Disease A new clinic at Columbia specializes in treating patients with long-haul symptoms Health & Medicine Going Grey? Relax. Those Silver Strands Could Disappear The greying process is kickstarted by stress hormones — and it may even be reversible Health & Medicine A New Way of Looking at Cancer Siddhartha Mukherjee wrote the book on cancer. Can he transform the way it’s treated? Health & Medicine The Nurse Practitioner Who Wants to Bring Concierge Health Care to All Rakiyah Jones ’19NRS is expanding access one patient at a time Health & Medicine A Columbia Startup Finds a Way to Clean Up Kinnos, a biotech company, has a simple but effective new disinfection tool for the pandemic era and beyond Health & Medicine “Get the Shot!” Urges Rap Star Darryl “DMC” McDaniels of Run-DMC is appearing in a new series of educational music videos launched by Hip Hop Public Health Read More Stay Connected. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name E-mail Comment I consent to receive e-mail communications from Columbia Magazine. General Data Protection Regulation Columbia University Privacy Notice Latest Issue Past Issues Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni Newsmakers On Campus Books About the Magazine Staff Advertising Awards Contact Us columbia.edu Alumni Association Update Your Information Give to Columbia Magazine ©2022 Columbia University