Skip to main content Search < Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni On Campus Books Issues About Contact Us Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni On Campus Books About the Magazine Columbia Magazine was founded in 1975 and is published in print three times a year by Columbia University’s Office of Alumni and Development. The magazine is sent to alumni of Columbia in the US and abroad, as well as to faculty, staff, and friends. 2022 publication schedule Winter: January 18, 2022 Spring/Summer: May 16, 2022 Fall: September 12, 2022 FAQs How do I update my address or subscription information? Update your address online by using this form or visiting the Columbia alumni community. You can also e-mail assistmag@columbia.edu for address and subscription-related inquiries. Does Columbia Magazine print obituaries or death notices? Columbia Magazine does not publish alumni or faculty obituaries. We invite you to contact individual school or college magazines, such as Columbia College Today, which publishes obituaries for graduates of Columbia College. How do I submit a book for a review? Columbia Magazine publishes a limited number of book reviews, but we are always eager to hear about new books. Please send a note with the title, subject, and publisher material to magazine@columbia.edu. Please note that books must be authored by Columbia alumni or faculty to be considered for a review. You can also submit publications to the Columbia Alumni Bookshelf. Can I submit an article to Columbia Magazine? While nearly all of the articles in the magazine are written by the staff or freelance writers, the editors are always glad to hear ideas for articles. The best way to determine if your idea is appropriate for the magazine is to study past content. Rather than submitting an article on spec, please send a proposal to magazine@columbia.edu, explaining the idea, the Columbia angle, the length, and the likely sources. Authors should also submit two samples of their published writing. Because of the number of proposals we receive, and because our staff is small, you may have to wait some time before hearing back from us. How do I send a message to someone who was mentioned in Columbia Magazine? If you send us an e-mail or letter, we will try to forward the message to the person you are trying to reach. We cannot give out e-mail or postal addresses or telephone numbers. If you are trying to contact a former classmate, you can look them up in the alumni directory. How do I get the rights to reproduce an article from Columbia Magazine? Please send a written request to the editor at magazine@columbia.edu. How do I send a letter to the editor? E-mail feedback@columbia.edu. How do I donate to the magazine? You can send a donation through our online giving form or by mailing a US-issued check to the Columbia Magazine office at 622 W. 113th St. New York, NY 10025. The contents of the magazine are ©2022 by the Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York. Stay Connected. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name E-mail Comment I consent to receive e-mail communications from Columbia Magazine. General Data Protection Regulation Columbia University Privacy Notice Latest Issue Past Issues Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni Newsmakers On Campus Books About the Magazine Staff Advertising Awards Contact Us columbia.edu Alumni Association Update Your Information Give to Columbia Magazine ©2022 Columbia University