Skip to main content Search < Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni On Campus Books Issues About Contact Us Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni On Campus Books Health & Medicine World’s Smallest Tape Recorder Built From Microbes By David J. Craig | Spring/Summer 2018 E. coli bacteria. (Steve Gschmeissner / Science Photo Library) Through a few clever molecular hacks, researchers at Columbia University Irving Medical Center have converted a strain of bacteria into a microbial “tape recorder” that they say could be used to detect the presence of invasive microbes, or worrisome levels of familiar molecules, inside the human body. The researchers, led by cell biologist Harris Wang, modified an ordinary laboratory strain of the ubiquitous human-gut microbe E. coli, enabling it to record, in its own DNA, information about any microorganisms or chemical compounds with which it interacts. The new, specially engineered E. coli can also document the order in which it encounters other substances, thereby time-stamping the events. Harris Wang “Such bacteria, swallowed by a patient, might be able to record the changes they experience through the whole digestive tract, yielding an unprecedented view of previously inaccessible phenomena,” says Wang, whose paper appeared in the journal Science. To create this tool, the researchers exploited a part of E. coli’s immune system that snips out pieces of DNA from invading viruses and then stores the foreign code for the purpose of quickly recognizing and attacking the viruses in the future. (This special immune function, which is found in many bacteria and is known as CRISPR-Cas, has been used by other scientists as a gene-editing technology.) Wang modified CRISPR-Cas to record not only viral DNA but a variety of chemical signals. For example, his engineered E. coli could detect the presence of certain sugars in the gut that indicate an infection. “The CRISPR-Cas system is a natural biological memory device,” says Wang, who notes that his technology will need to be made more efficient before it can be used clinically. “From an engineering perspective that’s actually quite nice, because it’s already a system that has been honed through evolution to be really great at storing information.” Read more from David J. Craig Related Stories Health & Medicine Gut Bacteria Linked to Chronic Fatigue Syndrome Health & Medicine What Gorilla Poop Reveals About Our Messed-up Diet Health & Medicine Yeast-Based Tool Speeds Diagnosis Health & Medicine With New Diagnostic Test, Viruses Have Nowhere to Hide Top Stories Old Friends Columbia B-School’s New Home Is Open for Business Lets Talk About Sex on YouTube Second Acts: It’s Never Too Late to Go Back to School Brain Games: How the Mind Performs Under Pressure All categories > Read more from David J. Craig More From Health & Medicine Why COVID-19 Sufferers Lose Their Sense of Smell Immune systems provoke a firestorm of molecular chaos, according to new Columbia research Brain Games: How the Mind Performs Under Pressure What neuroscience and psychology can tell us about baseball – and ourselves What Causes Autism? Study of 100,000 Kids Reveals New Clues Psychiatrist and epidemiologist Mady Hornig discusses the possible roots of this mysterious condition Stay Connected. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name E-mail Comment I consent to receive e-mail communications from Columbia Magazine. General Data Protection Regulation Columbia University Privacy Notice Latest Issue Past Issues Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni Newsmakers On Campus Books About the Magazine Staff Advertising Awards Contact Us columbia.edu Alumni Association Update Your Information Give to Columbia Magazine ©2022 Columbia University