Skip to main content Search < Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni On Campus Books Issues About Contact Us Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni On Campus Books Alumni Butler Library in 9,000 Legos By Julia Joy | Spring/Summer 2022 John Davisson (Scott Suchman) Some people took up jigsaw puzzles during the pandemic, others redecorated their homes. John Davisson ’08CC, an attorney in Washington, DC, turned to Legos. “I’m a lifelong fan,” says Davisson, who started experimenting with designing his own custom models in 2020. “It’s a great creative outlet when you’re stuck at home.” The former editor in chief of the Columbia Spectator chose to recreate a building close to his heart: Butler Library, where he spent countless hours as a history major (“often procrastinating, sometimes studying”). While Davisson has also constructed models of several DC landmarks, including the Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception and the National Museum of African American History and Culture, Butler was an obvious choice for his foray into miniatures, he says. “It’s a really incredible building, inside and out.” Left: Butler Library's façade. Right: the Wien Reference Room and stacks. (Scott Suchman) Read more from Julia Joy Related Stories On Campus Letter Head On Campus 6 Fascinating Finds from Columbia’s Archives On Campus How Many Columbians Does It Take to Change a Light Bulb? Arts & Humanities A Life in Comics: The Graphic Adventures of Karen Green Top Stories Old Friends Columbia B-School’s New Home Is Open for Business Lets Talk About Sex on YouTube Second Acts: It’s Never Too Late to Go Back to School Brain Games: How the Mind Performs Under Pressure All categories > Read more from Julia Joy More From Alumni Lets Talk About Sex on YouTube Leeza Mangaldas ’11CC has made a career out of demystifying taboos and destigmatizing sexuality 3 Cool Card Games Created by Columbia Alumni For icebreakers, gatherings, or family nights in Madeleine Albright, One of Columbia’s Greatest Ambassadors In her final years, the former US secretary of state was a campus mainstay Stay Connected. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name E-mail Comment I consent to receive e-mail communications from Columbia Magazine. General Data Protection Regulation Columbia University Privacy Notice Latest Issue Past Issues Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni Newsmakers On Campus Books About the Magazine Staff Advertising Awards Contact Us columbia.edu Alumni Association Update Your Information Give to Columbia Magazine ©2022 Columbia University