Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Search Type Faculty & Staff Event Featured Profile News Opportunity Resource Student Research Project Videos Search Menu Info for… [Select an Audience] [Select An Audience] Prospective Undergraduate Students Current Undergraduate Students Faculty & Staff Parents Alumni Employers People Columbia Engineering Get Involved Columbia Engineering Magazine | Fall 2018 Story & Press Release Transformers A sustainable future is powered by renewable energy—but for that to be viable, wind, solar, and water technologies must be paired with radically new energy storage solutions. Researchers at the Columbia Electrochemical Energy Center are rising to the challenge. More In This Issue Sustainable Humanity Balancing the Water-Energy Nexus Healthy Humanity Complex Tissue Regeneration Secure Humanity Machine Learning 2.0 Connected Humanity Self-correcting Algorithms Creative Humanity The Big Picture in Data Science Data Science Worldly Computation: Q&A With Christos Papadimitriou The Brookhaven Connection The Art of Sound Healthy Humanity Doctoral Students Receive Prestigious New Scholarships Testing the Limits Wired for Success Designed to Grow Also in This Issue Letter from Dean Mary C. Boyce Spot News Roundup Letter from the Alumni Association Presidents Class Notes Program Notes In Memoriam Donor Spotlight The Columbia Electrochemical Energy Center Launch Runtime 3:43 Columbia Engineering has launched a new research center, the Columbia Electrochemical Energy Center (CEEC), to address energy storage and conversion using batteries and fuel cells in transformative ways. Watch how the center tackles new energy solutions from atoms to the grid. This multi-faceted approach is driven by collaborations between participants from many disciplines. The Columbia Electrochemical Energy Center Launch Runtime 3:43 Columbia Engineering has launched a new research center, the Columbia Electrochemical Energy Center (CEEC), to address energy storage and conversion using batteries and fuel cells in transformative ways. Watch how the center tackles new energy solutions from atoms to the grid. This multi-faceted approach is driven by collaborations between participants from many disciplines. COSMOS: a new generation of wireless technologies Runtime 5:09 The National Science Foundation (NSF) with industry partners is investing $100 million to advance next generation wireless networks. Led by Columbia Engineering with research partners at Rutgers, and NYU, the platform, called COSMOS, will be a testbed in West Harlem for data-intensive applications, virtual reality, and smart cities. Biomedical Engineering at Columbia Runtime 4:02 By working at the intersection of engineering, biology, and medicine, the Department of Biomedical Engineering at Columbia University offers students a unique opportunity to solve problems and better understand living systems and their behavior. From this knowledge comes the development of biomedical systems and devices that improve the health of humanity. Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics at Columbia Runtime 3:57 The Department of Civil Engineering and Engineering Mechanics has access to some of the greatest engineering projects and companies in the world, here in NYC. Developing novel ways to monitor the safety of suspension bridges using sensors. Determining the effectiveness and efficiency of green roofs. Designing new building materials that have superior strength and at the same time are environmentally friendly and compatible with sustainable development. Defining the state-of-the-art in analyzing and designing structures using computers. Our department identifies emerging issues in the complex interactions between the built and natural environment. Other Issues Spring 2022 Spring 2021 Fall 2020 Fall 2019 Spring 2019 Show More 500 W. 120th Steet #510 New York, NY 10027 Tel (212) 854-2993 Columbia Engineering Directory Columbia Engineering Columbia University Faculty Job Opportunities