Skip to main content Search < Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni On Campus Books Issues About Contact Us Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni On Campus Books David J. Craig Senior Editor David edits the Explorations and Bulletin sections of Columbia Magazine and writes mainly about social science and the natural sciences. He received degrees from the University of Connecticut in sociology and English and has worked as a journalist for 20 years. Articles by David J. Craig Books How COVID-19 Infected Democracy Some world leaders used the pandemic as an excuse to silence critics and roll back civil liberties. Can the damage be undone? Science & Technology Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife How climate change is taking its toll on animal behavior Science & Technology The Magic of Building with Mushrooms Fungus-based construction materials could be useful in remote settings or at the scenes of natural disasters Health & Medicine Why COVID-19 Sufferers Lose Their Sense of Smell Immune systems provoke a firestorm of molecular chaos, according to new Columbia research Science & Technology A Simple Way to Reframe Bad Memories Columbia researchers on how to rewire our most embarrassing, depressing, and guilt-inducing recollections Science & Technology Study of Sheep Poop Leads to Huge Scoop on the Vikings Clues buried in mud bust a centuries-old myth about the ancient warriors Health & Medicine What Causes Autism? Study of 100,000 Kids Reveals New Clues Psychiatrist and epidemiologist Mady Hornig discusses the possible roots of this mysterious condition Science & Technology 6 Things You Need to Know About Climate Change Now With global warming now a full-blown crisis, Columbia experts are documenting the dangers and developing solutions Health & Medicine What Do Memories Look Like? Columbia neuroscientists have figured out how to visually map memory formation Science & Technology A Better Way to Fight Workplace Racial Bias Diversity training programs may be inadequate, say Columbia sociologists Science & Technology The Amazing Gender-Bending Behavior of Hummingbirds Columbia scientists discover why female white-necked jacobins often masquerade as males Books Why America’s Obsession with Civil Liberties Is Tearing the Country Apart A Columbia law professor offers a provocative new take on constitutional rights Read More Stay Connected. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name E-mail Comment I consent to receive e-mail communications from Columbia Magazine. General Data Protection Regulation Columbia University Privacy Notice Latest Issue Past Issues Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni Newsmakers On Campus Books About the Magazine Staff Advertising Awards Contact Us columbia.edu Alumni Association Update Your Information Give to Columbia Magazine ©2022 Columbia University