Skip to main content Menu Close Stories Connect About Archives Join Now Stories Connect About Archives Join Now Stop Video Under The Not So Big Top His massive miniature circus is a labor of love for Howard Tibbals ’59. Read Best Bets More Stories The Write Stuff NC State center receives a half-million dollar grant to digitize handwritten Arabic texts. TikTok Teacher Alease Daniel ’18 goes viral with online lessons on fertility. Mother Knows Best Kimberly Brown ’00 followed her mom on a journey to help Ukrainian refugees. Campus Lens From passing moments to new perspectives, take a look through a collection of our favorite campus shots from the NC State community. Explore Worth A look Worth A Look Dr. Green Jeans Coming soon: Your perfect pair of comfy jeans will be dyed by a digital printer, making them more environmentally sustainable than your current dungarees. Read more Running as a Pack Women’s cross country team won the 2021 NCAA title last fall with a true team effort. Read more 60 Seconds with Alyson Wilson Meet Alyson Wilson, associate vice chancellor for national security and special research initiatives. Read more Engineering Influx Growth in tech jobs in the Triangle leads to push for more students at NC State’s largest college. Read more Salute to the Vets The Veterans Alumni Network provides a community for NC State military and veteran alumni. Read more Working From Her Homeland Ritu Jadwani ’12 MR turned to her native India to launch a fair-trade fashion design brand. Read more Keep Up with the Pack Join the Alumni Association and receive the print version of NC State Magazine and get other great benefits.Join Now Submit a Class Note Do you have any exciting life news, like a marriage or a new job? We welcome any updates you have to include in our Class Notes section of the magazine. Just click on the link below to submit. Submit Now From the Vault Red, White and Black NC State magazine takes a look at the campus locations whose stories hold significance to African Americans and provide a more complete history of the university. Read more 20,000+ Members NC State Alumni are all over the world. Find ways to connect with other members of the Pack. 50+ Regional Networks Wolfpack alumni stay in touch via more than 50 regional networks around the United States. Campus Box 7503 NC State University Raleigh NC 27695-7503 919.515.3375 ncstate_editor@ncsu.edu About Contact Join Advertising RSS Feed Privacy Statement Terms of Use Advertising Notice NC State University Subscribe to News Email Submit Δ Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube All Content of this site ©2021 NC State Magazine. All rights reserved.