Skip to main content Search < Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni On Campus Books Issues About Contact Us Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni On Campus Books Books 6 Books to Add to Your Summer Reading List All from Columbia alumni authors. By Rebecca Shapiro | Spring/Summer 2022 Constructing a Nervous System By Margo Jefferson ’71JRN In this dazzling follow-up to her standout memoir Negroland, Pulitzer Prize–winning critic and Columbia writing professor Margo Jefferson weaves together her own memories and “raw intimacies” with stories of Black artists who influenced her, including a particularly moving ode to Ella Fitzgerald, whose singular talent was often stymied by the constraints of a racist society. More than just criticism or autobiography, the book is, in her words, an “assemblage [of] recombinant thoughts, memories, feelings, sensations, and words” — a boldly original project with great payoff. Worn By Sofi Thanhauser ’06CC Fashion is often considered frivolous, but Sofi Thanhauser’s riveting social history proves that it is anything but. Rather, as she writes, “there is scarcely a part of the human experience, historic or current, that the story of clothes does not touch.” Thanhauser organizes her book by material — linen, cotton, silk, synthetics, and wool — taking us from the courts of Louis XIV and Marie Antoinette to the homesteads of Colonial America to modern-day Chinese factories. Though she peppers her prose with entertaining anecdotes, the real takeaways from the book are the dire consequences — social, economic, and (increasingly) environmental — that the production of clothing has inflicted throughout history. One Damn Thing After Another By William P. Barr ’71CC, ’79GSAS One of only two attorneys general in history to serve under two different presidents, William P. Barr is uniquely qualified to comment on the current political landscape. In his new memoir, Barr chronicles his experiences working under George H. W. Bush and Donald Trump and delves into issues close to his heart. He is candid about the challenges of the chaotic Trump administration (leading up to his resignation in the final days) though also clear about the ways he feels the president was unfairly targeted. An instant New York Times bestseller, it’s a fascinating window into a turbulent time. Vladimir By Julia May Jonas ’12SOA “When I was a child, I loved old men, and I could tell that they also loved me.” So begins playwright Julia May Jonas’s wickedly funny, deliciously transgressive debut novel, which turns all sorts of things on their heads — especially aging, female desire, and the intersection thereof. When we meet our narrator, she is no longer a child but a fifty-eight-year-old professor at a mediocre liberal-arts school somewhere in upstate New York. Her husband, also a professor, has just been #MeTooed; news of his many dalliances with students has prompted calls for his removal. But our narrator is busy herself, lusting after a new hire: “My prey, my prize, my Vladimir.” Nods to Lolita are, of course, intentional. But Jonas uses the real-life literary Vladimir as a mere launching pad, taking her antiheroine in plenty of unexpected directions. The Beauty of Dusk By Frank Bruni ’88JRN One morning in the fall of 2017, Frank Bruni woke up to find the vision in his right eye blurred. He soon learned that he had suffered a small stroke and that there was a significant chance of losing the sight in his other eye, which would render him completely blind. In his moving memoir, Bruni writes about adjusting to his new normal — one compounded by an unexpected breakup with his longtime partner — and how he manages to find a peaceful, fulfilling way forward. Smashing Statues By Erin L. Thompson ’02BC, ’10LAW, ’10GSAS In recent years, America has become embroiled in a debate about public monuments, particularly those depicting controversial historical figures. Which deserve to stay? Which should come down? And when people take these matters into their own hands, what are the consequences? Erin L. Thompson, who holds both a law degree and a doctorate in art history from Columbia, is an expert in art crime and a consummate guide to these complicated issues. In her carefully researched new book, she takes us through the history of some of America’s most famous statues and provides insight into the current debate. Read more from Rebecca Shapiro Related Stories Books Book Review: "Horse" Books The Tricky Role of Social Media in Social-Justice Movements Books True Crimes of Greedy Masterminds Books Review: "The School for Good Mothers" Top Stories Old Friends Columbia B-School’s New Home Is Open for Business Lets Talk About Sex on YouTube Second Acts: It’s Never Too Late to Go Back to School Brain Games: How the Mind Performs Under Pressure All categories > Read more from Rebecca Shapiro More From Books How COVID-19 Infected Democracy Some world leaders used the pandemic as an excuse to silence critics and roll back civil liberties. Can the damage be undone? The Tricky Role of Social Media in Social-Justice Movements A review of The Quiet Before: On the Unexpected Origins of Radical Ideas, by Gal Beckerman ’21JRN Book Review: "Horse" By Geraldine Brooks ’83JRN Stay Connected. Sign up for our newsletter. First Name Last Name E-mail Comment I consent to receive e-mail communications from Columbia Magazine. General Data Protection Regulation Columbia University Privacy Notice Latest Issue Past Issues Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Health & Medicine Alumni Newsmakers On Campus Books About the Magazine Staff Advertising Awards Contact Us columbia.edu Alumni Association Update Your Information Give to Columbia Magazine ©2022 Columbia University