MENU People Features Hub Solutions Arts Sports Letters Why we 🤍 the ECC Why we 🤍 the ECC Why we 🤍 the ECC You can organize a movement, build a community, find a campus family, find your calling or just escape from class. Four decades of alumni share their love of this place. Interviews by Hannelore Sudermann | Viewpoint Magazine Alumni, Features For the Love of iPhone Software developer Tom Love’s innovative programming language became the backbone of every Mac, iPhone and iPad. March 2022 Issue Community, Features, People, Students Beloved communities College of Built Environments students help historically Black churches survive gentrification. Viewpoint Magazine Alumni, Books, Features The voice of Yakima Valley While working on her doctorate, Monica De La Torre, ’16, studied the Yakima Valley's Radio Cadena. She shares their stories in “Feminista Frequencies." March 2022 Issue Hub × Campus Life | Community | Features | Husky History | March 3, 2022 The Kelly ECC at 50 Once a student activist’s dream, the Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center celebrates five decades as a space for diversity and inclusion. News | March 5, 2022 50 years of equal rights In 1972, Washington became one of the earlier states to ratify a gender equity amendment. Community | Letters | Students | March 2, 2022 Where our voices are heard Mustapha Samateh, president of the ASUW, reflects on his journey from Gambia to the UW. Campus Life | Students | March 5, 2022 Fungi friendly The Northwest is the perfect place for a mushroom enthusiast; one digs into the Burke Museum’s collection. Alumni | Campus News | Community | May 3, 2022 Supporting diversity Meet the 2022 recipients of the Multicultural Alumni Partnership awards. Alumni | Husky History | Sports | March 4, 2022 Sweet success Carlton Olson, ’61, overcame Type 1 diabetes to play 4 years of Husky baseball. Alumni | Features | Film & TV | March 4, 2022 A real character Versatility has been Jean Smart’s strength since her UW days. Now, the Emmy-winning actor’s star is shining brighter than ever. Alumni | News | March 4, 2022 Native leader joins Regents As a UW regent, Leonard Forsman plans to help represent Indigenous people. Alumni | Books | People | Sports | January 31, 2022 From puck steals to book deals Player-turned-agent Ryan Minkoff’s second book, “Nora’s Hockey Dream,” pays homage to his sister and all the girls who love hockey. Alumni | Arts & Entertainment | Film & TV | March 11, 2022 Win a trip to Browntown George Tramountanas, '93, turned personal tragedy to big-screen comedy in his new feature film about a unique incentive for weight loss. Campus Life | March 4, 2022 Galaxy gazing The Manastash Ridge, a basalt plateau that runs between Ellensburg and Yakima, is home to the UW’s 50-year-old observatory. Alumni | Campus News | Husky History | Obituaries | March 11, 2022 Remembering Desmond Tutu Twenty years ago, the human rights leader delivered a message of hope to Seattle. Alumni | News | People | Social Sciences | February 14, 2022 The power of representation An El Paso native's journey to UW leads to a key position as the White House Deputy Cabinet Secretary — and a piece of political power. Uncategorized | May 5, 2022 From Eastern WA to the 9th Circuit Judge Sal Mendoza, ’94, made history by becoming the first Hispanic judge from Washington to serve on the U.S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. Community | May 5, 2022 Air anniversaries UW-affiliated public radio stations KUOW and KEXP mark milestones in 2022. Faculty & Staff | People | March 18, 2022 Behind the scenes Tres Tracy Ballon, '01, is the master carpenter at the UW School of Drama. We talked to her about squirrels, big ideas and building sets (and boats). Campus Life | Campus News | Students | May 16, 2022 Why we love the ECC As the ECC celebrates 50 years of creating a space for diversity and inclusion, alumni share fond memories of the space. Alumni | Art | March 1, 2022 Preserving crafts in India Judy Frater, '87, put her UW museology degree to good use by seeking out and empowering local Indian artisans. Alumni | Sports | May 18, 2022 Heartfelt effort After the tragic and sudden loss of his friend, Adam Lang found a way to honor Daniel Phelps's memory. Sports | March 5, 2022 Foreign flourish The Husky men’s tennis team has high hopes this spring, thanks in part to the play of junior Clement Chidekh of Lyon, France. Sports | March 5, 2022 First on the floor Amara Cunningham leads the UW gymnastics team after being named All-Pac-12 Floor First Team as a junior. Research | STEM | March 5, 2022 Tech can be tricky A pilot project will establish a public-interest technology clinic to serve local community organizations and governments. Community | Husky History | March 1, 2022 One momentous week In the span of seven days in November 1961, civil-rights icon Martin Luther King Jr. and President John F. Kennedy spoke on campus. Obituaries | March 4, 2022 Mentor to many Millie L.B. Russell, who passed away in November, helped generations of BIPOC students become medical professionals. Editor's Eye | Research | March 5, 2022 Power of innovation A new UW facility will bring together scientists, engineers and students to develop clean-energy solutions for a healthy planet and a sustainable future. Campus News | Husky History | March 4, 2022 Show us the Shell House Efforts to preserve and renovate the historic ASUW Shell House on the Montlake Cut continue full speed ahead. Alumni | Books | March 4, 2022 Autism in the spotlight Actor Mickey Rowe's book chronicles his journey from a legally blind self-described outcast to the hero of his own story.   Alumni | Art | March 5, 2022 ‘You Deserve the World’ Ally Ang is a 2021 graduate of the UW Master of Fine Arts program in creative writing, with a focus on poetry. Alumni | Uncategorized | May 3, 2022 Honoring Frank Irigon Frank Irigon, noted social and civil rights activist, will be honored with the 2022 Charles E. Odegaard award. Alumni | Campus News | Community | May 16, 2022 UW’s new regent, Leonard Forsman, ’87, looks ahead Leonard Forsman, '87, is the UW's new regent. He tells Viewpoint his goals and priorities for his six-year term. Faculty & Staff | Social Sciences | March 5, 2022 Living through history UW history professor Margaret O’Mara shares her perspective on the pandemic and its echoes from the past. Community | Features | People | Students | May 4, 2022 Beloved communities College of Built Environments students help historically Black churches survive gentrification. Alumni | Arts & Entertainment | Obituaries | May 17, 2022 One who dared A gifted actor and director—and one of "The Five Who Dared"—Harvy Blanks made history. Alumni | Books | Features | March 5, 2022 The voice of Yakima Valley While working on her doctorate, Monica De La Torre, ’16, studied the Yakima Valley's Radio Cadena. She shares their stories in “Feminista Frequencies." Faculty & Staff | Uncategorized | May 16, 2022 Toward a more diverse faculty A new campus-wide effort led by Alexes Harris supports underrepresented groups and first-generation faculty. Campus Life | Campus News | May 16, 2022 Care Package Community The UW Champions Program was established in 2011 to serve former foster youth. Recent expansions help students who experienced unaccompanied homelessness as youth. In Print Current Issue March 2022 View PDF of the current print magazine Campus Life, Community, Features, Husky History The Kelly ECC at 50 Once a student activist’s dream, the Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center celebrates five decades as a space for diversity and inclusion. March 2022 Issue News 50 years of equal rights In 1972, Washington became one of the earlier states to ratify a gender equity amendment. March 2022 Issue Community, Letters, Students Where our voices are heard Mustapha Samateh, president of the ASUW, reflects on his journey from Gambia to the UW. March 2022 Issue Campus Life, Students Fungi friendly The Northwest is the perfect place for a mushroom enthusiast; one digs into the Burke Museum’s collection. March 2022 Issue Alumni, Husky History, Sports Sweet success Carlton Olson, ’61, overcame Type 1 diabetes to play 4 years of Husky baseball. March 2022 Issue Alumni, News Native leader joins Regents As a UW regent, Leonard Forsman plans to help represent Indigenous people. March 2022 Issue Alumni, Faculty & Staff Caring for custodians Evalynn Fae Taganna Romano, ’10, ’21, leads an effort recognize an often overlooked group in the pandemic: campus custodians. March 2022 Issue Art, Campus Life Biodiversity in a box Nature photographer David Liittschwager captures biodiversity in one cubic foot of space. March 2022 Issue Campus Life Galaxy gazing The Manastash Ridge, a basalt plateau that runs between Ellensburg and Yakima, is home to the UW’s 50-year-old observatory. March 2022 Issue Uncategorized From Eastern WA to the 9th Circuit Judge Sal Mendoza, ’94, made history by becoming the first Hispanic judge from Washington to serve on the U.S. 9th Circuit Court of Appeals. June 2022 issue Faculty & Staff, People Behind the scenes Tres Tracy Ballon, '01, is the master carpenter at the UW School of Drama. We talked to her about squirrels, big ideas and building sets (and boats). March 2022 Issue Campus Life, Campus News, Students Why we love the ECC As the ECC celebrates 50 years of creating a space for diversity and inclusion, alumni share fond memories of the space. Viewpoint Magazine Sports Huskies eye Pac-12 tourney Innovation will meet the crack of the bat this spring when the inaugural Pac-12 Baseball Tournament is held May 25-29 in Arizona. March 2022 Issue Sports Foreign flourish The Husky men’s tennis team has high hopes this spring, thanks in part to the play of junior Clement Chidekh of Lyon, France. March 2022 Issue Sports First on the floor Amara Cunningham leads the UW gymnastics team after being named All-Pac-12 Floor First Team as a junior. March 2022 Issue Social Sciences, Solutions Mental-health advice The pandemic has taken a toll on the mental health of young people. A UW and Harvard University study found that adequate sleep, a daily routine and limited screen time could help. March 2022 Issue Research, STEM Tech can be tricky A pilot project will establish a public-interest technology clinic to serve local community organizations and governments. March 2022 Issue Community, Husky History One momentous week In the span of seven days in November 1961, civil-rights icon Martin Luther King Jr. and President John F. Kennedy spoke on campus. March 2022 Issue Obituaries Mentor to many Millie L.B. Russell, who passed away in November, helped generations of BIPOC students become medical professionals. March 2022 Issue Editor's Eye, Research Power of innovation A new UW facility will bring together scientists, engineers and students to develop clean-energy solutions for a healthy planet and a sustainable future. March 2022 Issue Campus News, Husky History Show us the Shell House Efforts to preserve and renovate the historic ASUW Shell House on the Montlake Cut continue full speed ahead. March 2022 Issue Alumni, Books Autism in the spotlight Actor Mickey Rowe's book chronicles his journey from a legally blind self-described outcast to the hero of his own story.   March 2022 Issue Alumni, Art ‘You Deserve the World’ Ally Ang is a 2021 graduate of the UW Master of Fine Arts program in creative writing, with a focus on poetry. March 2022 Issue Faculty & Staff, Social Sciences Living through history UW history professor Margaret O’Mara shares her perspective on the pandemic and its echoes from the past. March 2022 Issue Research, Students Dinosaur dreams Zeke Augustine, ’23, has sifted through soil for microscopic fossils and helped dig up a Triceratops. The Burke Museum has been at the heart of it all. March 2022 Issue Alumni, Books, Features The voice of Yakima Valley While working on her doctorate, Monica De La Torre, ’16, studied the Yakima Valley's Radio Cadena. She shares their stories in “Feminista Frequencies." March 2022 Issue People Supporting diversity Meet the 2022 recipients of the Multicultural Alumni Partnership awards. Viewpoint Magazine Mentor to many Millie L.B. Russell, who passed away in November, helped generations of BIPOC students become medical professionals. March 2022 Issue Autism in the spotlight Actor Mickey Rowe's book chronicles his journey from a legally blind self-described outcast to the hero of his own story.   March 2022 Issue Solutions Caring for custodians Evalynn Fae Taganna Romano, ’10, ’21, leads an effort recognize an often overlooked group in the pandemic: campus custodians. March 2022 Issue Biodiversity in a box Nature photographer David Liittschwager captures biodiversity in one cubic foot of space. March 2022 Issue Tech can be tricky A pilot project will establish a public-interest technology clinic to serve local community organizations and governments. March 2022 Issue Media 5 Things To Know About Robots From Campus Activist to City Council When Takeout Takes You Across the World UW Alumni Association Instagram UW Alumni Association Facebook @UWalum Contact the magazine About Subscribe Update your info University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA