MENU People Features Hub Solutions Arts Sports Letters Solutions May 29, 2022 Why we walk We were bipedal before we were human. But science still has much to explore about how we evolved—body and brain—to be walkers. Finishing the sequence UW researchers are contributors to the groundbreaking work of the Human Genome Project. Better sleep, better work As the pandemic reshapes how, when and where Americans work, research at the UW suggests we might want to hang on to some of the flexibility we enjoyed over the past two years. March 5, 2022 Dinosaur dreams Zeke Augustine, ’23, has sifted through soil for microscopic fossils and helped dig up a Triceratops. The Burke Museum has been at the heart of it all. Living through history UW history professor Margaret O’Mara shares her perspective on the pandemic and its echoes from the past. Power of innovation A new UW facility will bring together scientists, engineers and students to develop clean-energy solutions for a healthy planet and a sustainable future. Tech can be tricky A pilot project will establish a public-interest technology clinic to serve local community organizations and governments. Mental-health advice The pandemic has taken a toll on the mental health of young people. A UW and Harvard University study found that adequate sleep, a daily routine and limited screen time could help. February 14, 2022 The power of representation An El Paso native's journey to UW leads to a key position as the White House Deputy Cabinet Secretary — and a piece of political power. December 4, 2021 Why get a booster? Marion Pepper of the School of Medicine helps us better understand the latest COVID-19 shot. Fruity, not healthy Fruit drinks are often disguised as nutritious alternatives to soda. Researchers try to counter that narrative. Fossil finds A site in Montana yields a triceratops skull and other rare dinosaur fossils. A call to action Associate Professor Wendy Barrington, '12, brings a passion for health equity to her role as director of the Center for Anti-Racism and Community Health. Unleashing dogs’ power The UW’s Conservation Canines calls on dogs’ noses to find answers to pressing environmental questions. Opening up a new world Maynard Okereke, ’06, makes STEM topics more relatable to kids of color. Legal relief Longtime prisoners who received life and long sentences as minors benefit from a UW program that sends students and lawyers to help. License to innovate The Washington Research Foundation was founded 40 years ago to capture the value of inventions coming out of the UW. Fighting the infodemic Twisted facts, fake news and social media spoofs can turn society upside down. One UW team is working to help us through the infodemic. November 19, 2021 Starring role for research Improvements in data collection allow a UW researcher and colleagues to swiftly make new discoveries in the cosmos. September 11, 2021 Where stars are born At the UW's Friday Harbor Laboratories, scientists give sunflower sea stars a chance to shine. At a loss? UW experts explain how to distinguish between memory loss and simple forgetfulness. September 4, 2021 Hope and healing A researcher combats cancer with the help of UW doctors and tools developed by his colleagues. Crisis state Washington has a shortage of mental-health workers and high demand for treatment. The UW is at the center of efforts to turn the tide. Healthy collaboration The UW’s six health sciences schools share a mission to improve care and soon will share a new building. August 31, 2021 Land of fire and smoke Ernesto Alvarado will be the first to tell you: You can’t suppress all of a region’s fires when they’re as much a part of the ecology as its flora and fauna. June 10, 2021 Pandemic parallels Long lines for vaccines are nothing new to Darrell Salk, whose father created the polio vaccine. Green goblins The invasive European green crab is spreading, and Washington fisheries are in danger. June 7, 2021 New law of physics UW researchers have discovered a new law of fluid mechanics, a branch of physics, that will affect the future of aircraft design. June 1, 2021 Speeding up the science Curtis and Elizabeth Anderson lost their daughter to an uncommon form of cancer. Their philanthropy aims to expand research and bring hope to patients and their families. May 11, 2021 Evictions continue Washington landlords are finding ways around the pandemic-related moratoriums on evictions, and this is disproportionately affecting people of color. May 10, 2021 Vaccine equity Nationwide, we’re falling short on distributing vaccines to the communities that need it most. March 11, 2021 Aiming at COVID-19 A year after it became one of the first academic labs in the U.S. to develop a COVID-19 test, the UW Medicine Virology Lab continues to innovate in response to the pandemic. March 4, 2021 Floating robots The UW will soon be deploying a fleet of floating robots in oceans around the world. March 3, 2021 Quantum leap UW scientists work toward a revolution in computing power, and consider the side effects it would cause. December 16, 2020 Nobel laureate’s UW ties Harvey J. Alter, a UW resident in internal medicine from 1964-65, has received a Nobel Prize for his contributions to the discovery of the hepatitis C virus. UW vs. COVID-19 Recent news in the battle against COVID-19 from the UW community. Firearm study The UW is researching handgun carrying among rural adolescents, in a three-year, $1.5 million study funded by the CDC. October 13, 2020 Sweet science Kennewick native Danielle Reed forages for genetic answers after her research finds that processed food is much too sweet for the average human tastebud. September 21, 2020 Racing a pandemic Thanks to years of foresight, funding and preparation, two UW labs have been on the forefront of COVID-19 testing. September 16, 2020 Double trouble With flu season coming, doctors and public health officials worry that an outbreak of influenza in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic could wipe out our health care system. Mapping landslide risk UW engineers are developing a new mapping system to quantify landslide risk in the prone areas of Seattle Being there For many older Americans, the rhythms of every day have not just changed during the COVID-19 pandemic; they have stopped. September 11, 2020 For our health The UW is putting its combined brainpower into population health, improving lives around the world. August 14, 2020 Camping during COVID-19 We ask an infectious disease expert for advice about how to explore the great outdoors. June 25, 2020 Uneven evictions Who gets evicted in Washington? It depends on gender and race, a UW study reveals. June 24, 2020 IHME in the spotlight As the pandemic expanded across the country, IHME projections became a resource for local, regional and national leaders as they responded. June 10, 2020 The ultimate puzzle Doctoral student Emily Rabe loves puzzles. Now she's working on one with high stakes—one that could have a significant impact on our planet’s health. Language of the land Southern Lushootseed, the language spoken for generations in the Puget Sound area, is being preserved and passed on to students, thanks to Tami Hohn’s work and the Department of American Indian Studies. June 4, 2020 Her work spans oceans Jacqueline Padilla-Gamiño studies issues such as global environmental change, ocean acidification and microplastics in the ocean. May 15, 2020 Hands off the soap, briefly Hot water and soap is keeping us healthy, but it can wear down our skin. We ask a UW Medicine dermatologist for help. May 14, 2020 Dangerous cells Professor Dan Berger says incarcerated people must be freed to halt virus spread. May 4, 2020 Grant backs Indigenous vision The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation granted $1.8 million to the center to support students and research. March 30, 2020 Eye on baby's breath A UW team has used hardware similar to an Amazon Echo to create a smart speaker that detects the breathing motions of an infant’s chest. March 20, 2020 We need to talk about vehicle residency Criminalizing a form of shelter causes undue and disproportionate harm to vulnerable people. March 12, 2020 Fishing for arsenic Researchers study the movement of water and heavy metals’ impact on aquatic life in lakes near Tacoma. March 10, 2020 Under the influence What effect does a parent's marijuana use have on kids? We asked a UW researcher. For an informed public The UW's Center for an Informed Public is a response to the rise in disinformation and erosion of trust in our most basic societal institutions. December 26, 2019 A whale of a problem Frank Erickson created a synthetic sperm whale oil that saved millions of automatic transmissions worldwide. December 4, 2019 Seeing himself in the science Ecologist Christopher Schell believes that tapping into who he is as a person makes his research better. December 3, 2019 Happy hints Recommendations from social psychologist Tabitha Kirkland, whose research explores strategies that nurture our happiness. December 1, 2019 A tern for the worse Feeding the wrong food to chicks could spell disaster for several species of terns. November 24, 2019 Calling all dogs A UW-led study is recruiting 10,000 canines and their companions for a study of dogs’ health as they age. September 10, 2019 Protecting life in Cambodia Climate change threatens fish runs and the livelihood and food resources for millions of Cambodians. September 2, 2019 Warming sea A die-off points to a larger-scale, longer-term problem with the food supply caused by warming seas. June 4, 2019 Fossil flosser Some might find the work of dusting and dabbing sand away from a fossil tedious, but Jean Primozich still marvels at it. Inventing the future The UW's Gates Center is a ‘new landmark’ for computer science and engineering. June 3, 2019 Energy’s new wave Converting ocean waves into electricity poses challenges—and promise. June 2, 2019 World of worry A new book by UW faculty explores anxiety-provoking topics ranging from food safety to mobile phones and bedbugs. April 18, 2019 History keepers Creating historical records, archiving photos, recording oral histories—it’s all in a program of UW Libraries with the Ethnic Heritage Council. March 12, 2019 Abolished How UW research convinced our state's highest court to toss out the death penalty. March 1, 2019 Busier bees Using teeny, tiny batteries and sensors, insects provide a valuable eye in the sky for agriculture. Natural elixir Spending time outside is a sure-fire way to feel better. But researchers still don't know why that is. November 30, 2018 Safe travels Author and traveler Chris Sanford shares 10 bits of wisdom from his book, “Staying Healthy Abroad: A Global Traveler’s Guide.” Tech for mental health UW Medicine researchers are exploring how a smartphone might help someone manage a severe mental illness such as schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. August 30, 2018 New biologies Nature is an interconnected web of life. A new Life Sciences building takes that to heart. August 29, 2018 Have a say, your way A UW summer camp helps teens who stutter find their voices. August 26, 2018 Sharks spin a tale Great white sharks dive deep into the Atlantic’s clockwise-spinning warm-water whirlpools. August 6, 2018 Diabetes nation We talk about the state of diabetes with Ira Hirsch, the UW’s Diabetes Treatment and Teaching Chair. Soldier Shakespeare Acting out the Bard’s works enables veterans to access feelings of rage, isolation and grief— and heal the invisible wounds of war. Shooting for the stars For 40 years, a group of Seattle-area women has helped UW students strive to be the best in science and engineering. June 22, 2018 The Innovation File: A study in persistence Dennis Edmondson, ’80, ’13, invented the studs inside the Nanoengineering & Sciences Building. June 5, 2018 Coffee with a twist of tech Paul Tupper, ’14, started Onda Origins, a Seattle-based coffee company with a technological spin, to further his environmental agenda. June 4, 2018 Rethinking drugs Ingrid Walker wants to change the way media and government frame our perceptions about illicit drugs, and the people who use them. No easy tusk Marine biologist Kristin Laidre is living her dream of studying narwhals, the mysterious 2,000-pound mammals that are notoriously tricky to find. Drug price isn't right There’s a new blockbuster drug that could save the lives of thousands of people with type 2 diabetes in the U.S. April 5, 2018 International problem solvers Outside of the classroom, UW engineering students solve problems around the world. Genetic fortune telling Thanks to services such as 23andMe, genetics has gone mainstream. But should you believe the hype? March 26, 2018 From playdough to Plato Children are by nature philosophical thinkers—ready to take on heady topics like race, fairness and human rights. March 13, 2018 New point of view Lisa Zurk, ’95, will be the first woman to lead the Applied Physics Laboratory. March 6, 2018 Cyber safe Stefan Savage, ’02, earned a MacArthur "genius" grant for his work on cyber security. March 5, 2018 Stop the bleed It only takes a few minutes to bleed to death, but bystanders with a little knowledge can save lives. March 4, 2018 The man who made us look Psychology professor Anthony Greenwald developed the Implicit Association Test, a rapid-fire survey that reveals the biases that lurk inside us. January 9, 2018 Rural rescue Connecting UW Medicine research to primary care clinics around the region. December 28, 2017 Forging new links A new type of fire-resistant wood reduces atmospheric carbon and can be made of damaged trees. Could it revive depressed economies in Washington’s rural timber communities? December 15, 2017 The puzzle of aging Building on decades of research and outreach, UW experts are piecing together new ways to live longer and better. December 11, 2017 History lessons After Charlottesville clash, a history professor heard echoes of an ugly era. December 8, 2017 Engineering on the brain Doctors, engineers and other experts work together at the UW Center for Sensorimotor Neural Engineering. December 7, 2017 The opioid boom The prevailing practice for treating addiction to painkillers led to the worst man-made epidemic in modern medical history. September 28, 2017 Dyslexia, defeated My alma mater helped my daughter become a reader. Understanding homelessness "It's a symptom of a bigger disease of our society." UW Alumni Association Instagram UW Alumni Association Facebook @UWalum Contact the magazine About Subscribe Update your info University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA