Homepage Open in app Sign inGet started We Are Marquette Stories from the Marquette University community Archive Study Abroad Photography Magazine Podcasts Español Marquette.edu FollowFollowing Zoë Comerford checks in Zoë Comerford checks in Recent alumna Zoë Comerford is putting her degree to work and making a difference in her new role as a Social Media Producer with CBS… Diederich College of Communication Apr 14 Maaz Ahmed receives prestigious scholarship award for future BIPOC theatre-makers Maaz Ahmed receives prestigious scholarship award for future BIPOC theatre-makers Senior Maaz Ahmed has been named one of ten recipients of the Broadway Advocacy Coalitions’ Cody Renard Richard Scholarship. Dedicated to… Diederich College of Communication Feb 23 The power of pear The power of pear How a fruit-shaped brain tumor halted Jeannie Gaffigan’s fast and funny life — and taught her how to really live. Marquette University Apr 21, 2021 An academic, personal and professional homecoming: Joshua-Paul Miles An academic, personal and professional homecoming: Joshua-Paul Miles A native of our hometown Milwaukee and alumnus of the Diederich College, we are pleased to share that Joshua Paul Miles will be joining our… Diederich College of Communication Apr 18 Alumni Spotlight: Tiffani Mitchell Alumni Spotlight: Tiffani Mitchell My name is Tiffani Mitchell, and I am currently a Client Partner at Meta, the company formerly known as Facebook 😊 I graduated from… Diederich College of Communication Feb 10 Worldwide internship, right here in Milwaukee Worldwide internship, right here in Milwaukee My name is Jaiden Schueller, and I am a junior public relations and corporate communication major here at Marquette! I am from Belgium… Diederich College of Communication Feb 16 Marquette Bookshelf: On the Vocation of the Educator in This Moment Marquette Bookshelf: On the Vocation of the Educator in This Moment Edited by Dr. Jennifer S. Maney, director of Marquette University’s Center for Teaching and Learning, and Dr. Melissa M. Shew, visiting… Marquette University Nov 22, 2021 Latest What’s up next for Dan Avington What’s up next for Dan Avington We are celebrating the #classof2022 as they go out into the world to #bethedifference! Read on to hear more about Dan Avington’s next… Diederich College of Communication May 16 Eren Joyce Heads West Eren Joyce Heads West Eren Joyce, a senior graduating this spring, will spend this summer with Fraggles and Muppets, working as children’s programming… Diederich College of Communication May 11 Student Spotlight: Alyssa Tobisch Student Spotlight: Alyssa Tobisch My name is Alyssa Tobisch. My pronouns are she/her/hers. I am a senior at Marquette, studying communication studies with a minor in… Diederich College of Communication Mar 30 Alumni Spotlight: Joshua Arter Alumni Spotlight: Joshua Arter My name is Joshua Arter. I graduated in 2012 with a bachelors degree in advertising. I grew up throughout the Midwest staying in Minnesota… Diederich College of Communication Mar 25 Alumni Spotlight: Jim Cosgrove Alumni Spotlight: Jim Cosgrove Hello! My name is Jim Cosgrove and I am an author and musician from Kansas City. I graduated Marquette in 1987 and studied journalism. To… Diederich College of Communication Mar 10 Junior Kaylee Staral wins one of four Wisconsin Broadcasters Association scholarships Junior Kaylee Staral wins one of four Wisconsin Broadcasters Association scholarships My name is Kaylee Staral, and I’m a junior at Marquette majoring in journalism with minors in digital media and communication studies. I’m… Diederich College of Communication Mar 1 About We Are MarquetteLatest StoriesArchiveAbout MediumTermsPrivacy