MENU People Features Hub Solutions Arts Sports Letters Faculty & Staff May 29, 2022 Media man For the past 31 years, Jeff Bechthold has worked in sports information for the UW athletic department. He handles Husky football and crew. May 25, 2022 Champion of opportunities Michael Verchot receives the 2022 UWAA Distinguished Service Award for his work on behalf of the UW Consulting and Business Development Center. Commemorating Ken Sirotnik Ken Sirotnik's legacy remains strong nearly two decades after his death. The UWAA honors him with the 2022 Distinguished Teaching Legacy Award. Community champion For his dedication to the UW and Chicano/a/Latino/a communities, Erasmo Gamboa receives the 2022 Retiree Excellence in Community Service Award. May 16, 2022 Toward a more diverse faculty A new campus-wide effort led by Alexes Harris supports underrepresented groups and first-generation faculty. March 18, 2022 Behind the scenes Tres Tracy Ballon, '01, is the master carpenter at the UW School of Drama. We talked to her about squirrels, big ideas and building sets (and boats). March 5, 2022 Living through history UW history professor Margaret O’Mara shares her perspective on the pandemic and its echoes from the past. March 4, 2022 Caring for custodians Evalynn Fae Taganna Romano, ’10, ’21, leads an effort recognize an often overlooked group in the pandemic: campus custodians. December 11, 2021 Locally grown Marie Spiker is an assistant professor of epidemiology at the UW School of Public Health, registered dietitian and enthusiastic kayaker. We asked her about her various passions. December 4, 2021 Why get a booster? Marion Pepper of the School of Medicine helps us better understand the latest COVID-19 shot. Fruity, not healthy Fruit drinks are often disguised as nutritious alternatives to soda. Researchers try to counter that narrative. Stepping up Dance students and faculty once again get a chance to strut their stuff. Why grad school works Graduate education is more than a ticket to a better future; it’s an engine for the public good. A call to action Associate Professor Wendy Barrington, '12, brings a passion for health equity to her role as director of the Center for Anti-Racism and Community Health. Opening up a new world Maynard Okereke, ’06, makes STEM topics more relatable to kids of color. Fighting the infodemic Twisted facts, fake news and social media spoofs can turn society upside down. One UW team is working to help us through the infodemic. November 19, 2021 Remembering the Spratlens Thaddeus Spratlen and Lois Price-Spratlen were the UW’s academic power couple—excelling as scholars and opening up opportunities for others. September 11, 2021 Friend to veterans Dentistry professor Theresa Cheng leads a nonprofit organization that connects veterans with resources and employment opportunities. Eyes on the goal Sociology Professor Alexes Harris, ’97, works closely with UW Athletics to help student-athletes succeed. September 4, 2021 Hope and healing A researcher combats cancer with the help of UW doctors and tools developed by his colleagues. August 31, 2021 A distinguished legacy Thaddeus Spratlen was a trailblazing business educator, a prolific scholar, a mentor and role model for generations of students. Land of fire and smoke Ernesto Alvarado will be the first to tell you: You can’t suppress all of a region’s fires when they’re as much a part of the ecology as its flora and fauna. July 22, 2021 A fresh lens on QTPOC life Through feature films, groundbreaking documentaries and shorts, a UW librarian creates a canon of meaningful representation in American cinema. June 21, 2021 Professors nonpareil One year into remote learning, these seven distinguished scholars kept class as fresh and relevant as ever. Find a seat and meet your 2021 Distinguished Teachers of the Year. June 14, 2021 Fond farewells As we celebrate 12,000 new University of Washington graduates, we also have the special opportunity to honor three academic leaders who are retiring. June 10, 2021 A shot at better care To get vaccines into arms in underserved communities, we need to meet people where they are, Pharmacy Professor Don Downing writes. Bridging the distance UW faculty members used innovative approaches to teaching hands-on courses during the pandemic. May 11, 2021 High-flying professor Cecilia Aragon’s memoir, “Flying Free,” is for “anybody who has been discouraged all their life,” she says. May 10, 2021 Diversity takes work In the recent years, the UW has seen the highest racial and gender diversity among students in its history, “and yet we have fallen short on our faculty diversity efforts." March 13, 2021 Surveying the Native art of the Pacific Northwest Here's what it's like to be a student in the University of Washington's class about Indigenous art. March 11, 2021 Helen Chu honored University of Washington Medicine professor Dr. Helen Chu, ’12, “Washingtonian of the Year” by the Washington State Leadership Board. Native knowledge Native art is prominent in the life of Miranda Belarde-Lewis, an assistant professor in the University of Washington Information School. March 9, 2021 Don’t be a spreader Some advice about the kind of misinformation you may see in the coming months about COVID-19 vaccines and some tools to stop its spread. March 4, 2021 Our climate future is now Scientists spent decades warning us about what would happen during the 2020s and 2030s. Now we see it. Digital dynamo UW Libraries has undertaken a massive effort to expand access to digital resources and develop programs that teach students and faculty skills for research in a digital age. December 16, 2020 A year to remember Historians and information experts encourage us to preserve our memories and mementos so future generations might understand this exceptional time. December 7, 2020 Scholar and mentor After earning his doctorate, Christopher Beasley established the Husky Post-Prison Research Lab. November 29, 2020 For many UW retirees, service never stops Retiring from the UW doesn’t end the story for faculty and staff. They are driven to serve their communities on a local or global scale. November 12, 2020 A new face teaches American portraiture Assistant Professor Juliet Sperling, pictured here, began teaching American art history at the University of Washington this fall. She took us on a tour of U.S. history by looking at 18 portraits over four centuries. September 30, 2020 Campus ambassador Our sketchbook profiles Alice Lee, manager of the UW Visitors Center. September 16, 2020 Book takes honors A book by UW Tacoma Assistant Professor Emily Thuma won the 2020 Lambda Literary Award for LGBT Studies. Being there For many older Americans, the rhythms of every day have not just changed during the COVID-19 pandemic; they have stopped. September 11, 2020 Beauty by all accounts To experience the true beauty of the University of Washington’s Seattle campus, look no further than the photographs of Loyd Heath. Values and victories Jennifer Cohen started working at the UW athletic department in 1998 and was promoted to athletic director in 2016. Our lives, disrupted We asked three UW experts—a historian, a leader in education and an expert in infectious disease—how we might use this time of challenge and change to plan for a better future. August 21, 2020 Make fine art with a UW professor, from his kitchen to yours The chair of UW’s Printmaking Program designed a popular new class during the pandemic, stamping out doubt about how effective remote learning can be. August 4, 2020 Stars in her eyes Astronomer Emily Levesque’s new book shares the wonder of stargazing—and the adventures it’s taken her on. June 26, 2020 Radical listening Ralina Joseph, professor of communication and director of the UW Center for Communication, Difference, and Equity, is leading exercises in “radical listening." June 14, 2020 Impact from afar The UW faculty are impactful even when they find themselves having to venture into uncomfortable territory. They “flatten the curve” while still producing and disseminating knowledge. June 11, 2020 Screen gems Sheltering in place against the novel coronavirus prevented us from photographing our Teachers of the Year as we always do—in person. So we captured them the way students saw them during spring quarter. June 4, 2020 Her work spans oceans Jacqueline Padilla-Gamiño studies issues such as global environmental change, ocean acidification and microplastics in the ocean. Stat keeper Craig Heyamoto, ’75, ’78, has compiled stats for UW football and basketball since the 1970s. Today, he is in charge of the UW stats crew. The joy of rereading Like a good friendship, your relationship with a book can become richer as you get to know it better. Ahead of the curve Fast, accurate COVID-19 testing quickly went into effect here, thanks to the heroic efforts of UW Medicine faculty and staff. May 14, 2020 Dangerous cells Professor Dan Berger says incarcerated people must be freed to halt virus spread. May 12, 2020 Vision for indigenizing Charlotte Coté, this year’s Samuel E. Kelly Distinguished Faculty Lecturer, offers her thoughts on weaving Native understanding into the fabric of the UW. May 4, 2020 Grant backs Indigenous vision The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation granted $1.8 million to the center to support students and research. March 30, 2020 Bonjour, Paris Meredith Clausen, an architectural historian, shares her Paris apartments with UW scholars. March 24, 2020 Hummingbird man What makes hummingbirds so fascinating? We asked UW expert Alejandro Rico-Guevara. March 10, 2020 For an informed public The UW's Center for an Informed Public is a response to the rise in disinformation and erosion of trust in our most basic societal institutions. December 4, 2019 Seeing himself in the science Ecologist Christopher Schell believes that tapping into who he is as a person makes his research better. December 3, 2019 Happy hints Recommendations from social psychologist Tabitha Kirkland, whose research explores strategies that nurture our happiness. November 24, 2019 Building the bones Chip Lydum, ’84, parlayed a journalism job into a prominent role in Husky athletics. Becoming a Husky The University of Washington's admissions process is vetted and values-driven to produce a talented, diverse student body. Legacy of ‘No-No Boy’ Decades ago, he built a foundation for Asian American literature; now, a UW professor is still protecting an alumnus’s classic novel. September 2, 2019 Saving time Benefits to daylight saving time? Let me shine some light on the ways it makes life better. June 3, 2019 House Party We partied like students with the winners of the 2019 Distinguished Teaching Awards. Energy’s new wave Converting ocean waves into electricity poses challenges—and promise. April 20, 2019 The ways we see Professor Stephanie Fryberg draws on her own life to build support for Indigenous children March 12, 2019 Abolished How UW research convinced our state's highest court to toss out the death penalty. December 7, 2018 Thanks, Professor Banks ‘The Father of Multicultural Education’ is retiring after 50 years. December 1, 2018 Powerhouses of poetry Over the last half century, some of the greatest poets have come to the UW to perform their works. November 30, 2018 Give Me 5: Michael Callahan Michael Callahan rowed for UW from 1992-96, competed in the ’04 Olympics and has coached the men’s crew team since 2007. October 10, 2018 Beyond the confines of campus A faculty leader shares her view of the future. October 4, 2018 Seattle’s public policy professor Remembering scholar, civic leader and former dean Hubert Locke. June 4, 2018 Best lesson ever What if your class schedule put you in a room with all of this year's best teachers? Rethinking drugs Ingrid Walker wants to change the way media and government frame our perceptions about illicit drugs, and the people who use them. March 4, 2018 The man who made us look Psychology professor Anthony Greenwald developed the Implicit Association Test, a rapid-fire survey that reveals the biases that lurk inside us. September 14, 2017 Drama king Tim Bond, '83, returns to the School of Drama as a professor. August 31, 2017 The Cole role model The UW proudly presents Bill Cole with the inaugural Distinguished Teaching Legacy Award. July 28, 2017 'A genuine citizen' Roger Sale was one of those professors who changed lives. June 19, 2017 Campus groomer "I would have laughed hysterically if you told me 20 years ago I’d be doing this." June 1, 2017 Of the highest grade Celebrating the 2017 teachers of the year. May 23, 2017 World of difference From mentoring students to training allies, faculty of color can measure their success in many ways. February 26, 2017 Jacob Lawrence at 100 From his debut in the New York art scene in the 1930s, Jacob Lawrence explored the everyday conditions of the African American working class. September 1, 2016 Introducing Shwetak Patel He's one of the brightest thinkers you'll ever meet. Writer Julie Garner pays him a house call and confirms that, yes, he puts his inventions and gadgets to work, but she finds out a whole lot more. Personal question Amelia Gavin’s great-grandmother lost two sets of twins in their infancies, a fact that haunts the social scientist as she studies the relationships of race, depression, stress and disparities in babies’ health at birth. June 1, 2016 Fueled by a liberal arts education “I’m always looking for ways to show the value of a liberal arts education for thinking critically, connecting the dots.” Best of the best They play racquetball. Were college DJs. Starred in Alice in Wonderland. Love to paraglide, run, cook, write and travel. Here’s your chance to meet our teachers of the year. Crossing the aisle to save lives UW faculty member Jennifer Stuber is part of a bipartisan effort to prevent suicides. March 1, 2016 Give Me 5 The oldest of six girls, the former basketball player helps student-athletes — from the burliest linebacker to the tiniest gymnast — deal with life, sports and school. War is sexy. Huh? David Shields, author, essayist and UW English professor, takes the New York Times to task in his book, "War Is Beautiful." Saadia Pekkanen watches for threats above the sky The Jackson School's associate director says space security depends on international cooperation. December 1, 2015 An unprecedented president She is the first woman, first Latina and the first in a long while to be promoted from within to lead the University of Washington. Character: Elise Ray She had a rough time at the Olympics, but she recovered to help young athletes succeed. 'Scarface' found A team of scientists has identified a new species of “pre-mammal” based on fossils unearthed in Zambia’s Luangwa Basin in 2009. Its discoverers include Christian Sidor, UW professor of biology and curator of vertebrate paleontology at the Burke Museum. Filthy friends Geomorphologist David Montgomery finds the dirt is full of friendly germs. September 1, 2015 The CoMotion Commitment While the UW is known for its groundbreaking research, it has not been perceived as spry or supportive in leveraging the expertise of its faculty. Vikram Jandhyala has set out to change that. Relationships first Genetic ethicist Wylie Burke keeps people in mind as she studies advances in medicine and public health. June 1, 2015 Top teachers They walk into a classroom that is filled with a sea of anxious faces. Expectations run high. They take a deep breath and off they go—the process of molding students into scholars is what teachers do everyday. With the greatest of ease? Hardly. Only some have the chops to rise above the rest. Introducing this year’s best of the best. UW Alumni Association Instagram UW Alumni Association Facebook @UWalum Contact the magazine About Subscribe Update your info University of Washington Be boundless Connect with us: Facebook Twitter Instagram Tumblr YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest Vine Google+ Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms © 2022 University of Washington | Seattle, WA