Columbia Business Magazine Logo Home Research Alumni At CBS The Magazine of Columbia Business School Winter 2021 Features Bridging the Great Divide A popular course seeks to understand the roots of polarization in America, and train future business leaders to heal the rift. Reimagine: The Innovation Salon Professor Sheena Iyengar’s new course reimagines the post-pandemic normal. In Brief Manhattanville Campus: One Year Away January 24, 2021, marked the one-year countdown to the first day of classes in the School’s new home on the Manhattanville campus. Designed to foster a sense of collaboration and openness, the two state-of-the-art buildings double the School’s current square footage and feature flexible spaces and leading technology to serve the fast-paced future of business education. Follow our journey to the opening and take a virtual tour. The Phillips Pathway for Inclusive Leadership Makes Diversity a Priority The new program is designed to help students understand and appreciate diversity. Authority on Workplace Diversity Appointed Faculty Director of the Bernstein Center for Leadership and Ethics Professor Modupe Akinola will build on the work of Katherine Phillips, a pioneer in studying the benefits of diversity. Management Expert Appointed Reuben Mark Faculty Director of Organizational Character and Leadership Longtime professor Todd Jick specializes in teaching organizations to manage change. HyFlex Teaching Gives CBS Students a Campus Experience Despite Pandemic A mix of in-person and virtual learning allows students to connect with faculty and classmates. Leadership Speaker Series Offers a Glimpse Into the Minds of Business Leaders The weekly virtual series welcomes CEOs and founders to the School for compelling conversations. New App Aims to Keep CBS Alumni Connected MyCBS offers alumni directory, job listings, School news, and more. CBS has launched a new app and online community platform designed to help alumni strengthen their network, access the latest in thought leadership, and stay connected to the Business School. With a robust set of features, MyCBS serves as a one-stop shop for alumni. Unveiled this fall, MyCBS offers a searchable directory of alumni as well as links to job postings. It allows users to find nearby CBS events that offer lifelong learning and other opportunities to network with alumni. The app will also include everything from news and information from regional clubs and affinity groups to updates from Columbia Business School’s centers and programs. In the coming months, the platform will begin including students, further expanding MyCBS as a resource for the community. You can learn more about MyCBS and become a member here. On Campus Photography: Laura Lechner Inside The Classroom Management Professor Dan Wang teaches his Strategy Formulation course—in person and virtually. The Business School moved to a HyFlex teaching model in the fall, allowing small groups of students to attend class in person while the rest log in on Zoom. The groups rotate, so every student who wants to has a chance to mask up and experience class in Uris Hall. Publications Alumni Jamie Kern Lima ’04, Believe IT: How to Go from Underestimated to Unstoppable (Gallery Books, 2021) Christin Brecher ’95, 15 Minutes of Flame (Kensington, 2020) Meyer Feldberg ’65, dean emeritus, No Finish Line: Lessons On Life and Career (Columbia University Press, 2020) Jack Florentin ’75 (’70SEAS, ’72SEAS), Angels, Elephants and Ants (Black Rose Writing, 2019) Emily McHugh ’99, The Little Girl's Guide to Entrepreneurship: What I Know Now That I Sure Wish I Knew Then (St. Ann’s Press, 2017) Todd Miller ’94, ENRICH: Create Wealth in Time, Money, and Meaning (Lioncrest Publishing, 2020) Robert F. Reilly ’76 (‘75CC) and Robert P. Schweihs, Best Practices: Thought Leadership in Valuation, Damages, and Transfer Price Analysis (Valuation Products & Services, 2019) Karam Sethi ’21, Digital Storytelling: The Rise of Personal Narratives (New Degrees Press, 2021) Stephen Weintraub ’76, Save Our Schools … and America too (KGD Press, 2019) Faculty Joseph Stiglitz, University Professor, Economics, Rewriting the Rules of the European Economy: An Agenda for Growth and Shared Prosperity (W.W. Norton, 2020) JP Kuehlwein, adjunct assistant professor, Marketing, and Wolfgang Schaefer, Brand Elevation: Lessons in Ueber-Branding (Kogan Page, 2021) Joseph Stiglitz, University Professor, Economics, People, Power, and Profits: Progressive Capitalism for an Age of Discontent (W.W. Norton, 2020) Columbia Business School Publishing Rizwan Virk, Startup Myths and Models (Columbia Business School Publishing, 2020) Gautam Baid, The Joys of Compounding (Columbia Business School Publishing, 2020) Lawrence A. Cunningham and Stephanie Cuba, Margin of Trust (Columbia Business School Publishing, 2020) R. Edward Freeman, Kirsten E. Martin, and Bidhan L. Parmar, The Power of And (Columbia Business School Publishing, 2020) Hans Hansen, Narrative Change (Columbia Business School Publishing, 2020) To have your recent book listed in the next issue of Columbia Business magazine, please email columbiabusiness@gsb.columbia.edu. Columbia Business Magazine Logo Dean Costis Maglaras Vice Dean for External Relations and Development Beth Brown Executive Director of Strategic Communications Meredith Halpern Editor Abigail Beshkin Writer Sara Cravatts Design Landesberg Design Editorial Office columbiabusiness@gsb.columbia.edu Columbia Business School LinkedIn Columbia Business School Twitter Columbia Business School Facebook Columbia Business Magazine Logo Home Research Alumni At CBS Privacy Policy