Skip to main content Colorado State University mail.rams.colostate.edu Toggle navigation Home Create an Account Storage Limits Help Connecting Transfer Old Content Course Schedule Import Other Help Log in to Google Apps (Close your browser when done!) Unlimited Google Storage is Ending Google is changing its storage policy, affecting Gmail/Drive/Photos usage in our Rams domain. To preserve this important service for the university, please start looking at how much Drive and other storage you use today. Individual Storage Limits of 25 gigabytes per account will be imposed in October. Please visit the storage page at https://eid.colostate.edu/gmail/storage.aspx to review your current usage and delete any unnecessary files in Drive, Shared Drives, Gmail, and Photos. And please take note: while unlimited storage is ending, Rams accounts (and their functions) will remain for all! An Explanation of University Email Accounts Google Apps (@Rams) and Office 365 Each person at CSU has one Official University Email Account, either in Exchange/Office 365 or Google Apps. Your Official University Email is the address used by academic advisors, financial aid, human resources and more to communicate with you. When you first come to CSU, you start with one account. Since August 2018, everyone gets an Exchange/Office 365 account (which resembles firstname.lastname@colostate.edu) when they create their eID. Before that, students started with Google Apps (which look like firstname.lastname@rams.colostate.edu). Office 365 email is accessed at portal.office.com. Google Apps/@Rams accounts are accessed from this web site (and you can't log in at gmail.com). But it's okay to have an email in both systems If you have Google Apps already You can keep it and it isn't going away. You can also add a Office365 account if you want. Head over to eid.colostate.edu and choose "Email Settings" under "Modify your eID." Note! Doing this will change your Official University Email to be your new Office 365 mailbox (firstname.lastname@colostate.edu). This means your important CSU email will go to that account! But, it will not erase your Google Apps account. If you have Office 365 but want to add Google Apps Anyone can still create and use a new Google Apps account if they want to add it to their mix of services. Adding Google Apps will not change your Official University Email address, so keep checking your Office 365 email! Just log in at the link above and if you don't have an account, you can add one! How do I know which email is my Official University Email account? Visit eid.colostate.edu and choose "Show My Information" under "Modify your eID." When you leave CSU No matter if you have Office365 or Google Apps or both, your student email(s) will stay active for about 12 months after you leave the university. But then it will be permanently expired. Students who are set to graduate are given a lifetime Alumni email account (@alumni.colostate.edu) in the weeks/months before they graduate. There is also a procedure to move your Google Apps email to this new Alumni email. Other Information about Google Apps Security and Privacy Your account security and personal information is important; please review the Google Apps for CSU Privacy information page. Also see Google's privacy policy and terms of service. CSU has its own Google domain rams.colostate.edu is a Google Workspace for Education service, with all the cloud computing, productivity and collaboration tools, software and products developed by Google, like Gmail, calendaring, documents, cloud storage ("Drive"), chat, and even personal web sites. This powerful suite of applications is hosted by Google in an ad-free environment for students, faculty and staff. Do you need to email someone at CSU? Future students: Ask Admissions More contacts: Contact Information at CSU Check your Email Log in to Google Apps (Close your browser when done) Google Storage Changes Read about storage limits coming to your Rams account Getting Help Can't Log In? Contact the Tech Support Help Desk at 970-491-7276 (or email help@colostate.edu). Problems using an app? Check the Google Support website. Having loading issues or errors? Check Google's General Issues page Also see the top nav bar for help connecting your device, exporting email, and other help. Apply to CSU Contact CSU Disclaimer Equal Opportunity Privacy Statement © 2022 Colorado State University