Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Mail Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Mail Administrative Mail For Parents & Family Policies Announcements About Us Student Mail Center Sending Mail & Packages Receiving Mail & Packages Forwarding Mail Other Services Mail Tips The Administrative Mail Office Sending Mail Receiving Mail What to do when you move Other Services Forms Mail Tips Our Team Sustainability Columbia Mail You are here: Home Undergraduate Mail Receiving Mail & Packages Receiving Mail & Packages Expand all Collapse all Address Format Address The following address and format should be used for undergraduate mail. As of Fall 2021, the student's UNI will act as a mailbox number. Please enter your full UNI before "Columbia Student Mail" in the address. If you are a junior or senior who was assigned a mailbox number in prior years, it is still valid; however, you may also access your mail using your UNI in place of your mailbox number if you so choose. Student’s Full Name [Full UNI] Columbia Student Mail 70 Morningside Drive New York, NY 10027-7236 Format Web forms may vary in how your address can be submitted. Try to include your full UNI using one of the lines typically provided: either Address 1, Address 2, or Apartment. The word "box" should never be used in the address. Mail should never be sent to a student's residence hall address. The Student Mail Center is located in the lower level of Wien Hall. Mail Delivery Schedule The Student Mail Center typically receives one delivery of mail daily. All incoming mail is processed within 24 hours, excluding weekends and University holidays. All 1st class mail and small parcels are received from the USPS in a morning delivery. Mail received before 12:00 noon is available for student pickup within 24 hours. Mail received after 12:00 noon is typically available for student pickup the same day, but may not be available until the following day depending on the amount of incoming mail to be processed. Always wait for a notification from us before coming to pick up your mail. If a notification has not been received and you think your package has been delivered, please email Student Mail with the tracking number. Packages Packages are scanned upon arrival to the Student Mail Center in Wien Hall. Students are notified by email when packages are available for pick-up. If you have large or numerous packages, visit Columbia Undergraduate Housing's Hospitality Desk in Hartley Hall to borrow a moving bin prior to picking up your package(s) in the Wien Student Mail Center. If you are a current CC or SEAS student living in Columbia Housing and you require an accessible package locker as an accommodation for a disability or temporary injury, please contact Disability Services at [email protected] or 212-854-2388. Expand all Collapse all In-Room Package Delivery Prior to Fall Check-In Columbia Mail makes every effort to deliver packages to your room before you arrive on campus. Please check back later for dates that you can begin sending packages for the Fall 2022 semester. Oversized Parcels Due to storage limitations, oversized bulk items are kept for up to seven days only. After seven days these items are returned to the sender. Oversized parcels are greater than: 24" x 24" x 24" and/or more than 25lbs. Perishables Students are notified by email upon receipt of a package that is clearly marked "perishable." The Student Mail Center has limited capacity to refrigerate perishables; such deliveries are held for up to seven days, after which they are discarded. Students should ensure that packages containing perishables are properly addressed. Package Return Policy With the exception of oversized parcels and deliveries containing perishables, packages are kept for up to 14 days. If not collected within the first seven days, an email is sent to the student notifying him or her that the package is scheduled for return within seven days. Due to storage limitations, packages cannot be held any longer than prescribed. Tracking Packages To track packages delivered to or sent from the Student Mail Center, you must have the name of the shipping vendor and the tracking number. You can track your package online through the appropriate vendor: UPS FedEx DHL USPS US Post Office Consumer Affairs: 1-800-275-8777 After-Hours Lockers After-hours lockers provide access to important mail or packages when the Mail Center is closed. Lockers are located on the lower level of Wien Hall and are available upon request. How it works: Lockers are accessible only when the Student Mail Center is closed. Locker space is limited and so usage is prioritized for critical needs, such as: medication (non-perishable only, lockers are not refrigerated) time-sensitive materials (e.g. employment documents, identification) items of high value (e.g. cell phone, laptop) There are 28 lockers in total, the largest being 22x16x13.5 (LxWxH). Over-sized packages are not eligible for lockers. To request a locker, students should reply to the email notification received when mail or a package has arrived. Lockers cannot be reserved for mail or packages before they are received and processed at the Student Mail Center. Students that are unable to reach high or bend down should indicate that a mid-level locker is needed. The email request must be received by 3:00 p.m. the day the locker is needed in order to be considered. By 5:00 p.m., Student Mail will send a confirmation email with a 6-digit pin to open the locker. If the item is not picked up within 24 hours, it will be removed from the locker and returned to the Student Mail Center for pick up. The student will not receive further email notifications. Magazines and Newspapers Magazines and newspapers are held until the next issue arrives. If not claimed, the old periodical is returned to the sender. Columbia Student Mail Center Student Mail Center: Wien Hall, Lower Level Spring Hours: February 28 - May 20 Mon – Fri: 9:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. Saturday – Sunday: CLOSED Summer Hours: May 23 - September 2 Mon – Fri: 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Saturday – Sunday: CLOSED For after-hours and weekend service, please request a locker. Holiday Closings The Student Mail Center is closed in observance of the following University holidays: New Year's Day Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Election Day Thanksgiving Day The day after Thanksgiving Christmas Eve Christmas Day New Year's Eve Have Feedback? Let us know what you think using our Feedback form. [email protected] Student Mail Center (212) 854-0100Wien Hall - Lower Level, 411 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Administrative Mail Office (212) 854-9686Schermerhorn Hall, 1190 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close