Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Mail Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Mail Administrative Mail For Parents & Family Policies Announcements About Us Student Mail Center Sending Mail & Packages Receiving Mail & Packages Forwarding Mail Other Services Mail Tips The Administrative Mail Office Sending Mail Receiving Mail What to do when you move Other Services Forms Mail Tips Our Team Sustainability Columbia Mail You are here: Home Safety Protocols During COVID-19 Safety Protocols During COVID-19 The Center for Disease Control (CDC), the World Health Organization (WHO), and the Surgeon General have indicated that there is currently no evidence that COVID-19 is being spread through the mail. Protecting our staff and community is our top priority, and we have adopted the following protocols and policies to support this mission. Please continue to consult Columbia’s COVID-19 website for the latest information and for tips to reduce your personal risk. Student Mail: Staff and visitors are required to wear a face covering when entering the mail room. Signature requirements to issue packages have been temporarily eliminated. We have reduced the number of package and mail issuing stations from six to four. We have reduced the capacity at the Student Package Center to four visitors at a time; additional visitors will wait in the hallway leading to the Wien Hall lobby. We have reduced staffing to facilitate physical distancing. Administrative Mail Staff and visitors are required to wear a face covering when entering the mail room. In-person/desktop deliveries have been temporarily eliminated. Signature capture is temporarily disabled. We have reduced deliveries and pickups from twice per day to once per day. Special pickups (for large outgoing quantities of mail and packages) must be scheduled in advance. We have reduced staffing to facilitate physical distancing. Only two guests are allowed in the Administrative Mail room at the same time. As this is a fluid situation, policies and procedures are being reviewed continuously. We will update this page as changes arise. Columbia Student Mail Center Student Mail Center: Wien Hall, Lower Level Spring Hours: February 28 - May 20 Mon – Fri: 9:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. Saturday – Sunday: CLOSED Summer Hours: May 23 - September 2 Mon – Fri: 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Saturday – Sunday: CLOSED For after-hours and weekend service, please request a locker. Holiday Closings The Student Mail Center is closed in observance of the following University holidays: New Year's Day Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Election Day Thanksgiving Day The day after Thanksgiving Christmas Eve Christmas Day New Year's Eve Have Feedback? Let us know what you think using our Feedback form. [email protected] Student Mail Center (212) 854-0100Wien Hall - Lower Level, 411 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Administrative Mail Office (212) 854-9686Schermerhorn Hall, 1190 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close