Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Mail Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Mail Administrative Mail For Parents & Family Policies Announcements About Us Student Mail Center Sending Mail & Packages Receiving Mail & Packages Forwarding Mail Other Services Mail Tips The Administrative Mail Office Sending Mail Receiving Mail What to do when you move Other Services Forms Mail Tips Our Team Sustainability Columbia Mail You are here: Home Undergraduate Mail Forwarding Mail Forwarding Mail Related Forms: Mail Forwarding Request The Student Mail Center offers Columbia Housing residents mail forwarding service for 1st class USPS mail. It can take the USPS up to five weeks to deliver forwarded mail. The Student Mail Center does not forward packages; students must make arrangements with the USPS to have these forwarded. The Student Mail Center also does not forward mail delivered from private couriers; these shipments will be returned to the sender. Graduating Columbia Seniors Leave of Absence Study Abroad Summer/Winter Break Withdrawal Graduating Columbia Seniors Graduating Columbia seniors can request to have 1st class USPS mail forwarded through June 30. The deadline to submit a request for mail forwarding service is June 1. All forwarding services cease on July 1. Graduating seniors must notify the U.S. Postal Service of a change of address upon graduation. Official changes of address can be filed at any USPS branch office. The closest branch to Columbia's Morningside Campus is located at 534 W. 112th Street (between Broadway and Amsterdam). Please note that changes of address cannot be filed online and must be done at a branch office. Leave of Absence Students taking a leave of absence can request to have 1st class mail forwarded for 30 days. Mail forwarding service takes effect on the first official date of leave of absence and ceases after 30 days. Students taking a leave of absence must notify the U.S. Postal Service of a change of address. Official changes of address can be filed at any USPS branch office. The closest branch to Columbia's Morningside Campus is located at 534 W. 112th Street (between Broadway and Amsterdam). Please note that changes of address cannot be filed online and must be done at a branch office. Study Abroad Students departing on a University-approved program of study abroad can request to have 1st class USPS mail forwarded for up to two semesters. Mail forwarding service takes effect upon submission and processing of a student’s request and ceases either when the student notifies Mail of his/her return to Columbia Housing or at the end of two semesters—whichever comes first. Students must notify Columbia Mail upon their return to Columbia Housing, so that forwarding services can be terminated. Forwarding for longer than two semesters will require a Mailbox Assignment Extension Request to be submitted. Summer/Winter Break Mail forwarding is not recommended for winter break. If desired, students can request that their 1st class USPS mail be forwarded over the summer. The deadline to submit a request for mail forwarding service over the summer is June 1; mail forwarding automatically ceases on August 1. Prior to leaving campus at the end of spring semester, students are strongly encouraged to notify banks, credit card providers and other organizations that send time-sensitive material of their address change. Withdrawal Withdrawing students can request to have 1st class mail forwarded for a period of 30 days. The deadline to submit a request for mail forwarding service is seven days from the date of official withdrawal. All forwarding services end 30 days from the date of official withdrawal. Withdrawing students must notify the U.S. Postal Service of a change of address. Official changes of address can be filed at any USPS branch office. The closest branch to Columbia's Morningside Campus is located at 534 W. 112th Street (between Broadway and Amsterdam). Please note that changes of address cannot be filed online and must be done at a branch office. Columbia Student Mail Center Student Mail Center: Wien Hall, Lower Level Spring Hours: February 28 - May 20 Mon – Fri: 9:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. Saturday – Sunday: CLOSED Summer Hours: May 23 - September 2 Mon – Fri: 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Saturday – Sunday: CLOSED For after-hours and weekend service, please request a locker. Holiday Closings The Student Mail Center is closed in observance of the following University holidays: New Year's Day Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Election Day Thanksgiving Day The day after Thanksgiving Christmas Eve Christmas Day New Year's Eve Have Feedback? Let us know what you think using our Feedback form. [email protected] Student Mail Center (212) 854-0100Wien Hall - Lower Level, 411 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Administrative Mail Office (212) 854-9686Schermerhorn Hall, 1190 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close