Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Mail Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Mail Administrative Mail For Parents & Family Policies Announcements About Us Student Mail Center Sending Mail & Packages Receiving Mail & Packages Forwarding Mail Other Services Mail Tips The Administrative Mail Office Sending Mail Receiving Mail What to do when you move Other Services Forms Mail Tips Our Team Sustainability Columbia Mail You are here: Home Our Team Our Team OUR TEAM Columbia Mail provides faculty, staff and undergraduate students in the residence halls with campus mail service. The Administrative Mail team serves the administrative departments and offices of the University, including mail delivery, mail metering and bulk mailing services. The Student Mail team serves undergraduate residents of Columbia Housing and provides discounted FedEx shipment services to University affiliates out of the Student Mail Center in Wien Hall. We are committed to providing outstanding customer service to ensure community satisfaction while continuously working to improve our operations. Get to know our team and services. CONTACT US: Student Mail Center: (212) 854-0100 Administrative Mail Office: (212) 854-6576 Salvador J. Bernardino Sal Bernardino is the Bulk Mail Manager for Columbia Mail. He is responsible for coordinating the fulfillment and shipping of large volume mail jobs, as well as the messenger service. A true Columbia veteran, Sal has been employed with the University since 1968. Patricia Ables Pat is the mail contact for Lamont Doherty Earth Observatory. Miguel A. Pagan Miguel Pagan is the Executive Director of Administrative Services, charged with the leadership of Columbia Mail, Columbia Print, and Columbia Transportation. Mike provides strategic and operational oversight to these departments, with a focus on customer service, operational efficiency, and sustainable solutions. Having joined the University in 2004, Mike brings significant operational focus and expertise to the organization. He spent nearly two decades in healthcare administration, debuting in a staff position at Mt. Sinai Hospital and rising to Corporate Director of Materials Management at St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Hospital. Mauricio Farigua Mauricio Farigua joined Coumbia University in May 2016. He manages the operations of the Undergraduate Package Center. In this capacity, Mauricio oversees the processing and delivery of all mail destined to undergraduate residents of Columbia Housing, in addition to managing auxiliary courier services available to students and Columbia affiliates. Mauricio previously worked as senior manager at FedEx in New York City, focusing on shipping and logistics. Joseph Fernandez Joseph is the mail contact for Columbia University Irving Medical Center. David Ramos David Ramos helps oversee the department’s mailroom operations. Among his responsibilities, David manages mail delivery to the University community, ensuring it reaches students, staff and faculty in a timely manner. David joined Columbia in 2006 after serving as an Operating Room Tech Coordinator at St. Luke’s Hospital. Barbara Vines Barbara is the mail contact at Harlem Hospital. Sort Department Group Function Keyword filter: Filter Filter Filter Filter AllLetter Profiles, showing - Clear filtersFilterFilterFilterFilter no photo photo of edit edit Student Mail Center (212) 854-0100Wien Hall - Lower Level, 411 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Administrative Mail Office (212) 854-9686Schermerhorn Hall, 1190 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close