Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Mail Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Mail Administrative Mail For Parents & Family Policies Announcements About Us Student Mail Center Sending Mail & Packages Receiving Mail & Packages Forwarding Mail Other Services Mail Tips The Administrative Mail Office Sending Mail Receiving Mail What to do when you move Other Services Forms Mail Tips Our Team Sustainability Columbia Mail You are here: Home Administrative Mail Receiving Administrative Mail Receiving Administrative Mail Administrative Mail delivers incoming USPS mail and intercampus mail to the Morningside Heights campus, Columbia University Medical Center, and satellite locations. Most departments receive at least one mail delivery each business day. Expand all Collapse all Receiving Administrative Mail Address Format Morningside Heights Campus Incoming University mail destined to the Morningside Heights campus should be addressed in the following format. The complete street address of the applicable campus building must be included. Address listings can be found in the University directory. Columbia University Personal Name Program, Title, or Department Mail Code Street Address, Room Number New York, NY Zip Code Mail Codes Only Morningside Heights campus locations have mail codes. A mail code must be included on all incoming USPS mail. If not included, mail may be delayed or not delivered. The mail code must be written above the street address; including it elsewhere in the address may result in a misread by USPS scanning equipment and possible delays in delivery. Packages Administrative Mail delivers packages sent via the United States Postal Service (USPS); certified and registered mail requires a signature. Outside couriers such as FedEx and UPS deliver directly to offices. A delivery confirmation from the USPS only confirms delivery to the post office of the applicable zip code (i.e. the Manhattanville branch post office, for 10027); it does not confirm delivery to the University. From the date of confirmed delivery to the post office, please anticipate an additional 1-3 business days for Administrative Mail to receive and process the package. Delivery and Usage Protocols Incoming mail that is too large to fit inside a departmental mailbox is delivered directly to the department, when necessary. Certified mail and mail that requires a delivery signature is also delivered directly to the department. Misdirected mail should be placed in a campus or departmental mailbox. Personal items should not be sent to one’s departmental address. Administrative Mail is not responsible for items that do not pertain to official University business. Administrative Mail Hours and Location Administrative Mail operates from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding University holidays. The Administrative Mail Office is located in the Service Building, Room 101. To get there, enter the Schermerhorn Building (see map) and take the elevator to 2nd floor. Follow the corridor to your right, all the way to the end. You can also enter via the Engineering Terrace parking entrance at 119th Street and Amsterdam (see map). Location and Hours: Administrative Mail Office: Service Building, Room 101 Phone: 212-854-9686 Monday through Friday: 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Holiday Closings The Administrative Mail Office is closed in observance of the following University holidays: New Year's Day Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Election Day Thanksgiving Day The day after Thanksgiving Christmas Eve Christmas Day New Year's Eve Have Feedback? Let us know what you think using our Feedback form. [email protected] Student Mail Center (212) 854-0100Wien Hall - Lower Level, 411 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Administrative Mail Office (212) 854-9686Schermerhorn Hall, 1190 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close