Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Mail Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Mail Administrative Mail For Parents & Family Policies Announcements About Us Student Mail Center Sending Mail & Packages Receiving Mail & Packages Forwarding Mail Other Services Mail Tips The Administrative Mail Office Sending Mail Receiving Mail What to do when you move Other Services Forms Mail Tips Our Team Sustainability Columbia Mail You are here: Home Administrative Mail What to do when you move What to do when you move Faculty, staff and administrative departments that move to a new location on the Morningside Heights campus are assigned new mail codes. Departmental Administrators must contact Administrative Mail to coordinate reassignment. Administrative Mail must be notified at least two weeks prior to a departmental move. Failure to notify within the appropriate time frame may result in missing or delayed mail. New mail codes should not be used until a department has moved to a new location. Departments moving to a new zip code (i.e. outside 10027) should direct mail forwarding requests to the US Postal Service. For any questions regarding coordinating mail service following a move, please contact us. Directory Listing Tip Columbia staff and faculty can edit their personal contact information and change the way it appears in the online directory; visit the CUIT website for instructions. Location and Hours: Administrative Mail Office: Service Building, Room 101 Phone: 212-854-9686 Monday through Friday: 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Holiday Closings The Administrative Mail Office is closed in observance of the following University holidays: New Year's Day Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Election Day Thanksgiving Day The day after Thanksgiving Christmas Eve Christmas Day New Year's Eve Have Feedback? Let us know what you think using our Feedback form. [email protected] Student Mail Center (212) 854-0100Wien Hall - Lower Level, 411 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Administrative Mail Office (212) 854-9686Schermerhorn Hall, 1190 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close