Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Mail Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Mail Administrative Mail For Parents & Family Policies Announcements About Us Student Mail Center Sending Mail & Packages Receiving Mail & Packages Forwarding Mail Other Services Mail Tips The Administrative Mail Office Sending Mail Receiving Mail What to do when you move Other Services Forms Mail Tips Our Team Sustainability Columbia Mail You are here: Home Administrative Mail Sending Administrative Mail Sending Administrative Mail The Administrative Mail office is located in the Service Building, Room 101. Enter the Schermerhorn Building and take the elevator to the 2nd floor. Follow the corridor to your right, all the way to the end. You can also enter via the Engineering Terrace parking entrance at 119th Street and Amsterdam. Related Forms Mail Meter Request Form Expand all Collapse all Sending Administrative Mail Intercampus Mail Locations Served Administrative Mail delivers intercampus mail free of charge to all Morningside Heights campus departments. Intercampus mail is also collected for Barnard College, Harlem Hospital, Columbia University Medical Center, The Forum, Jerome L. Greene Science Center, Lamont-Doherty, Lenfest, Prentis Hall, Teachers College, Studebaker, the Nash Building and the Interchurch Center. Address Format Morningside Heights Campus Morningside Heights campus mail should be in the following format: Personal Name Program, Title, Department Building Name Mail Code Other Campuses Other University campuses, including Columbia University Medical Center, Lamont-Doherty and Harlem Hospital, do not use the the Morningside campus mail code system. Mail to these and other Columbia University locations should be in the following format: Personal Name Program, Title, Department Building Name and Room Number Street Address City, State and Zip Code Mail Codes A mail code is a four-digit number assigned to each department and office on the Morningside Heights campus. The first two digits represent the building, while the last two digits represent the department or specific location where mail is to be delivered. To find the mail code of a department, academic building or individual, visit the online University directory and search by the name of the department or an associated staff or faculty member, or contact the Department Administrator. Note that only Morningside campus locations have mail codes. Metered Mail Upon request Administrative Mail meters outgoing mail destined to off-campus locations. Requests are made by completing and appending a Mail Meter Request Form to applicable mail pieces, and are typically processed within 24 business hours. Postage fees are charged to the applicable departmental account. Outgoing mail is metered on a daily basis. Drop Procedures Domestic mail must be bundled separately from international mail. Deposit bundled mail with request form attached, in the large boxes labeled "Outgoing Postal Mail" located in your building's central mailbox area. Outgoing mail may also be brought to the Administrative Mail office for processing. Mail metering machines can seal regular #10 envelopes; all other envelopes must be sealed before being dropped for pick-up. Any sensitive or confidential items should be sealed, regardless of size, before they are dropped. Terms of Mail Metering Service All outgoing mail must be official University business and must include a Columbia University return address. Personal mail such as utility and credit card statements will be returned to the originating department. Any variance from this policy requires a written request for waiver from a department chair or director. For more information about metered mail, please contact us. Packages Administrative Mail sends packages via the United States Postal Service (USPS). Packages can be sent via 1st class mail, media mail (book rate), library mail, parcel post, domestic express, air mail, foreign press and international surface mail. To send a package, complete a Mail Meter Request Form and attach it to the item(s) to be mailed. Any package that does not fit in the administrative mail slots must be dropped off at the Administrative Mail office. Administrative Mail only collects packages destined to campus addresses; packages destined for off-campus locations must be dropped off at the Administrative Mail office. For expedited service, departments should coordinate delivery directly via USPS or an independent courier. FedEx services are available at a discounted rate at the Student Mail Center. The Student Mail Center accepts payment via credit card, cash, check and Flex. Bulk Mail Administrative Mail coordinates mass mailings for intercampus and University-affiliated deliveries. Mass mailing services are provided for official Columbia University business only, and include on-campus collection, printing, stuffing and delivery. A valid departmental chart string is required for all orders. Minimum mailing size for 1st class mail and presorted mail is 500 pieces. Minimum mailing size for nonprofit mail is 200 pieces. For more information about mass mailing services, please contact the Bulk Mail Manager. Columbia Print can provide design and production assistance for mass mailings. For more information on these services, please contact Columbia Print. Courier Deliveries Columbia Print provides same-day, intercampus courier service. A valid departmental chart string is required for all requests. For more information, please contact Columbia Print at (212) 854-6594 for additional information. Location and Hours: Administrative Mail Office: Service Building, Room 101 Phone: 212-854-9686 Monday through Friday: 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Holiday Closings The Administrative Mail Office is closed in observance of the following University holidays: New Year's Day Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Election Day Thanksgiving Day The day after Thanksgiving Christmas Eve Christmas Day New Year's Eve Have Feedback? Let us know what you think using our Feedback form. [email protected] Student Mail Center (212) 854-0100Wien Hall - Lower Level, 411 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Administrative Mail Office (212) 854-9686Schermerhorn Hall, 1190 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close