Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Mail Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Mail Administrative Mail For Parents & Family Policies Announcements About Us Student Mail Center Sending Mail & Packages Receiving Mail & Packages Forwarding Mail Other Services Mail Tips The Administrative Mail Office Sending Mail Receiving Mail What to do when you move Other Services Forms Mail Tips Our Team Sustainability Columbia Mail You are here: Home Undergraduate Mail The Student Mail Center The Student Mail Center Incoming mail and packages for residential CC/SEAS students are received at the Student Mail Center in the lower level of Wien Hall. It is the primary pick-up location for undergraduate residents of Columbia Housing. Upon receipt of mail or a package, the Student Mail Center sends students an email notification indicating the pick-up location. Contact the Student Mail Center directly at 212-854-0100. Getting to the Student Mail Center. Image Carousel with 4 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Columbia University Undergraduate Package Center Slide 2: Columbia University Undergraduate Package Center Slide 3: Columbia University Undergraduate Package Center Slide 4: Columbia University Undergraduate Package Center Previous Next Location Columbia Student Mail Center Student Mail Center: Wien Hall, Lower Level Spring Hours: February 28 - May 20 Mon – Fri: 9:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. Saturday – Sunday: CLOSED Summer Hours: May 23 - September 2 Mon – Fri: 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Saturday – Sunday: CLOSED For after-hours and weekend service, please request a locker. Holiday Closings The Student Mail Center is closed in observance of the following University holidays: New Year's Day Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Election Day Thanksgiving Day The day after Thanksgiving Christmas Eve Christmas Day New Year's Eve Have Feedback? Let us know what you think using our Feedback form. [email protected] Student Mail Center (212) 854-0100Wien Hall - Lower Level, 411 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Administrative Mail Office (212) 854-9686Schermerhorn Hall, 1190 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close