Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Mail Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Mail Administrative Mail For Parents & Family Policies Announcements About Us Student Mail Center Sending Mail & Packages Receiving Mail & Packages Forwarding Mail Other Services Mail Tips The Administrative Mail Office Sending Mail Receiving Mail What to do when you move Other Services Forms Mail Tips Our Team Sustainability Columbia Mail You are here: Home About Us Sustainability Sustainability Columbia Mail is committed to incorporating sustainability practices into its daily operations. Highlighted here are ongoing initiatives undertaken by the department in conjunction with campus partners. Operations Waste Reduction Operations Columbia Mail’s primary service vehicles are greening up the department’s operations: Chevy Tahoe Hybrid Replacing a 2002 Ford Windstar, "Hybridgette", the new 2013 Chevy Tahoe Hybrid, is engineered for efficiency, and includes a regenerative braking system and electronically variable transmission with integral electric motors, paired with Hybrid Electric Propulsion. This vehicle replacement saves 0.8 gallons per 100 miles, in addition to savings in fuel costs. Notably, the hybrid emits 71 grams of C02 less than the replaced vehicle, making it a greener option all-around. Mercedes Sprinter The Mercedes Sprinter features the latest green, clean diesel technology on the market. Powered by a V6 Turbo Diesel engine, the Sprinter uses a BLUE TEC system to drastically reduce emissions and boasts 18MPG. The Sprinter joins Mail’s fleet along with the first generation all Electric Green Van and a Hybrid that while large in size, still maintains low fuel consumption through its regenerative system, in combination with an auto start/stop program. Back to top Waste Reduction Direct Mail Reduction Opportunities Students wishing to reduce deliveries of unsolicited direct mail or to manage their direct mail solicitations can visit DMA Choice, the website of the Direct Marketing Association, which allows consumers to complete a convenient online form to reduce or eliminate commercial mailings from the majority of companies that participate in direct mail marketing. Back to top Location and Hours: Administrative Mail Office: Service Building, Room 101 Phone: 212-854-9686 Monday through Friday: 9:00 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. Holiday Closings The Administrative Mail Office is closed in observance of the following University holidays: New Year's Day Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Election Day Thanksgiving Day The day after Thanksgiving Christmas Eve Christmas Day New Year's Eve Have Feedback? Let us know what you think using our Feedback form. [email protected] Student Mail Center (212) 854-0100Wien Hall - Lower Level, 411 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Administrative Mail Office (212) 854-9686Schermerhorn Hall, 1190 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close