Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Mail Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Mail Administrative Mail For Parents & Family Policies Announcements About Us Student Mail Center Sending Mail & Packages Receiving Mail & Packages Forwarding Mail Other Services Mail Tips The Administrative Mail Office Sending Mail Receiving Mail What to do when you move Other Services Forms Mail Tips Our Team Sustainability Columbia Mail You are here: Home Information for Parents & Family Information for Parents & Family Students may begin receiving mail up to 14 days before the official first-year check-in date. Address The following address and format should be used for undergraduate mail. As of Fall 2021, the student's UNI will act as a mailbox number. Please enter your full UNI before "Columbia Student Mail" in the address. If you are a junior or senior who was assigned a mailbox number in prior years, it is still valid; however, you may also access your mail using your UNI in place of your mailbox number if you so choose. Student’s Full Name [Full UNI] Columbia Student Mail 70 Morningside Drive New York, NY 10027-7236 Format Web forms may vary in how an address can be submitted. Try to include the full UNI using one of the lines typically provided: either Address 1, Address 2, or Apartment. The word "box" should never be used in the address. Mail should never be sent to a student's residence hall address. Packages Packages should be addressed to a student's UNI. The Student Mail Center holds packages for up to 14 business days and sends regular email notifications to students during this time. For more information on packages, please see the Package Return Policy. For tips on sending mail to students via the U.S. Postal Service, please see Mail Tips. Prohibited Items The following items are prohibited in all Columbia owned and operated residence halls and brownstones. Air conditioners (both window and portable units) shipped to the Columbia Student Mail Center will not be accepted and will be returned to sender at the sender's expense. Banners, flags, nets, holiday lighting, cable wire, and hangers installed in such a way as to interfere with the operation of any fire safety equipment (i.e. sprinkler heads or smoke detectors). No items may be installed on/suspended from the ceilings. Candles, even if the item is strictly decorative "Live" holiday decorations such as wreaths or Christmas trees Deep fryers Drones Electric Scooters Electronic cigarettes, vape pens, and Juuls Extension cords (only UL-listed surge protectors with shut-off safety functioning are allowed) Fog Machines Grills Halogen lamps Hookahs Hot plates Hoverboards, self-propelled scooters, and similar devices Illegal drugs and/or paraphernalia Incense, even if item is strictly decorative Immersion coils Lofted Beds Motorcycles or any gas engine vehicles Non-flame-resistant decorations hung on room/suite doors or hallway bulletin boards. Pets (only fish in a half-gallon or less tank are allowed) Signs, posters, lights, or decorations on the exterior of buildings or attached to windowpanes. Space heaters Columbia Student Mail Center Student Mail Center: Wien Hall, Lower Level Spring Hours: February 28 - May 20 Mon – Fri: 9:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. Saturday – Sunday: CLOSED Summer Hours: May 23 - September 2 Mon – Fri: 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Saturday – Sunday: CLOSED For after-hours and weekend service, please request a locker. Holiday Closings The Student Mail Center is closed in observance of the following University holidays: New Year's Day Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Election Day Thanksgiving Day The day after Thanksgiving Christmas Eve Christmas Day New Year's Eve Have Feedback? Let us know what you think using our Feedback form. [email protected] Student Mail Center (212) 854-0100Wien Hall - Lower Level, 411 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Administrative Mail Office (212) 854-9686Schermerhorn Hall, 1190 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close