Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Mail Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Mail Administrative Mail For Parents & Family Policies Announcements About Us Student Mail Center Sending Mail & Packages Receiving Mail & Packages Forwarding Mail Other Services Mail Tips The Administrative Mail Office Sending Mail Receiving Mail What to do when you move Other Services Forms Mail Tips Our Team Sustainability Columbia Mail Home Welcome to Columbia Mail Mail services for undergraduate residents and campus administrators. View Our Hours & Locations Safety Protocols During COVID-19 Columbia Mail has implemented a number of recommended safety measures to reduce risk for employees and the Columbia community during COVID-19. We will monitor the evolving situation periodically and continue to adjust our policies accordingly. Announcements February 23, 2022 Ordering Government-Issued COVID-19 Tests to your Campus Mailing Address Make sure to add your UNI to your first name so USPS recognizes you as a unique resident of our campus buildings. January 14, 2022 Student Mail Center Spring Hours The Student Mail Center's new open hours for Spring are available here. Tags Hours August 27, 2021 Student Mail Hours for Fall 2021 Updates and reminders for incoming students about receiving mail and packages on campus. Tags Student Mail More News Undergraduate Services dropbox icon Student Mail Center Incoming packages are received at the Student Mail Center in the lower level of Wien Hall. paper-plane icon Sending Mail Outgoing mail can be deposited in any USPS mailbox or brought to the Student Mail Center. inbox icon Receiving Mail Learn more about receiving mail and packages, including the correct address format and delivery schedule. arrow-circle-right icon Forwarding Mail The Student Mail Center offers Columbia Housing residents mail forwarding service for 1st class USPS mail. book icon Policies Review our various mail policies including how mail is handled when studying abroad or when mail is incorrectly addressed. users icon Parent and Family Information Incoming undergraduate residents of Columbia Housing receive their mailbox number the summer before their first academic term. check-square icon Other Services View additional services available, including items for purchase and mailbox stuffing. Administrative Services send icon Sending Mail Administrative Mail process domestic and international USPS mail for the Morningside Heights campus, Columbia University Medical Center, and satellite locations. Mail destined to any interoffice campus location is delivered free of charge. inbox icon Receiving Mail Administrative Mail delivers incoming USPS mail and intercampus mail to the Morningside Heights campus, Columbia University Medical Center, and satellite locations. suitcase icon What To Do When You Move Faculty, staff and administrative departments that move to a new location on the Morningside Heights campus are assigned new mail codes. check-square icon Other Services View additional services available, including items for purchase and mailbox stuffing. Google Map Location Student Mail Center (212) 854-0100Wien Hall - Lower Level, 411 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Administrative Mail Office (212) 854-9686Schermerhorn Hall, 1190 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close