Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Mail Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Mail Administrative Mail For Parents & Family Policies Announcements About Us Student Mail Center Sending Mail & Packages Receiving Mail & Packages Forwarding Mail Other Services Mail Tips The Administrative Mail Office Sending Mail Receiving Mail What to do when you move Other Services Forms Mail Tips Our Team Sustainability Columbia Mail You are here: Home Policies Policies Please be aware of the following Columbia University Mail Services policies. Expand all Collapse all Package Return Policy Due to storage limitations and sanitation considerations, oversized parcels and deliveries containing perishables are held for up to 7 business days, after which oversized parcels are returned to the sender and packages containing perishables are discarded. All other parcels are kept for up to 14 business days. If not collected within 7 business days, a second email is sent to the student notifying him or her that the package is scheduled for return in 7 days. Due to storage limitations, packages cannot be held any longer than prescribed. Incorrectly Addressed Mail Incorrectly addressed, unsolicited mass mailings are returned to the sender. Other incorrectly addressed mail (non-mass mailing) is a low priority for processing. This mail can take up to several days to process. Mailbox Stuffing Policy Columbia University student groups and affiliated schools, departments, and offices can request flyers to be placed in Student Mail Folders for a fee. Outside organizations may request a mailbox stuffing if it is in connection with the activity of a student group, affiliated school, department, or office. Nonprofit community organizations, public and civic organizations, political organizations, and governmental organizations should first consult with the University’s Office of Government Relations and Community Affairs as a campus contact to arrange a request. Requests from outside organizations that do not meet these criteria will be denied. Fees to be applied upon approval. Items cannot be larger than 3 inches wide, 5 inches high, 15 inches deep. In-house organizations: $550.00 USD External organizations (non-Columbia University): $1,000.00 USD All content subject to review before mailbox stuffing. To get the process started, complete our Mailbox Stuffing Request Form. Columbia Student Mail Center Student Mail Center: Wien Hall, Lower Level Spring Hours: February 28 - May 20 Mon – Fri: 9:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. Saturday – Sunday: CLOSED Summer Hours: May 23 - September 2 Mon – Fri: 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Saturday – Sunday: CLOSED For after-hours and weekend service, please request a locker. Holiday Closings The Student Mail Center is closed in observance of the following University holidays: New Year's Day Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Election Day Thanksgiving Day The day after Thanksgiving Christmas Eve Christmas Day New Year's Eve Have Feedback? Let us know what you think using our Feedback form. [email protected] Student Mail Center (212) 854-0100Wien Hall - Lower Level, 411 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Administrative Mail Office (212) 854-9686Schermerhorn Hall, 1190 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close