Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Mail Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Mail Administrative Mail For Parents & Family Policies Announcements About Us Student Mail Center Sending Mail & Packages Receiving Mail & Packages Forwarding Mail Other Services Mail Tips The Administrative Mail Office Sending Mail Receiving Mail What to do when you move Other Services Forms Mail Tips Our Team Sustainability Columbia Mail You are here: Home Undergraduate Mail Sending Mail & Packages Sending Mail & Packages Contact the Student Mail Center: Email: [email protected] Phone: 212-854-0100 U.S. Postal Service (USPS) Mail Outgoing Packages Intercampus Mail Mail Codes U.S. Postal Service (USPS) Mail Outgoing mail can be deposited in any USPS mailbox or brought to the Student Mail Center, on the lower level of Wien Hall. The Student Mail Center does not sell stamps and cannot add postage to outgoing mail. The closest USPS branch to the Morningside Heights campus is located on 112th Street between Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue at 534 West 112th Street. Outgoing Packages Outgoing packages can be dropped for collection at the Student Mail Center, on the lower level of Wien Hall. Student Mail offers discounted FedEx shipping services to students and Columbia affiliates, with FedEx rates significantly lower than FedEx’s online or in-store rates. To ship a package via FedEx, a Domestic Shipping Form or an International Shipping Form must be completed and provided with the package. Intercampus Mail Columbia Mail distributes intercampus mail to the following University locations: Morningside Heights campus Barnard College Harlem Hospital Columbia University Medical Center Lamont-Doherty Teachers College Studebaker Prentis Hall Nash The Interchurch Center Mail Codes When sending intercampus mail, always include the receiving department's mail code, if applicable. A mail code is a four-digit number assigned to each department and office on the Morningside Heights campus. To find the mail code of a department, academic building or individual, visit the online University directory and search by the name of the department or an associated staff or faculty member. Note that only Morningside campus locations have mail codes. Note: Mail codes are not the same as student mailboxes. Columbia Student Mail Center Student Mail Center: Wien Hall, Lower Level Spring Hours: February 28 - May 20 Mon – Fri: 9:00 a.m. – 6:00 p.m. Saturday – Sunday: CLOSED Summer Hours: May 23 - September 2 Mon – Fri: 10:00 a.m. – 2:00 p.m. Saturday – Sunday: CLOSED For after-hours and weekend service, please request a locker. Holiday Closings The Student Mail Center is closed in observance of the following University holidays: New Year's Day Martin Luther King, Jr. Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Election Day Thanksgiving Day The day after Thanksgiving Christmas Eve Christmas Day New Year's Eve Have Feedback? Let us know what you think using our Feedback form. [email protected] Student Mail Center (212) 854-0100Wien Hall - Lower Level, 411 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Administrative Mail Office (212) 854-9686Schermerhorn Hall, 1190 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close