Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia Mail Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Undergraduate Mail Administrative Mail For Parents & Family Policies Announcements About Us Student Mail Center Sending Mail & Packages Receiving Mail & Packages Forwarding Mail Other Services Mail Tips The Administrative Mail Office Sending Mail Receiving Mail What to do when you move Other Services Forms Mail Tips Our Team Sustainability Columbia Mail You are here: Home Administrative Mail Forms Forms Don't see what you're looking for? Email the Student Mail Center or Administrative Mail. Feedback If you would like to provide Columbia Mail with feedback, please use our Feedback form. Student Mail Center Domestic Shipping Form This form is for shipping packages within the United States. Complete the form and bring it with you to the Student Mail Center. The form may be completed online and printed, or printed blank and completed by hand. International Shipping Form This form is for shipping packages from the United States to another country. Complete the form and bring it with you to the Student Mail Center. The form may be completed online and printed, or printed blank and completed by hand. Mailbox Assignment Extension Request Students departing on a University-approved program of study abroad who intend to return to Columbia Housing can request to reserve their mailbox assignment for up to two semesters by completing the form below. For complete policy and eligibility details read the Study Abroad Mailbox Policy. Mail Forwarding Request Use this form to request forwarding of first-class USPS mail. The Student Mail Center does not forward packages or mail sent from private couriers (i.e. FedEx, UPS, etc.). For complete policy and eligibility details, see Forwarding Mail. Mailbox Stuffing Request Form Per the Mailbox Stuffing Policy, Columbia University student groups and affiliated schools, departments, and offices can request flyers to be placed in student mailboxes for a fee. Outside organizations may request a mailbox stuffing if it is in connection with the activity of a student group, affiliated school, department, or office. Administrative Mail Mail Meter Request Form Complete this form to request metering of domestic and international mail pieces. Bundle and submit domestic and foreign mail separately. Use envelopes without permit indicia. Large envelopes and envelopes with metal clasps must be sealed. For processing and billing inquiries, contact Administrative Mail and provide a copy of this form. Student Mail Center (212) 854-0100Wien Hall - Lower Level, 411 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Administrative Mail Office (212) 854-9686Schermerhorn Hall, 1190 Amsterdam Ave · New York, NY 10027 Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close