Skip to content SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Majors Majors EXPLORE MAJORS Majors A-Z All ABC DEF GHI JKL MNO PQR STU Majors by Interest Arts & Performance Building & Design Computers & Technology Economic & Political Systems Energy & Environment History & Literature Human Cultures & Behavior Interdisciplinary Programs Languages Management & Entrepreneurship Math & Sciences Medicine Public Service News More Ways to Explore Choosing Your Major Choosing to Minor Comparing Majors Options Choosing to Coterm Double Majors and Secondary Majors Please note: For the most up-to-date information about Majors and Programs, you can refer to the programs section of the new bulletin! Explore Majors Don’t be afraid to Declare! Sometimes a good way to evaluate the major or minor is to “try it on”—declare, integrate yourself into the department, and see if it’s the right fit. You can certainly change majors if you later realize a different field is a better fit for you. You can declare anytime during your first year or sophomore year. Explore the options below and if you are considering a particular major, go visit the department! Find out when and how to declare a major, plus additional tips Learn more about the Majors site News & Announcements CS+X pilot to be discontinued end of spring quarter Jan 2019 New Minor Subplans for the Human Biology Program Jul 2018 New Minor in Digital Humanities Jul 2018 Read More Majors News BA BS Joint Major/BAS Minor Honors Interdisciplinary Honors Coterm Aeronautics and Astronautics BSMinorHonorsCoterm Aeronautics and Astronautics Provides you with the principles and techniques necessary for success and leadership in the conception, design, implementation, and operation of aerospace and related engineering systems. Learn more African and African American Studies BAMinorHonors African and African American Studies Provides you with an interdisciplinary introduction to the study of people of African descent as a central component of American culture. Learn more African Studies MinorCoterm African Studies African Studies focuses on the interactions among the social, economic, cultural, historical, linguistic, genetic, geopolitical, ecological, and biomedical factors that shape and have shaped African societies Learn more American Studies BAMinorHonors American Studies An interdisciplinary undergraduate major that seeks to convey a broad understanding of American culture and society in all their complexity. Learn more Anthropology BAMinorHonorsCoterm Anthropology Anthropology is devoted to the study of human beings and human societies as they exist across time and space. Learn more Applied and Engineering Physics Coterm Applied and Engineering Physics Explore the disciplines where fundamental physics meets applied science and engineering. Learn more Archaeology BAMinorHonors Archaeology Archaeology is the study of the past through its material remains that survive into the present. Archaeology is a discipline that offers direct access to the experiences of a wide range of people in numerous cultures across the globe. Increasingly, archaeology bridges past and present societies through the study of the human heritage and its role in contemporary societies. Learn more Architectural Design BSHonors Architectural Design Develop your ability to integrate engineering and architecture in ways that blend innovative architectural design with cutting-edge engineering technologies. Learn more Art History BAMinorHonorsCoterm Art History Think critically about the visual arts and visual culture and focus on the meaning of images and media, and their historical development, roles in society, and relationships to disciplines such as literature, music, and philosophy. Learn more Art Practice BAMinorHonors Art Practice Immerse yourself in the craft, culture, and theory of current fine art practices, prepare for a successful career as a visual artist. Learn more Asian American Studies BAMinorHonors Asian American Studies Explore the artistic, historical, humanistic, political, and social dimensions of Asian Americans, including: artistic and cultural contributions; current social significance; historical experiences; immigration, intellectual, and policy issues. Learn more Atmosphere/ Energy BSHonors Atmosphere/ Energy Understand large- and local-scale climate, air pollution, and energy problems and solve them through clean, renewable, and efficient energy systems. Learn more Bioengineering BSHonorsCoterm Bioengineering Understanding and interfacing with complex living systems is at the heart of bioengineering with applications ranging from advancing human health to promoting environmental sustainability. Learn more Biology BSMinorHonorsCoterm Biology Biology will provide you with a broad-based biology curriculum. Learn more Biomechanical Engineering BSCoterm Biomechanical Engineering This degree introduces fundamental biological and biophysical principles while developing strengths in traditional engineering areas, specifically mechanical engineering. Learn more Biomedical Computation BSHonors Biomedical Computation Use advanced computational techniques to address questions in biology and medicine. Learn more Chemical Engineering BSMinorHonorsCoterm Chemical Engineering The study of Chemical Engineering begins with experimentation in the laboratory and is followed by implementation of technology in full-scale production Learn more Chemistry BSMinorHonorsCoterm Chemistry Students acquire in-depth knowledge of the principles of chemistry, the methodologies necessary to solve complex problems, and the ability to articulate their ideas effectively to the scientific community. Learn more Chicana/o - Latina/o Studies BAMinorHonors Chicana/o - Latina/o Studies The Chicana/o-Latina/o Studies program affords students an opportunity to explore the culture, society, economy, and politics of this important and growing segment of our national population. Learn more China Studies BAMinorHonors China Studies Explore a variety of perspectives in Chinese language, culture, and history. Learn more Civil and Environmental Engineering BSMinorHonorsCoterm Civil and Environmental Engineering This pre-professional program balances the fundamentals common to many specialties in civil engineering and allows for concentration in structures and construction or environmental and water studies. Learn more Classics BAJoint Major/BASMinorHonorsCoterm Classics Classics focusses on the literature and material culture of ancient Greece and Rome, including Greek and Latin language, literature, philosophy, history, art, and archaeology. Learn more Communication BAMinorHonorsCoterm Communication Analyze the social, cultural and psychological impact of communication processes, technologies, and media using both quantitative and qualitative methods. Learn more Community Health and Prevention Research Coterm Community Health and Prevention Research CHPR is designed for students pursuing health-related careers focusing on chronic disease prevention, health and wellness promotion, and the pursuit of health equity. Learn more Comparative Literature BAMinorHonors Comparative Literature While Comparative Literature seeks to prepare its students for reading and research in the languages and histories of different societies and periods, it is also dedicated to their critical and cultural analysis. Learn more Comparative Studies in Race and Ethnicity BAMinorHonorsInterdisciplinary Honors Comparative Studies in Race and Ethnicity CSRE allows you to have a thematic concentration that compares various ethnic groups or explores topics that cut across group experiences in the United States and elsewhere in the world. Learn more Computer Science BSJoint Major/BASMinorHonorsCoterm Computer Science Broad and rigorous training for students interested in the science of computing. Learn more Creative Writing Minor Creative Writing This course of study cultivates the power of individual expression within a vibrant community of writers. Learn more Dance (TAPS Minor) Minor Dance (TAPS Minor) The Dance Division offers a range of broadly diverse approaches to dance as a performing art, cultural practice, political act and embodiment of ideology and beliefs. Learn more Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law Interdisciplinary Honors Democracy, Development, and the Rule of Law Focus on democracy, economic development, and rule of law subjects in any university department to earn honors in democracy, development, and rule of law. Learn more Digital Humanities Minor Digital Humanities The important and flourishing field of Digital Humanities offers an exciting opportunity to expand the range of inquiry and invigorate interest in humanistic study among Stanford’s undergraduates. Learn more Earth Systems BSMinorHonorsCoterm Earth Systems Independently investigate complex environmental problems caused by human activities in interaction with natural changes in the Earth system. Learn more East Asian Studies BAMinorHonors East Asian Studies Take part in East Asia-related research, teaching, outreach and exchange across the Stanford campus. Learn more Economics BAMinorHonors Economics Learn about the economic aspects of modern society, analyze contemporary economic problems, and develop the ability to exercise judgment in evaluating public policy. Learn more Education MinorInterdisciplinary HonorsCoterm Education Gain a substantial introduction to education through a broad-based and focused study of educational research, theory and practice. Learn more Electrical Engineering BSMinorHonorsCoterm Electrical Engineering Learn electrical engineering principles along with the required supporting knowledge of mathematics, science, computing, and engineering fundamentals. Learn more Energy Resources Engineering BSMinorHonorsCoterm Energy Resources Engineering Gain engineering skills while also exploring the many facets of the energy industry including renewable energy resources, oil and gas recovery, geothermal engineering, and more. The program allows students flexibility in exploring the evolution of energy, while providing an earth sciences based approach to energy resources. Learn more Engineering Physics BSHonors Engineering Physics The Engineering Physics program is designed for students who have an interest in and an aptitude for both engineering and physics. Students begin with a year of mathematics and calculus-based physics, and then proceed to depth courses in physics and engineering, as well as elective courses in a selected specialty area (Aerospace Physics, Biophysics, Computational Science, Electromechanical System Design, Energy Systems, Materials Science, Photonics, or Renewable Energy). Learn more English BAMinorHonorsCoterm English Explore -- deeply and rewardingly -- the rich legacy of literature written in English, past and present. Learn more Environmental Systems Engineering BSMinorHonorsCoterm Environmental Systems Engineering Be prepared to incorporate environmentally sustainable design, strategies and practices into natural and built systems and infrastructure involving buildings, water supply, and coastal regions. Learn more Ethics In Society MinorInterdisciplinary Honors Ethics In Society Grounded in moral and political philosophy, Ethics in Society is designed to foster scholarship, teaching, and moral reflection on fundamental issues in personal and public life. Learn more European Studies Minor European Studies The Europe Center is committed to the multidisciplinary examination of European society, culture, politics, and security. The Center seeks to raise awareness and support interest in the study of Europe by Stanford's undergraduate community. Learn more Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies BAMinorHonorsInterdisciplinary Honors Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality Studies Consider questions and issues in feminism, gender, and sexuality through the intersection of race, class, gender, ethnicity, and disability to consider interlocking oppression. Learn more Film and Media Studies BAMinorHonors Film and Media Studies Develop the critical vocabulary and intellectual framework for understanding the role of cinema and related media within broad cultural and historical concepts. Learn more French BAMinorHonorsCoterm French Pursue course work at all levels in the language, cultures, literatures, and intellectual histories of the French tradition. Learn more Geological Sciences BSMinorHonorsCoterm Geological Sciences Conduct research and think critically about questions involving the Earth. Learn more Geophysics BSMinorCoterm Geophysics Be exposed to a broad spectrum of geophysics, including: resource exploration, environmental geophysics, seismology, and tectonics. Learn more German Studies BAMinorHonorsCoterm German Studies Study the German language, linguistics, literature, culture, and thought. Learn more Global Studies Minor Global Studies Designed to give students a global view as well as an in-depth interdisciplinary study in one of six specializations. Learn more History BAJoint Major/BASMinorHonorsCoterm History Understand what it means to think historically: locating subjects in time and place and being sensitive to the contingencies of context and to change over time. Learn more Honors in the Arts Interdisciplinary Honors Honors in the Arts Whether you are already studying the arts, or are in an unrelated major, complete a capstone project integrating a broad arts perspective. Learn more Human Biology BABSMinorHonors Human Biology Offers an interdisciplinary approach to understanding human beings from biological, behavioral, social, and cultural perspectives. Learn more Human Rights Minor Human Rights The Human Rights Minor promotes understanding of how human rights are interconnected across seemingly disparate disciplines and is open to students in any major. Learn more Iberian & Latin American Cultures BAHonorsCoterm Iberian &amp; Latin American Cultures Groundbreaking approaches to the literature and cultures of the Iberian Peninsula, Latin America, Brazil and Lusophone Africa, and Latina/o populations in the United States. Learn more International Policy Studies Coterm International Policy Studies The Ford Dorsey Program in International Policy Studies trains leaders who will influence policy in international trade and finance, security, political and economic development, energy and the environmnent, and global health. Learn more International Relations BAMinorHonors International Relations Explore how global, regional and domestic factors influence relations between actors on the world stage. Learn more International Security Studies Interdisciplinary Honors International Security Studies An opportunity for undergraduates with strong academic records and interest in international security from all undergraduate schools and majors to receive Honors in International Security Studies. Learn more Iranian Studies Minor Iranian Studies The Iranian Studies Program focuses on the interdisciplinary study of modern Iranian society, culture, politics, and economy. Undergraduate students can minor in Global Studies with a specialization in Iranian Studies. Learn more Islamic Studies Minor Islamic Studies The Abbasi Program in Islamic Studies enhances the study of Islam and Muslim societies & cultures through research, teaching, and public outreach at Stanford. Learn more Italian BAMinorHonors Italian A comprehensive study of Italian literature and cultures, establishing a solid basis for potential further study in literature or history. Learn more Japanese BAMinorHonors Japanese Be exposed to a variety of perspectives in Japanese language, culture, and history through training in writing and communication, literature, and civilization. Learn more Jewish Studies BAMinor Jewish Studies Gain an understanding of Jewish history, language, literature, religion, thought and politics. Learn more Korean BAMinor Korean Students may get a minor in East Asian Studies with a subplan in Korean. Learn more Laboratory Animal Science Coterm Laboratory Animal Science The Master of Laboratory Animal Science (MLAS) program in the Department of Comparative Medicine is a flexible, one year Coterminal program designed for students who want to pursue advanced careers in biomedical research, focusing on animal modeli Learn more Latin American Studies MinorInterdisciplinary HonorsCoterm Latin American Studies An interdisciplinary honors and a minor in Latin American Studies. Learn more Linguistics BACoterm Linguistics Explore the principal areas of linguistics (phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, pragmatics, historical linguistics, and sociolinguistics) and gain the skills to do more advanced work in these subfields. Learn more Management Science and Engineering BSMinorCoterm Management Science and Engineering Be able to plan, design, and implement complex economic and technical management systems. Learn more Materials Science and Engineering BSMinorHonorsCoterm Materials Science and Engineering Materials Science is essential to the practice of engineering and technology as all facets of engineering depend critically on the materials utilized. Learn more Mathematical and Computational Science BSMinorHonors Mathematical and Computational Science Study the mathematics basic to all the mathematical sciences and an introduction to concepts and techniques of computation, optimal decision making, probabilistic modeling and statistical inference. Learn more Mathematics BSHonors Mathematics Provide students with a broad understanding of mathematics encompassing logical reasoning, generalization, abstraction, and formal proof. Learn more Mechanical Engineering BSMinorCoterm Mechanical Engineering Mechanical Engineering encompasses elements from a wide array of disciplines built around the themes of biomedicine, computational engineering, design, energy, and multiscale engineering. Learn more Medieval Studies Minor Medieval Studies A multidisciplinary community working together to reveal new perspectives on medieval and early modern studies. Learn more Middle Eastern Language, Literature and Culture Minor Middle Eastern Language, Literature and Culture Designed to give students majoring in other departments an opportunity to gain a substantial introduction to Middle Eastern and African languages, and to the cultures and civilizations of the Middle East and Africa. Learn more Modern Languages Minor Modern Languages Offered for students who may wish to supplement their coursework in their major field of study with significant coursework in modern languages and literatures. Learn more Modern Thought and Literature Coterm Modern Thought and Literature Students who have a background in literature and/or cultural studies can apply for this individualized co-term. Learn more Music BAJoint Major/BASMinorHonors Music A series of core courses in theory, history, analysis, writing, and applied music. Beyond the core requirements, students can also elect to concentrate in Performance, Conducting, Composition, Music History and Theory, or Music, Science, and Technology. Learn more Music, Science, and Technology Coterm Music, Science, and Technology Focuses on the integration of music perception, music-related signal processing and controllers, synthesis, performance, and composition. Learn more Native American Studies BAHonorsMinor Native American Studies An intensive approach to understanding the historical and contemporary experiences of Native American people. Learn more Philosophy BAJoint Major/BASMinorHonorsCoterm Philosophy Philosophy concerns itself with fundamental problems and examines the efforts of past thinkers to understand the world and people's experience of it. Learn more Philosophy and Religious Studies BAHonors Philosophy and Religious Studies Learn to think clearly and critically about the deepest and broadest questions concerning being, knowledge, and value, as well as their connections to the full range of human activities and interests. Learn more Physics BSMinorHonors Physics Develop an understanding of the fundamental laws that govern the universe, and a strong foundation of mathematical, analytical, laboratory, and written communication skills. Learn more Political Science BAMinorHonors Political Science Provides students with a solid grasp of the American political system and other political systems within the context of global forces, international conflicts, social movements, ideological systems and diversity. Learn more Portuguese Minor Portuguese The minor in Portuguese are for students who want to combine acquisition of linguistic competence with the study of the literatures and cultures of the Lusophone world. Learn more Product Design BS Product Design This program teaches a design process that encourages creativity, craftsmanship, and personal expression, aesthetics, and emphasizes brainstorming and need finding. Learn more Psychology BAMinorHonors Psychology Be immersed in the theories and empirical studies of human behavior. Learn more Public Policy BAMinorHonorsCoterm Public Policy An interdisciplinary program that engages students in the process of evaluating policy options and outcomes. Learn more Religious Studies BAMinorHonorsCoterm Religious Studies Designed to engage students existentially and to assist them in thinking about intellectual, ethical, and sociopolitical issues in the world's religions. Learn more Science, Technology, and Society BABSHonors Science, Technology, and Society Provides students with an interdisciplinary framework through which to understand the complex interactions of science, technology and the social world. Learn more Slavic Languages and Literatures BAMinorHonorsCoterm Slavic Languages and Literatures Coordinated study of Russian language, literature, literary and cultural history, as well as literary theory and criticism. Learn more Sociology BAMinorHonorsCoterm Sociology Understand and address social problems and inequalities in global, institutional, and interpersonal social relations. Learn more South Asian Studies Minor South Asian Studies Center for South Asia (CSA) is the central forum for the interdisciplinary study of South Asia at Stanford University. CSA facilitates research and convenes events on topics relevant to deepening the understanding of South Asia, which includes Ban Learn more Spanish BAMinorHonors Spanish The minor in Spanish is for students who want to combine acquisition of linguistic competence with the study of the literatures and cultures of the Spanish-speaking world. Learn more Statistics MinorCoterm Statistics For students interested in the theory of statistics and/or probability, or for students who wish to apply statistical and probabilistic methods to a substantive area. Learn more Sustainability Minor Sustainability Stanford students can minor in Earth Systems with a Sustainability sub-plan. To learn more, visit Earth Systems Learn more Symbolic Systems BSCoterm Symbolic Systems An interdisciplinary program focusing on the relationship between natural and artificial systems that represent, process, and act on information. Learn more Theater and Performance Studies BAMinorHonors Theater and Performance Studies Provides students with historical, critical, and practical knowledge about theater and performance. Learn more Translation Studies Minor Translation Studies Teaches students to develop and apply their foreign language knowledge to the production and analysis of translations. Learn more Urban Studies BAMinorHonors Urban Studies Combines academic approaches with real-world experience to understand cities, the influence of physical environment and how to address seemingly intractable social problems. Learn more Questions, Comments, or Concerns? Learn more about the Majors site. About This Site Stanford Undergrad is your guide to undergraduate academics and opportunities run by the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education. About VPUE VPUE Overview Meet the Vice Provost Faculty Committees & Boards Study of Undergraduate Education at Stanford Contact Us See Also Undergrad Calendar Teaching Commons Vice Provost for Student Affairs Undergraduate Admissions Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.