Home Getting Started Tools & Resources Hours & Events Our Team Showcase FAQ Contact Us The Makerspace @ Columbia Home Getting Started Tools & Resources Hours & Events Our Team Showcase FAQ Contact Us Welcome to The Makerspace @ Columbia Room 254 Engineering Terrace/Mudd ANNOUNCEMENT (Updated September, 2021) As of Thursday, September 9th 2021, the Makerspace is once again FULLY OPEN to ALL current Columbia affiliates. This allows entry for all current undergraduates, master’s students, university sponsored researchers, PhD candidates, university faculty, and university staff. You can either walk in 11 AM - 6 PM weekdays for open hours, during one of our Superuser office hours, or email us for a specific time slot. Current Policies: Face Mask is required at all times Please use the hand sanitizer at the door upon entry ** There are no capacity limits at this time due to a nearly 100% vaccinated campus ** Hello and Welcome! Who We Are and What We Do The Makerspace @ Columbia is a Columbia University run workshop. We provide a wide variety of tools and for students, artists, makers, creatives, programmers, scientists, and engineers to use, and provide a space in which they can work, share ideas, and collaborate. First Time Visitors If this is your first time to our site, please start with the Getting Started page. It provides an overview of how we operate and everything you need to know to get involved with the space. The Tools & Resources page provides some details on the tools, resources, and associated seminars we provide to Users of the space. Hours & Events lists the hours that the space is open as well as provide times for safety training, seminars, and other special events. Our Team tells you who we are and where our specific talents lie. In Showcase, we show off several projects created in the space to show you what is possible and hopefully to inspire. The FAQ and our Contact Us page is provided for questions. Location: 254 ET/Mudd Quick Links Livestreams FAQ Open Hours Back to Top 1220 S. W. Mudd Building, 500 West 120th Street, New York, NY 10027 © Columbia Makerspace, 2017