Home Getting Started Tools & Resources Hours & Events Our Team Showcase FAQ Contact Us The Makerspace @ Columbia Home Getting Started Tools & Resources Hours & Events Our Team Showcase FAQ Contact Us Getting Started Begin Here Getting Started Getting Started Becoming A Superuser Who can be involved with the space? Any active student, faculty, or staff of Columbia University can join the Makerspace! At this time we CAN NOT extend our facility to Alumni with a valid CU ID card. Onboarding Onboarding is mandatory for anyone wanting to become a User, and in fact, access to space is prohibited to anyone who hasn’t received this. These sessions are our safety and protocol training. They take about 30 minutes and are held multiple times throughout the week* (*Currently via Zoom). You do not need to register for these sessions in advance. Please see the calendar for scheduled onboarding sessions. Once you have completed our Onboarding training, you are considered a user. Machine Specific Training The first step after becoming a user, is to be trained on specific tools, and this training is provided by our staff and superusers. Every superuser is familiar with and able to train you on the most basic tools in the space, and you are welcome to ask them during their office hours without making an appointment. Some tools are more specialized and not every superuser can train them. For those tools, there is typically a subset of superusers that can. Check the list of superusers to determine which superuser knows which tool, and you may wish to coordinate with them for training. If you already know how to use a tool, not a problem. Speak with the superuser on duty and demonstrate that you do. They'll be happy to check you off on the tool or provide a refresher if needed. Policies As a member of the space, you are expected to know and follow these policies: Safety You must be familiar with and follow the lab safety policies outlined in the safety training. You must be trained on any tool you use in the space. Ask questions if you are uncertain about any aspect of a tool's operation. Look out for yourself and your peers. If you see anything dangerous, please report it to a superuser. Respect the space Clean up after yourself. This is both being considerate and for safety. You can only be in the space when a superuser or the lab manager is present. Also respect opening and closing times. See the calendar for listed hours. Do not circumvent any space policy or safety procedure. Respect your colleagues Be considerate of other users and superusers in the space. Share the tools. Respect the equipment Do not borrow tools from the space. Use tools for their intended purpose. Put tools and material back after using them. Refill tools that are empty. Notify the superuser on duty if the space is low or out of a certain material. Materials The space provides many materials (electronic components, cloth, wood, plastic, vinyl, etc.) for you to use. You are welcome to whatever you find in the public bins as long as you are not using a sizable portion of our inventory. Talk to a superuser for details on what quantities are reasonable. See the Tools section for specific material limits. If you are using a sizable portion of our inventory, we ask that you bring your own materials. We are happy to recommend suppliers. Back to Top 1220 S. W. Mudd Building, 500 West 120th Street, New York, NY 10027 © Columbia Makerspace, 2017