Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home Manhattanville Manhattanville Read more about Manhattanville Explore Manhattanville The Forum Visit Us! Dinosaur BBQ Places to Eat Things to Do Video Tours Tour Harlem’s Locally Roasted Dear Mama Coffee in Manhattanville Take a behind-the-scenes look at how Dear Mama located in the Jerome L. Greene Science Center creates its signature Mexico City Mocha, and meet CEO and Founder Zachary Sharaga. Experience Art and Culture in Manhattanville at the Wallach Art Gallery As the campus expands and the gallery’s public offerings grow, this video will take you on a personal tour of the Wallach to help you further explore art happening uptown. Want to Start a Small Business? This Manhattanville Resource Is Here to Help In this video, we meet Dawn Demry, the president and founder of The Little Hot Dog Wagon, which opened in 2017. The following year, Demry jump-started her career with the SBDC. Our Commitment to Community Columbia University has a long-standing history of working together with our local community, and as we build our Manhattanville campus. Check out some of our programs developed just for our neighbors. Connecting Youth Initiative Access to Facilities and Services as "In-Kind Benefits" A'Lelia Bundles Community Scholars Shuttle Bus Service for the Elderly and Disabled edit edit edit edit Two major agreements codify the University's commitment to new investment in our local community. They are the Community Benefits Agreement, in partnership with the West Harlem Development Corporation, and the Declaration of Covenants and Restrictions with Empire State Development (ESD). A Rich History 125th Street looking NW from Broadway to Riverside Drive viaduct, circa 2003 An Overview Start here to get an overview of the history of Manhattanville. From a century ago when Manhattanville was a bustling port and rail cargo hub to today where the first phase of the campus development is soon to be complete with the opening of the Columbia Business School. Sheffield Farms To commemorate the rich history of Manhattanville, Columbia has developed an exhibit called Sheffield Farms, the Milk Industry, and the Public Good. It's part of a broader understanding of this once-thriving industrial area. The exhibit can be explored online or by visiting the Nash Building. President Bollinger’s Vision Take a look at the process behind how an idea became a reality in West Harlem. Starting with when the University began working with leaders in West Harlem to develop a long-term and thoughtfully designed campus plan to the developing campus we have today. Stay Connected Get the latest updates from the Neighbors E-News, which also includes our monthly bulletin and also sign up for Construction Updates to stay informed on our progress. Neighbors E-News Construction Updates The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close