Skip to content Cornell University Cornell University Library My account Search site and Catalog Search Filter Search Library Resources This site Search Close Libraries and Hours Ask a Librarian Mann Library Library hours statusOpen until 6pm - Full Hours / Contact us Department hours statusLobby/Contactless Pickup: Open 24 Hours Search Filter Search Library Resources This site Search Main Navigation Home About Mission, Vision, Values Staff Profiles Full Hours Floor Plans Friends of Mann Library Featured Projects Use the Library Find a Space Technology Borrowing & Delivery Course Reserves Get Help Research Services Faculty & Instructor Services Outreach Poster & Specialty Printing Collections Print Collections Digital Collections Rare & Distinctive Collections Collection Development Policies News & Events News Events Calendar Chats in the Stacks Virtual Exhibits Spaces Find a Space Mann Library has a wide range of study spaces, collaborative spaces, meeting and conference rooms, and computer classrooms. Many spaces are first come, first served, and others can be reserved ahead of time. Services Collections Mann Library offers a variety of collections for use, from our on-site print and rare and distinctive (RAD) collections, to items that we’ve digitized and made available through… Meet Our Experts Amelia Kallaher Data Literacy Librarian All staff » Technology Print/Copy/Scan A color and B&W CU Print printer is located in the contactless pickup area in Mann 112, off the Mann Lobby. This space is accessible to the Cornell community 24/7. There are additional printers located on the basement level, first floor, and second floor of Mann Library. Featured News Congratulations to our 2022 Elevator Art Contest Winners! May 18, 2022 Our annual Elevator Art Contest gives Cornell undergraduate, graduate, or professional school students the chance to showcase their creative talents, win a Cornell Store prize, and inspire others... Read full story » All news » May Stressbusters @ Mann May 5, 2022 Feeling stressed? Mann Library has extended hours during study week, as well as a wide assortment of events and activities planned to help you rest and refocus! ... Read full story » All news » A New Book of Instruction – Call to Artists April 13, 2022 Calling all fiber and fashion artists! As part of the 2022-2023 Year of Textile exhibits, Cornell University Library will present A New Book of Instruction: Original Art... Read full story » All news » If you create it, we’ll elevate it! Elevator art contest at Mann & Olin Libraries March 29, 2022 Cornell students have a chance their creativity in our elevator art contest! Read full story » All news » Exhibit Expo @ Mann Library March 17, 2022 Mann Library is pleased to announce a spring 2022 Exhibit Expo highlighting our two newest exhibits! Read full story » All news » Upcoming Events See all events >> See all workshops & classes >> Libraries and Hours | Ask a Librarian Home About Use the Library Get Help Collections News & Events Daily Haiku CONTACT Mann Library 237 Mann Drive Ithaca, NY 14853 Mann Library Library Location Facebook Flickr Instagram Tumblr Help Desk: mann_circ@cornell.edu, 607 255 3296 Research Help: mann-ref@cornell.edu, 607 255 3296 ©2022 Cornell University Library, Ithaca, NY 14853 | 607-255-4144 | Privacy | Web Accessibility Assistance | Staff Login FEEDBACK GIVE TO THE LIBRARY