Skip to main content Tulane Home SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search SCHOOL OF LIBERAL ARTS » Middle American Research Institute Tulane Home MARI Home About History Staff Research Fellows Editorial & Advisory Board Associates Events Tulane Maya Symposium Brown Bags Research and Collections Exhibits GIS Lab Physical Collections Archival Collections Library Outreach & Education La Corona Archaeological Project K-12 Education Internships and Volunteering Holmul Archaeological Project Publications MARI Publications External Publications Miscellaneous Order Form Contact Us Giving Policies & Permissions Visit Us SLA News Give to SLA Apply Request Info Visit Information For… Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Information for… Alumni Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Visitors Close Close Stronger TUgether: COVID-19 RESOURCES Middle American Research Institute Languages English Español Founded in 1924, the Middle American Research Institute (M.A.R.I.) at Tulane University strives to promote greater understanding of the vibrant and diverse cultures of Middle America. It stewards an extensive collection of textiles, artifacts, and an archive of letters, field notes, maps, and photographs from the scores of field projects it has sponsored and continues to sponsor. We strive to make these accessible to researchers and the general public through a variety of exhibitions, workshops, and symposia. Furthermore, M.A.R.I. continues to support anthropological, archaeological, ethnohistorical, linguistic, and ethnographic research projects throughout Mexico and Central America. News Announcing our new publication: Archaeological Reconnaissance in Eastern Campeche, Mexico Find it in our online store! Applications for Fall 2022 internships are closed For more information, visit our Get Involved web page . New publication exposes the life and work of one of M.A.R.I.'s directors! Online Exhibit and Upcoming Events Tulane Maya Symposium Announcement Ritual Hunting of the Xavante of Brazil Ritual Hunting of the Xavante of Brazil The Middle American Research Institute is excited to announce that our new intern-designed photo exhibit is now available online! Each semester, M.A.R.I interns create an exhibit using images from the Institute's photographic collections which is displayed in the hallway outside the main gallery. Now you can view this exhibit from the comfort of your home at Ritual Hunting of the Xavante of Brazil . M.A.R.I. Brown Bags Brown Bag Events Brown bag events typically take place on Fridays around noon in Dinwiddie Hall 305. Brown Brown Bag Events invite guest speakers to host seminars at MARI on a wide variety of topics related to the archaeology, history, and ethnography of Mesoamerica and other world areas. Talks can be delivered in English or Spanish. Attendants are encouraged to bring lunch! Browse past and upcoming Brown Bag Events . "Faces of the Maya: Profiles in Continuity and Resilience" takes viewers on a journey through time, showcasing the development of the Maya civilization from 1000 BC to the present. The exhibit uses objects from the M.A.R.I collections in an attempt to dispel erroneous notions of the Maya civilization. We were proud to have it as our innaugural exhibit on the third floor of the newly renovated Dinwiddie Hall, but excited to bring a new collections of objects to the space in the coming months. Visiting hours: Monday - Friday 10am - 4pm (or by special appointment) Link to Tulane Home Page Middle American Research Institute Dinwiddie Hall, 3rd Floor Tulane University New Orleans, Louisiana 70118 Voice: (504) 865-5110 Email: mari@tulane.edu Maps & Directions Support MARI Social Media facebook twitter instagram School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List School of Liberal Arts Leadership e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources Contact Us Shakespeare Festival at Tulane School of Liberal Arts School of Liberal Arts Home e-Newsletter Join Our Mailing List Send Us Your News Give Faculty Resources NOCGS Social Media facebook twitter instagram Follow Summer Lyric Theatre facebook twitter instagram youtube Connect With the School of Liberal Arts facebook twitter instagram Tulane Home Employee Resources Jobs at Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Copyright / Privacy TulaneU TulaneNews TulaneU Tulane TulaneUniversity TulaneU TulaneUniversity © 2022 Tulane University