Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Marketing and Communications About Us Leadership Team Jason Cook Lori Fogleman Karen Kemp Jeremy Vickers Randy Woodruff Departments Digital Marketing External Affairs Media & Public Relations University Marketing & Brand Strategy Contact Us Baylor Photography Marketing and Communications About Us Leadership Team Jason Cook Leadership Team Jason Cook Lori Fogleman Karen Kemp Jeremy Vickers Randy Woodruff Departments Jason Cook Vice President for Marketing and Communications and Chief Marketing Officer Jason Cook Vice President for Marketing and Communications and Chief Marketing Officer Mr. Jason D. Cook was appointed vice president for marketing and communications and chief marketing officer for Baylor University in December 2016. He has served as a communications and marketing executive in corporate, public service, athletic, and academic settings for more than 20 years. He provides strategic communications counsel to the board, president, and president’s council, and he leads the Division of Marketing and Communications, which directs the marketing, media, and electronic communications of the University and works closely with Baylor’s schools and administrative areas to advance University priorities and increase awareness of Baylor’s mission. Prior to joining Baylor, Mr. Cook served from 2013 to 2016 as senior associate athletics director for external affairs at Texas A&M University. He previously served as Texas A&M’s vice president for marketing and communications from 2008 to 2013, during which time he played a key role in the transition to the SEC in 2012 and the establishment of Texas A&M’s “one brand” approach. For his efforts, he was named the International Brand Master of the Year by the Educational Marketing Group. In addition, he served six years as assistant vice president of media and communications for Birmingham, Alabama-based HealthSouth Corp., a Fortune 500 company at the time. Mr. Cook received a bachelor’s degree in communications summa cum laude from Mississippi State University. He earned an accreditation in public relations from the Public Relations Society of America in 2000. He and his wife, Leann, have two teenage sons, Brayden and Jace. More Information Marketing and Communications Division Office of External Affairs Media and Public Relations About Baylor Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Drupal CMS External Affairs Brand Guide Media and Public Relations Social Media Contact Us Our methodology is very simple: We take a research-driven, comprehensive approach that uses a strategic mix of communications tactics to engage, inform, and influence target audiences. Contact Us to learn more. Contact Information Marketing and Communications About Us Leadership Team Jason Cook About Us Back Leadership Team Back Jason Cook Lori Fogleman Karen Kemp Jeremy Vickers Randy Woodruff Departments Back Digital Marketing External Affairs Media & Public Relations University Marketing & Brand Strategy Contact Us Baylor Photography General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678