Skip to main content Skip to main navigation Open Mobile Navigation Marketing and Communications About Us Leadership Team Jason Cook Lori Fogleman Karen Kemp Jeremy Vickers Randy Woodruff Departments Digital Marketing External Affairs Media & Public Relations University Marketing & Brand Strategy Contact Us Baylor Photography Marketing and Communications About Us Departments University Marketing & Brand Strategy Leadership Team Departments Digital Marketing External Affairs Media & Public Relations University Marketing & Brand Strategy University Marketing & Brand Strategy The University Marketing and Brand Strategy Team works across the University to identify communications needs and plan and implement integrated communication strategies that are consistent with and supportive of the Baylor brand and meet the diverse needs of our partners. We are a team of communication professionals with a variety of skills and experiences that engages the full breadth of communication tools to advance the mission of Baylor University. Leadership Karen Kemp Advancement Marketing Leading our support of University development priorities, this team utilizes their experience and understanding of donor needs and expectations to shape key messages, narrative, and communication tools that engage and persuade philanthropic support of the University and celebrate those whose gifts have made a significant impact on the University’s progress. Todd Copeland Brand Development Working in support of University communication priorities, this team plans and implements strategies that visually expand the connection of various audiences to the University. From publication design to environmental graphics, stage production and video storytelling, this team utilizes a range of tools to support the mission and magnify messages. Clayton Thompson Jon Davis Amy McCauley Randy Morrison Coty Petersen Brand Integration Serving as lead project managers for University Marketing, this team plans, facilitates and implements strategic communication solutions to reach the marketing goals of our partners and priorities of the University. Staffed with talented marketing, communication and writing professionals, this team engages a wide range of solutions to advance the Baylor brand. Megan Henderson Cameron Barbier Debi Campbell-Perry Jayne Hattaway Jonathan Hill Larry Little Jaime McKeown Brand Strategy Communicating University Tier 1/Research 1 (T1/R1) priorities with Baylor's worldwide constituent Derek Smith Marketing Design The Marketing Design team partners with others within Marketing Communication to bring design expertise to marketing solutions. This team also oversees the University graphic standards guidelines to maximize the implementation of marks related to the University brand. Eric Yarbrough Carmen Maciel Olivia Tichavsky Photography University photography utilizes both studio and location photography to create compelling and dynamic images that tell the Baylor story. Photography maintains a library of images shot over the past three years that is accessible through an easy and secure distribution system. Robbie Rogers Matthew Minard About Baylor Baylor Magazine Baylor Proud Drupal CMS External Affairs Brand Guide Media and Public Relations Social Media Contact Us Our methodology is very simple: We take a research-driven, comprehensive approach that uses a strategic mix of communications tactics to engage, inform, and influence target audiences. Contact Us to learn more. Contact Information Marketing and Communications About Us Departments University Marketing & Brand Strategy About Us Back Leadership Team Back Jason Cook Lori Fogleman Karen Kemp Jeremy Vickers Randy Woodruff Departments Back Digital Marketing External Affairs Media & Public Relations University Marketing & Brand Strategy Contact Us Baylor Photography General Information Academics & Research Administration Admissions Gateways for ... About Baylor Athletics Ask Baylor Bookstore Calendar Campus Map Directory Give Light Give to Baylor Illuminate News Pro Futuris Search Social Media Baylor Libraries College of Arts & Sciences Diana R. Garland School of Social Work George W. Truett Theological Seminary Graduate School Hankamer School of Business Honors College Law School Louise Herrington School of Nursing Research at Baylor University Robbins College of Health and Human Sciences School of Education School of Engineering & Computer Science School of Music More Academics Athletics Human Resources Marketing and Communications Office of General Counsel Office of the President Office of the Provost Operations, Finance & Administration Senior Administration Student Life University Advancement Undergraduate Admissions goBAYLOR Graduate Admissions Baylor Law School Admissions Social Work Graduate Programs George W. Truett Theological Seminary Admissions Online Graduate Professional Education Virtual Tour Visit Campus Alumni & Friends Faculty & Staff Online Graduate Professional Education Parents Prospective Faculty & Staff Prospective Students Students Accessibility Anonymous Reporting Annual Fire Safety and Security Notice Digital Privacy Legal Disclosures Mental Health Resources Report It Title IX Copyright © Baylor® University. All rights reserved. Baylor University • Waco, Texas 76798 • 1-800-229-5678