Skip to Content Multicultural Academic and Support Services Student Development and Enrollment Services Home About Contact Programs Services Resources Events Home Updates Apply here: Access-Peer-Mentor-Application-2022 MASS has launched our new e-textbook portal in partnership with the UCF library. The list will continue to be updated weekly. Students can click here to review a list of available textbooks. Phone Mon-Fri: 8am - 5pm Phone 407-823-2716 Fax 407-823-5616 Email mass@ucf.edu Location Student Union, Room 207  Facebook  Twitter Multicultural Academic and Support Services (MASS) assists multicultural and first-generation students. It is comprised of many services and programs, including: First Generation Program – This program assists first-generation students by providing guidance and resources to promote their self-esteem, confidence, and academic achievement at the University. Brother to Brother Program – B2B is intended to increase the retention and graduation rates of multicultural and first-generation males at UCF. Workshops, rap sessions, and social events are planned in order to help this population become academically successful. Multicultural Transfer Program – Multicultural Transfer Students with a healthy entry to university life, where they can take advantage of opportunities to network and learn strategies that will help alleviate the cultural stress of acclimating to a new environment. Knight Alliance Network – Provides Foster Care alumni students with a healthy transition to become successful students here at UCF. This program will demystify the college experience, assist you with navigating through the university landscape, and help you prepare to succeed here at UCF and anywhere thereafter. Sister to Sister Program – began on the campus of UCF in fall 2018 as a grassroots effort to respond to the personal and social needs of collegiate female students. If you are interested in any of our programs, please click here! Click here >>Spring 2022 MASS scholarship Form << or get one from the MASS office. Upcoming Events Sorry, no events could be found. More Events Page Navigation Home About Contact Programs Services Resources Events Contact Us Multicultural Academic and Support Services Phone 407-823-2716 Email mass@ucf.edu Location Student Union, Room 207 University of Central Florida A-Z Index About UCF Contact UCF Internet Privacy Policy Online Degrees Pegasus Policies Regulations UCF News 4000 Central Florida Blvd. Orlando, Florida 32816 | 407.823.2000 | Accessibility Statement © University of Central Florida