Princeton Institute of Materials Off screen link: Skip to content Off screen link: Skip to search Main Menu Menu About Research Submenu Areas of Research Submenu Advanced Manufacturing and Integration for Scalable Structures Living and Soft Materials Natural and Engineered Materials for Energy, Environment, and Sustainability Optical Materials and Light Matter Interactions Quantum Materials Science Research Centers Submenu Princeton Center for Complex Materials (PCCM) Education Submenu Undergraduate Submenu What is Materials Science? MSE Certificate Program Program Courses Student Awards MSE Alumni Graduate Submenu Graduate Courses Teaching Opportunities Seminar Series Student Organizations Submenu Princeton Blacksmiths Princeton Materials Research Society (PUMRS) Princeton Optica Student Chapter Industry and Entrepreneurship Submenu Startup Companies Core Facilities Submenu Imaging and Analysis Center Micro and Nano Fabrication Center Partnership Submenu Engaging with the Institute Proposal and Project Administration People Submenu Leadership Submenu Administration Executive Committee External Advisory Council Faculty Submenu Associated Faculty Emeritus Faculty Staff Submenu Administrative Staff Research and Tech Staff Visiting/Postdoctoral Fellows and Research Associates News Events SubMenu Symposium 2021 SubMenu News Program Speakers Videos Symposium 2022 SubMenu News Program Speakers Parking Visitors Contact Search Search Princeton Institute of Materials Welcome to the Princeton Institute for the Science and Technology of Materials Materials Science and Engineering Class Day 2022 : Read Story On Monday, May 23, twenty students graduated from the Materials Science and Engineering (MSE) Program. Read Story Craig Arnold appointed vice dean for innovation : Read Story Arnold, the Susan Dod Brown Professor of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering and director of the Princeton Institute of Materials, appointed vice dean for innovation. Read Story Chen, Webb, Cohen honored for early-career excellence in research and teaching : Read Story The School of Engineering and Applied Science is honoring six assistant professors for early-career excellence in research and teaching. Read Story Howard Stone elected to the Royal Society : Read Story Stone, chair of the Dept. of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, named a Foreign Member of the Royal Society, the scientific academy of the United Kingdom. Read Story Our COVID-19 vaccines would not exist without this unsung Princeton technology : Read Story It’s a delicate craft backed by complex mathematics, and over the arc of his career, Prud’homme has become a master craftsman. Read Story 1 / 5 Start animation ▶ < > Areas of Research The mission of the Princeton Institute of Materials is to bring together scholars across disciplines to develop materials-based solutions to pressing global challenges and to educate the next generation of leaders in materials science and engineering. We enable and grow synergies and collaborations across campus that lead to breakthrough scientific and technological innovations. We are unique in our ability to combine world-leading facilities with fundamental academic research while working closely with industry, government laboratories, and other academic institutions. Advanced Manufacturing and Integration for Scalable Structures Living and Soft Materials Natural and Engineered Materials for Energy, Environment, and Sustainability Optical Materials and Light Matter Interactions Quantum Materials Science Partnership A primary objective of the Institute to stimulate interaction and collaboration with industry, government and academic institutions. Our joint research efforts are focused around five areas: Advanced Manufacturing and Integration for Scalable Structures; Natural and Engineered Materials for Energy, Environment, and Sustainability; Living and Soft Materials; Optical Materials and Light Matter Interactions; and Quantum Materials Science. Affiliates Program The Princeton Institute of Materials engages with its external partners through two routes. These are the Service and Membership Agreements. The Service Agreement provides a cost-effective entry point for companies with interest in our Core Facilities. The Membership Agreement provides a deeper connection with additional benefits and means of engagement with the Institute along with the access to the Core Facilities. Learn more about the Affiliates Program Proposal and Project Administration The business office partners with traditional departments and the larger research community across the University to support and advance the mission of the Institute by providing expertise in the area of research administration amongst others. Learn more about Proposal and Project Administration Princeton University is one of the premier locations world-wide for materials science and education due to its unique integration of long-term, curiosity-driven research and high-impact innovation and engagement with industry. Education The Princeton Institute of Materials offers a formal undergraduate program leading to a Certificate in Materials Science and Engineering, in which students take a combination of core courses within the Institute, accompanied by electives offered by affiliated departments, and participate in research with the Institute's faculty. At the graduate level, the Institute offers joint PhD degree programs with participating academic departments. MSE Certificate Program : Learn More Learn More Joint Ph.D. Degree Program : Learn More Learn More Core Facilities The Princeton Institute of Materials operates the Imaging and Analysis Center (IAC) and the Micro and Nanofabrication Laboratory (MNFL), two large scale multi-user central research facilities at Princeton University. Both facilities are professionally staffed, offer extensive training, and are open to all members of the Princeton community as well as external users. Core Facilities : Learn More The Imaging and Analysis Center (IAC) and the Micro and Nano Fabrication Center (MNFC) Learn More Footer Princeton Institute for the Science and Technology of Materials Bowen Hall 70 Prospect Avenue Princeton, New Jersey 08540 materials@princeton.edu Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Accessibility © 2022 The Trustees of Princeton University