This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Selected Department Personnel Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Core Faculty Asher Auel Associate Professor 339 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-3559 asher.auel@dartmouth.edu Algebraic geometry; Number theory; Associative rings and algebras website about My research is in algebraic geometry and number theory. I am interested in systems of polynomial equations: Do they have a solution? If so, can we parameterize all the solutions? Can a computer do this in reasonable time? After getting my Ph.D. at the University of Pennsylvania, I had an NSF postdoc at Emory University and NYU and a fellowship at the Max Plank Institute in Bonn. For the last six years I was a Gibbs Assistant Professor at Yale before arriving at Dartmouth. Many other experiences influenced me on the way to becoming a mathematician: I spent summers fighting forest fires in Oregon while deciding whether to major in math at Reed College; I decided to go to graduate school after traveling to France on a Fulbright, where I rediscovered my love for math research; during graduate school, I worked as a volunteer mechanic at a nonprofit bicycle cooperative and youth program. Inspired by my mentors along the way, I have always been motivated to give back and help students from all backgrounds find a connection to mathematics. Vladimir Chernov Professor 304 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-2421 vladimir.chernov@dartmouth.edu Manifolds and cell complexes; Differential geometry; Relativity and gravitational theory website about My research area is topology, contact and Lorentz geometry and their applications to the mathematical physics in particular to general relativity. Peter Doyle Professor 331 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-1058 peter.doyle@dartmouth.edu Combinatorics; Global analysis, analysis on manifolds; Miscellaneous website Sergi Elizalde Professor 332 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-8191 sergi.elizalde@dartmouth.edu Combinatorics website about My research interests are mostly in enumerative and algebraic combinatorics. I work on problems involving permutations, pattern avoidance, bijections, generating functions, lattice paths and Young tableaux. Lately I have also become interested in applications to dynamical systems (using permutations to distinguish between determinism and randomness) and mathematical biology (modeling chromosomal instability in cancer cells using combinatorial and probabilistic tools). I grew up in Barcelona, where I went to Universitat Politcnica de Catalunya as an undergraduate. After getting my Ph.D. from MIT, supervised by Richard Stanley, I spent a year at MSRI as a postdoc, before coming to Dartmouth. I am also the House Professor of East Wheelock House, and I like playing the piano, playing soccer, and traveling. Feng Fu Associate Professor 210 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-2293 feng.fu@dartmouth.edu Mathematical biology; Networks; Evolutionary Dynamics; Cooperation; Cancer; Infectious Diseases website about At Dartmouth, my group's research has been driven by five thrusts: (1) Evolutionary Game Theory with Applications: Population Structure and Evolution of Cooperation; (2) Computational Social Science: Evolutionary Dynamics of Human Behavior; (3) Biomedical Data Science: Dynamics of Cancer Evolution and Treatment; (4) Public Health Data Science: Behavioral Epidemiology and Network-based Interventions; (5) Computational Neuroscience: E/I Imbalance Hypothesis and Neural Synchronization. This interdisciplinary field of our research has a significant data science component, and integrates applied mathematics, social science, and computer science, evolutionary biology, and statistical physics. Our research aims to facilitate and promote interdisciplinary research that has a foundation on mathematics and also to synergistically connect evolutionary game theory with data science through data-driven mathematical modeling with real-world applications that have broad and significant impact on our society. Anne Gelb Professor 207 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-2951 annegelb@math.dartmouth.edu Numerical analysis; Developing numerical algorithms for edge detection and image reconstruction; numerical PDEs website about Anne Gelb is the John G. Kemeny Parents Professor of Mathematics. She obtained her Ph.D. from the Division of Applied Mathematics at Brown University in 1996. Following her postdoctoral fellowship at the Center for Parallel Computing at the California Institute of Technology, she was a professor in the School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences at Arizona State University until 2016 when she joined the Department of Mathematics at Dartmouth College. Her research involves developing highly accurate and efficient data-driven numerical methods for extracting important information in applications such as medical imaging, synthetic aperture radar imaging, climatology, signal processing, and fluid dynamics. Dimitris Giannakis Professor 337 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-2951 dimitrios.giannakis@dartmouth.edu Dynamical systems; Data science; Quantum information; Climate dynamics website about Dimitrios Giannakis is a Jack Byrne Professor in Mathematics. He received BA and MSci degrees in Natural Sciences from the University of Cambridge in 2001, and a PhD degree in Physics from the University of Chicago in 2009. Following a postdoctoral appointment at the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, New York University, from 2009 to 2012, he was an Assistant Professor and then Associate Professor of Mathematics at Courant until 2021 when he joined the Department of Mathematics at Dartmouth College. Giannakis' current research focus is at the interface between operator-theoretic techniques for dynamical systems and machine learning. His recent work includes the development of techniques for coherent pattern extraction, statistical forecasting, and data assimilation based on data-driven approximations of Koopman operators of dynamical systems. He has worked on applications of these tools to atmosphere ocean science, fluid dynamics, and molecular dynamics. Marcia Groszek Professor 330 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-2313 marcia.groszek@dartmouth.edu Mathematical logic and foundations; Set theory website Philip Hanlon Professor Yoonsang Lee Assistant Professor 206 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-3178 ylee@math.dartmouth.edu Applied and Computational Mathematics; Numerical PDEs, Uncertainty Quantification, Data Assimilation website about My research focuses on applied mathematics and computational issues in prediction and uncertainty quantification of complex dynamical systems. I am interested in particular in computational methods to efficiently combine numerical prediction models with data, which are scalable for big data and high-dimensional systems. Ethan Levien Assistant Professor 205 Kemeny Hall ethan.a.levien@dartmouth.edu Probability theory and stochastic processes; Mathematical biology; Statistics about Ethan Levien obtained his PhD in Mathematics in 2018 from the University of Utah, where he studied the stochastic dynamics of chemical reaction networks. He went on to spend 3 years as a postdoctoral fellow in applied mathematics at Harvard University and Brandies University before joining the mathematics department at Dartmouth. His research focuses on the role of randomness in biology, especially single-cell physiology and evolution. Peter J. Mucha Professor 240 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-9825 peter.j.mucha@dartmouth.edu Complex systems; Data analysis; Networks website about Peter Mucha is the Jack Byrne Distinguished Professor in Mathematics. After receiving his Ph.D. in Applied and Computational Mathematics at Princeton, Mucha was a postdoctoral instructor at MIT and faculty at Georgia Tech and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill before coming to Dartmouth. Mucha's research group embraces an interdisciplinary approach to data science focused on networks and network representations, working with real-world data in close collaboration with domain science experts. The research group includes postdoctoral scholars, graduate students, and undergraduate researchers working on different aspects of networks and data science, including developments in community detection, modeling network dynamics, and diffusive processes with applications to disease and health behaviors. Rosa C. Orellana Professor 319 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-2430 rosa.c.orellana@dartmouth.edu Combinatorics website about My research is in algebraic combinatorics with a focus on combinatorial representation theory and symmetric functions. I received my Ph.D. from the University of California at San Diego and was fortunate to spend one year in the UC President's Postdoctoral Fellowship Program before coming to Dartmouth. I like teaching and supervising student research. I co-founded a chapter of the Association for Women in Mathematics in an effort to increase the number of women taking and majoring in mathematics at Dartmouth. I have also organized Sonia Kovalevsky Math Days to encourage middle and high school girls in our community to study mathematics. Besides mathematics research, I also enjoy running and reading fiction. Scott D. Pauls Professor 303 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-1047 scott.pauls@dartmouth.edu Differential geometry; Data analysis; Complex systems; Applications to economics, neuroscience, sociology, and political science. website about Professor Pauls' research in mathematics focuses on building and analyzing network models for social, biological, and physical systems. In his theoretical work, he aims to find network theoretic signatures for outcomes of dynamical processes. Recently, he has been able to apply these techniques to systems in political science, economics, neuroscience, and environmental science. Ina Petkova Associate Professor 317 Kemeny Hall ina.petkova@dartmouth.edu Low-dimensional topology website about Ina Petkova studies Heegaard Floer homology and its applications to low-dimensional topology. The original definition involves heavy analysis, whereas recent computational methods rely on algebra and combinatorics. The variant of Heegaard Floer homology for links categorifies the famous Alexander polynomial. Ina is also interested in the connections between the variant for tangles (pieces of a knot) and categorified representation theory. In 2014, Ina joined the Bulgarian women’s hockey team and played in her first world championship. She has also participated in the Montreal Media Celebrity Hockey Marathon and has played for the Columbia University Women’s Ice Hockey Club. In her free time Ina also enjoys drumming. Daniel N. Rockmore Professor 233 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-3260 daniel.n.rockmore@dartmouth.edu Complex systems; Machine learning; Networks; Computational harmonic analysis website Craig J. Sutton Associate Professor 321 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-1059 craig.j.sutton@dartmouth.edu Differential geometry website John D. Trout Associate Professor 302 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-2958 jody.trout@dartmouth.edu Functional analysis; K-theory; Quantum theory; Operator Algebras, Noncommutative Geometry, Index Theory, Connes-Higson E-theory, Fredholm Manifolds website Erik van Erp Associate Professor 308 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-9837 erikvanerp@dartmouth.edu Noncommutative Geometry, Index Theory website John Voight Professor 341 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-2672 jvoight@gmail.com Number theory; Algebraic geometry; Algebraic computing website about My research interests are in number theory, with a focus on algorithmic aspects. Since the time of Diophantus of Alexandria, mathematicians have sought to understand solutions to algebraic equations in whole and rational numbers, and many fascinating questions remain unanswered. For example, what whole numbers can you obtain as the difference of two cubes of rational numbers? Such cubic equations in two unknowns define what are known as elliptic curves, and one would be hard pressed to find a more beautiful structure in abstract and computational mathematics than the group law on an elliptic curve! My research is concerned with algorithmic techniques to understand elliptic curves and their rational points, as well as the spaces that parametrize them. Dorothy I. Wallace Professor 204 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-3610 dorothy.i.wallace@dartmouth.edu Mathematical biology; Ordinary differential equations; Number theory website David L. Webb Professor 309 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-1271 david.l.webb@dartmouth.edu Differential geometry; K-theory; Global analysis, analysis on manifolds website Dana P. Williams Professor 305 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-2990 dana.p.williams@dartmouth.edu Functional analysis; Operator Algebras, Crossed products of C*-dynamical systems and Morita Equivalence website about I am a functional analyst, and my area of expertise is operator algebras. My main interests are C*-dynamical systems, C*-crossed products and groupoid C*-algebras. In the past, my work has focused on Morita equivalence of C*-algebras, the ideal structure of C*-algebras, and continuous-trace C*-algebras. I can provide thesis supervision in these areas. Peter Winkler Professor 231 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-3468 peter.winkler@dartmouth.edu Combinatorics; Probability theory and stochastic processes; Computer science website about I teach and do research in both mathematics and computer science, with emphasis in discrete mathematics, theory of computation, probability, and statistical physics. Last modified on April 21, 2022 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu