This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Math Department Course Information Application Info Applicant FAQ Course Information Current student Info Recent Ph.D.s Thesis Abstracts Please note that course meeting times and instructors are subject to change until the Timetable of Class Meetings for the specific term is published by the Registrar’s Office. Course Offerings — The Mathematics Department class schedule by term. See past and future offerings. When is a course typically offered? — This can be especially helpful to majors for planning purposes. Please note that Course Offerings (above) and the advisor to Math majors will have the most current information. Class Web Pages — Links to all course web pages. By Term By Course ORC course descriptions — Course description and information as listed in the online College bulletin (ORC). Undergraduate Graduate Topics Course Descriptions — Course descriptions of courses whose contents may vary from one offering to the next, including many graduate courses. Selected Course Syllabi — A quick reference of syllabi and web pages of recent offerings For first-years: descriptions of calculus courses 3, 8/9, 11/12, 13/14, and 23. For advanced students: descriptions of new courses, e.g., Mathematical Finance (86, 96) Last modified on March 01, 2019 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu