This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Mathematics Graduate Program: Information for Applicants Application Info Applicant FAQ Course Information Current student Info Recent Ph.D.s Thesis Abstracts Go to Application Requirements The mathematics graduate program at Dartmouth College is a small, selective program that serves students who wish to complete a PhD in pure or applied mathematics. The program is structured to serve both those who envision a career involving research and teaching as well as those who wish to continue their research in industry. It is a five-year program in which students are enrolled in each of the Summer, Fall, Winter, and Spring terms. Students who are admitted to the PhD program are offered support through a Dartmouth Fellowship or other grant for up to five years provided they continue to make satisfactory progress towards their degree. Read the PhD requirements and timeline which includes the steps towards completing your degree. If you are considering applying to the graduate program here, we advise you to review the research interests of our faculty to make sure there are a few areas of interest to you. Make sure to solidify your understanding of the advanced undergraduate courses available for your major, as this will ease your entry into graduate work. Areas which students have recently chosen for their dissertation research include algebraic number theory, algebraic topology, arithmetic geometry, combinatorics, complex networks/systems, functional analysis, knot theory, logic, mathematical biology, numerical analysis, Riemannian geometry, set theory, and signal processing. Review their thesis abstracts and advisor and job information. For additional information about our program, please visit our Graduate Student Info page and our FAQ for Applicants page. You may also contact our department administrator by email at tfmoloney@math.dartmouth.edu. Application Requirements Application deadline: TBD. All application materials must be received by the deadline in order to receive full consideration. Apply online through the Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies. Application link: https://apply.gs.dartmouth.edu/apply/ Three letters of recommendation. This year, because of complications related to the COVID-19 pandemic, both the GRE general exam and the GRE math subject exam will be optional. Submitting GRE general scores is recommended, but not necessary, and unofficial scores will be provisionally accepted. If you feel that your GRE math subject exam score contributes positively to your application, then we encourage you to submit it, and unofficial scores will be provisionally accepted. Official TOEFL scores are required for students for whom English is not their first language. This requirement can be waived for students who study for four years at a US college or university and graduate with a bachelor’s degree. Application fees are waived for all applicants. Official transcripts (and GRE scores, if you submit them) will be required if you are offered admission to the program and accept the offer. On the application, you be required to upload unofficial transcripts. The application will contain an optional space to upload a statement detailing your perspective on, experience with, and contributions to, issues of diversity, equity, and inclusion. Financial Information All of our admitted students have their tuition waived. In addition, they are supported through a Dartmouth Fellowship or other grant for five years assuming that they remain in good standing within the department. This support is in the form of a modest monthly stipend. There is nothing additional that you need to complete to receive this support. It happens automatically when you are accepted into our program. Information from the Dean of Graduate Studies Graduate Studies Website Virtual Tour View a Kemeny Hall virtual tour, created by graduate student Richard Haburcak. Last modified on August 02, 2021 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu