This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Selected Department Personnel Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Emeriti Martino A. Arkowitz Professor Emeritus martin.a.arkowitz@dartmouth.edu Algebraic topology; Category theory, homological algebra website Carolyn S. Gordon Professor Emeritus 340 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-3047 carolyn.s.gordon@dartmouth.edu Differential geometry website Thomas E. Kurtz Professor Emeritus John W. Lamperti Professor Emeritus john.w.lamperti@dartmouth.edu Probability theory and stochastic processes website Robert Z. Norman Professor Emeritus robert.z.norman@dartmouth.edu Combinatorics Carl Pomerance Professor Emeritus 344 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-2635 carl.b.pomerance@dartmouth.edu Number theory website Thomas R. Shemanske Professor Emeritus 338 Kemeny Hall · 603-646-3179 thomas.r.shemanske@dartmouth.edu Number theory website about My research is in the general area of algebraic number theory with particular interests in the theory of modular forms, quadratic forms, the arithmetic of orders in central simple algebras and applications of affine buildings. I have used the arithmetic of quaternion algebras to address questions of the representability of modular forms by theta series, and to characterize the representation numbers of quadratic forms. Other work has included aspects of the theory of newforms for integral and half-integral weight elliptic and Hilbert modular forms. My work has included the relationship of Bruhat-Tits buildings to Hecke Algebras for the general linear and symplectic groups over local fields, and recent work has used affine buildings to investigate questions surrounding selective embeddings of commutative orders into orders in central simple algebras. Last modified on April 21, 2022 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu