This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Department Personnel Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Administration — Chair and vice-chair, department administrator, administrative assistant, advisor to majors, minors, first-year students. Contact information about graduate programs and faculty positions. Permanent Faculty and Research Interests — Tenured and tenure-track faculty, research interests, web pages links. JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors — Postdoctoral Fellows appointed for a two to three year term. Adjunct and Research Professors — Includes both teaching and research appointments. Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows — Includes both teaching and research appointments. Emeriti — Former members of the permanent faculty. Staff — Affiliated support staff. Graduate Students — Current graduate students. Former Department Members — Former members of the department (all categories except emeriti). Shapiro Visitors — The Shapiro Visitor Program in Mathematics is funded through the generosity of Ed Shapiro (1916--2003), long-time friend and supporter of the Department of Mathematics. Photo Archive — Some photos of faculty, graduate students, and events. Search — Enter (partial) last name, case insensitive: Last modified on January 12, 2022 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu