This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Exploring Mathematics Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences and Meetings Special Events Math Camp 2022 (Click/tap image for PDF preview) Exploring Mathematics is a five-day in-person workshop for junior and high school students 13 years or older that meets from 1:00 to 4:00 daily. We are offering two sessions this summer: Session 1 will be from July 25–29. Topic: How to win games with math Session 2 will be from August 15–19. Topic: Solving puzzles with the mathematics of chance The workshop is sponsored by the Mathematics Department at Dartmouth and is supervised by Professor Marcia Groszek. Algebra 1 is a prerequisite for this program. The workshops are recorded to allow the instructors to review the day's activities to prepare for the next session and to improve their own teaching. We may also wish to use photos or videos in teacher preparation workshops in the future. No videos or recordings will be made public and will only be utilized inhouse by the Mathematics Department at Dartmouth College. By registering for a session you are consenting to the sessions being recorded. Please see the Consent to Record found below. Please use the comments section of the registration form to tell us anything we should know about your child. There is no fee associated with these sessions but they are limited and we ask if you register that you attend and participate. If you can't attend please let us know ASAP so we can allow another student on the waitlist to participate. Registration Form Policies & Statements Consent to Record By enrolling in the summer program “Exploring Mathematics,” I hereby consent to the recording of course activities and breakout sessions. a) I affirm my understanding that this course and any associated group meetings involving students and the instructor, including but not limited to scheduled and ad hoc office hours and other consultations, may be recorded within any digital platform used to offer remote instruction for this course; b) I affirm that the instructor owns the copyright to their instructional materials, of which these recordings constitute a part, and distribution of any of these recordings in whole or in part without prior written consent of the instructor may be subject to discipline by Dartmouth up to and including expulsion; c) I further affirm there will not be any one-on-one recordings between instructors and participants. d) I authorize Dartmouth and anyone acting on behalf of Dartmouth to record my participation and appearance in any medium, and to use my name, likeness, and voice in connection with such recording; and e) I authorize Dartmouth and anyone acting on behalf of Dartmouth to use these recording only within the Mathematics Department and only for educational purpose deemed appropriate by Dartmouth and anyone acting on behalf of Dartmouth. Last modified on May 27, 2022 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu