This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Abstracts of recent Ph.D. theses Application Info Applicant FAQ Course Information Current student Info Recent Ph.D.s Thesis Abstracts The following PhD theses abstracts are available in .pdf format. To see where these students have taken jobs, see the list of recent graduates. 2021 Evolutionary Dynamics of Human Cooperation Across Scales: Dyads, Networks, and Populations - Xingru Chen Mathematical modeling of the human circadian rhythms through wearable devices - Yitong Huang Bordered Floer homology over $\mathbb Z$ - Douglas Knowles TBD - Laura Petto New Techniques in Optimal Transport - James Ronan 2020 Pattern Avoidance in Inversion Sequences - Juan S. Auli The 2-Selmer Group of a Number Field - Ben Breen Synthetic Aperture Radar Image Formation with Uncertainty Quantification - Victor Churchill Applications of Probabilistic Combinatorics to Markov Chains, Redistricting, and Permuations - Chris Coscia Morita Equivalence of Graph and Ultragraph Leavitt Path Algebras - Michael Firrisa Evolutionary Kuramoto Dynamics - Elizabeth Tripp 2019 On the Arithmetic of Tiled Orders - Angelica Babei Orders in Quaternion and Central Simple Algebras - Sara Chari Combinatorial Proofs to Linear Algebraic Indenties - Melanie Dennis 2-group Belyi Maps - Michael Musty On Algebras of Low Rank and Belyi Maps - Samuel Schiavone 2018 Matched Products and Dynamical Models for Multiplex Networks - Daryl DeFord Intersections of Virtual Multistrings - David Freund Exploring Multiplexity with Evolutionary Game Theory and Complex Networks - Tommy Khoo Patterns in Time Series and Dynamical Systems - Katherine Moore Permutations: descents, cycles, and patterns - Justin Troyka 2017 c-Wilf equivalences of permutations - Tim Dwyer On-Line Algorithms and Reverse Mathematics - Seth Harris Linear Chord Diagrams with Long Chords - Everett Sullivan 2016 On the Poisson Relation for Lens Spaces - Dan Cianci Dynamics of Magnetic Flows on Nilmanifolds - Jonathan Epstein Orthogonal Modular Forms - Jeffrey Hein (An application to a Conjecture of Birch, Algorithms and Computations) Uniform Avoidance Coupling, Design of Anonymity Systems and Matching Theory - Ewa Infeld Finite-type invariants of order one for framed and long virtual knots - Nicolas Petit 2015 Results on Minimizing Closed Geodesics - Ian Adelstein Equivalences on Patterns in Random Walks - Megan Martinez Multiplicative Problems in Combinatorial Number Theory - Nathan McNew A function-field analogue of Conway's topograph - Michael Wijaya Generalized Fourier Transforms and their Applicatons - Sarah Wolff Boundary integral methods and their applications - Lin Zhao 2014 Permutations Realized by Signed Shifts - Kassie Archer Pattern Avoiding Permutations and Rook Placements - Jonathan Bloom $C^*$-algebras associated to directed graphs - Danny W. Crytser The Arithmetic of Cyclic Subgroups - Zebediah E. Engberg $K$-Theory for Twisted Groupoid $C^*$-Algebras - Elizabeth A. Gillapsy Bijective Combinatorics of Reduced Decompositions - Zachary R. Hamaker Aligned Hierarchies for Sequential Data - Katherine M. Kinnaird Nuclearity and Exactness for Groupoid Crossed Product $C^*$-algebras - Scott M. Lalonde Refocussing and Virtual Legendarian Knots - Asa Levi 2013 Elliptic Curves from a statistical point of view - Avram Gottschlich Capture Time in Variants of Cops & Robbers Games - Natasha Komarov 2012 Algebras Counting Self-Intersections of Curves - Patricia Cahn Selectivity in central simple algebras and isospectrality - Ben Linowitz Products of distinct cyclotomic polynomials - Lola Thompson 2011 Firefighting on Geometric Graphs - Amir Barghi Coloring Posets and Reverse Mathematics - Jared Corduan Roto-Translation Space and the Visual Cortex - Gregory C. Petrics A Mallows Model for Coxeter Groups and Buildings - Paige E. Rinker The Bloch spectrum of a quantum graph - Ralf Rueckriemen Numerically explicit estimates for character sums - Enrique Treviño 2010 On the Importance of Phase in Improving Detection of Shared Genomic Segments - G. Genovese Refocusing of Null-Geodesics in Lorentz Manifolds - Paul Kinlaw On the Density of Abundant Numbers - Mitsuo Kobayashi A Metric for Homotopy Types - Nick Scoville Aperiodicity in Topological k-Graphs - Sarah Wright 2009 Proper Actions of Groupoids on $C^*$-algebras - J. Brown Groupoid Crossed Products - G. Goehle A Composition Formula for Asymptotic Morphisms - M. Mahoney 2008 Distinguishing Complete Sets with Respect to Strong Notions of Reducibility - B. Andersen Carmichael's Conjecture and the Unit Group Function - J. Bayless Results on Off-branch Numbers - J. Bourke A Sequence of Degree One Vassiliev Invariants for Virtual Knots - A. Henrich Fast Fourier Transforms for Inverse Semigroups - M. Malandro Prime Polynomials Over Finite Fields - P. Pollack Last modified on May 25, 2021 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu