This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Selected Department Personnel Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Eran Assaf Research Associate 334 Kemeny Hall eran.assaf@dartmouth.edu Field theory and polynomials; Algebraic geometry; Number theory website about My research interests are in algebraic number theory, in particular the Langlands program, which is a part of the greater effort to understand the deep connection between representations of Galois groups and representations of the adelic points of corresponding reductive algebraic groups. This intricate connection is established by considering the action of the Galois group on geometric objects and their moduli spaces. Zhen Chen Research Associate 209 Kemeny Hall zhen.chen@dartmouth.edu Olivia J. Chu Neukom Fellow 311 Kemeny Hall olivia.j.chu@dartmouth.edu Mathematical biology; Game theory, economics, social and behavioral sciences; Biology and other natural sciences, behavioral sciences about I am a Neukom Postdoctoral Fellow in the departments of mathematics and sociology. My research focuses on the dynamics of human behavior and in particular, the effects that different forms of heterogeneity have on these dynamics. I use a combination of mathematical modeling (including evolutionary game theory and opinion dynamics models), computational simulations, and data collection and analysis. I employ these methods to study group-structured populations and the interplay between behavior, personality, group memberships, and interactions, with applications to the evolution of cooperation, social integration, and polarization. Before coming to Dartmouth, I received my Ph.D. in Quantitative and Computational Biology from Princeton, and my B.A. in Mathematics from NYU. Jan Glaubitz Lecturer and Research Associate 209 Kemeny Hall jan.glaubitz@dartmouth.edu Numerical analysis; Approximations and expansions; Scientific computing; Numerical conservation laws; shock capturing; numerical integration; image reconstruction website about I am a postdoctoral researcher in the working group of Anne Gelb at the Department of Mathematics, Dartmouth College. My research focuses on numerical analysis and high-order methods for hyperbolic conservation laws. Before joining Dartmouth, I completed my mathematical studies (B.Sc., 2014, M.Sc., 2016, Dr. rer. nat., 2019) at TU Braunschweig in Germany. Jihun Han Research Associate 209 Kemeny Hall jihun.han@dartmouth.edu Machine learning; Scientific computing; Mathematical biology Avinash A. Kulkarni Research Associate 334 Kemeny Hall avinash.a.kulkarni@dartmouth.edu Arithmetic algebraic geometry (Diophantine geometry); Local ground fields in algebraic geometry; Integral geometry about My research is in algebraic geometry and number theory, with an emphasis on computational methods. Number theorists often like to think about equations like “when is the square of a whole number equal to the cube of another whole number plus one?” Algebraic geometry tries to recast these kinds of questions in terms of geometry. For the question mentioned before, one obtains something known as an elliptic curve. One can then ask questions about how geometric features relate to the original arithmetic questions. My research concerns how features like the length, volume, or number of holes, can be used to compute information about the solutions to arithmetic questions. In my spare time, I enjoy playing the guitar, hiking, and cooking. Tongtong Li Research Associate 209 Kemeny Hall tongtong.li@dartmouth.edu Jack Petok Lecturer 320 Kemeny Hall jack.petok@dartmouth.edu Algebraic geometry; Number theory about My research interests lie somewhere between algebraic geometry and number theory. I like thinking about problems that concern classical varieties using modern techniques from algebra and number theory. I completed my PhD at Rice University under the direction of Anthony Várilly-Alvarado; in my thesis, I studied the birational geometry certain moduli spaces of hyperkähler manifolds, with a view towards Diophantine questions on K3 surfaces and hyperkahler varieties. I've also done some work on rational points on modular curves (part of Mazur's "Program B"). These days, I've been thinking about new variants on some classical constructions of Brauer classes from quadric bundles. Travis B Russell Visiting Scholar Ciaran Schembri Research Associate 334 Kemeny Hall ciaran.schembri@dartmouth.edu Number theory about My research interests are in algebraic number theory. A central object in number theory are geometric objects which also have the structure of an abelian group. My research focuses on these objects, especially those with many symmetries, and the moduli spaces which parameterise them. Much of my work is informed by computational methods. Alice Schwarze Research Associate 342 Kemeny Hall alice.c.schwarze@dartmouth.edu Zhao Song Research Associate 342 Kemeny Hall zhao.song@dartmouth.edu Networks website John W. Welborn Lecturer C. M. Mike Wong Lecturer and Research Associate 320 Kemeny Hall wong@math.dartmouth.edu Low-dimensional topology; Floer theory; contact geometry website about My primary interest is in low-dimensional topology, and specifically cobordisms of 3-manifolds, knots, links, and tangles. The main tools that I use are various versions of Floer homology and related invariants. I have also been exploring the connections between Floer theory and contact geometry. Last modified on April 21, 2022 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu