This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Information for Majors Course Information First-years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Organizations on Campus Off-Campus Opportunities The Major in Mathematics From the ORC The major in mathematics is intended both for students who plan careers in mathematics and related fields, and for those who simply find mathematics interesting and wish to continue its study. The content of the major is quite flexible, and courses may be selected largely to reflect student interests. Students who major in mathematics have an opportunity to participate in activities that bring them in close contact with a faculty member—for example, through a small seminar or through an independent research project under the direction of a faculty member. In addition to regular course offerings, a student with specialized interests, not reflected in our current course offerings, often arranges for an independent reading course. Proposals for independent activities should be directed to the Departmental Advisor to Mathematics Majors. In general, the mathematics major requires the student to pass eight mathematics or computer science courses beyond prerequisites. At least six of the required eight courses must be mathematics, and at least four of these courses must be taken at Dartmouth. In addition, a student must fulfill the College’s requirement for a culminating experience in the major (see below). Additional requirements for honors are described below in a separate section. Students are encouraged to take MATH 22/ MATH 24 as soon as feasible, since not only is it an explicit prerequisite to many upper-division courses, but also the level of mathematical sophistication developed in MATH 22/ MATH 24 will be presumed in many upper-division courses for which MATH 22/ MATH 24 is not an explicit prerequisite. The Major in Mathematical Data Science From the ORC Statistics has become a ubiquitous tool not only in traditional areas in the natural and social sciences, but in emerging cross-disciplinary fields in data science. The major combines a solid theoretical foundation with application to one or more fields of study. Students interested in this major should refer to the ORC for details on prerequisites and specific requirements for the major. Culminating Experience: Majors in Mathematical Data Science must complete a data intensive research project to satisfy the culminating experience. Students may complete this by writing a thesis, completing an independent research project, or completing a course with a significant statistical project. The culminating experience must be approved in advance by the Adviser to Majors. More Information for Majors Applied math roadmap — See the vista of applied courses at Dartmouth and their interdependencies. Pure math flowchart — The (mostly) pure mathematics flowchart. Course dependencies — Dependency graph combining both pure and applied courses. When is a course typically offered? — This can be especially helpful to majors for planning purposes. (Please note that Course Offerings and the advisor to Math majors will have the most current information.) Who advises majors? — For consistency we have one faculty member who advises all majors. What are the requirements? — What are my options in becoming a major? How much choice in courses can I exercise? Are there specific recommendations for graduate school, applied mathematics, teaching careers? Research Opportunities — Want to work with a professor on an ongoing research project? Check out the possibilities. Jobs - Lots of links. Last modified on December 16, 2021 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu