This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Topology Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Topology is the study of space up to continuous or differentiable deformations — roughly speaking, you can stretch and bend space, but you may not cut space apart or glue parts together. For example, the surface of the Earth is not perfectly round, but it is topologically the same as a sphere, because it can be deformed into one. One interesting problem is understanding the possible topological shapes of the universe we live in. Of course, the question of what the actual shape is belongs to the general field of physics, and is not likely to be answered any time soon. The common research of the members of the group is low-dimensional topology — the study of spaces of dimension up to 4. Dimensions 3 and 4 are particularly important because these are the dimensions of space and spacetime that we live in. Such spaces are impossible to draw, but they can be described mathematically through knot and link theory. Vladimir Chernov studies ordinary and virtual links. Another part of his research is about the relationship between causal structures on spacetimes and the theory of Legendrian knots coming from a branch of differential geometry called contact geometry. He is also interested in Lorentz geometry and smooth structures on spacetimes. Ina Petkova studies Heegaard Floer homology and its applications to low-dimensional topology. The original definition involves heavy analysis, whereas recent computational methods rely on algebra and combinatorics. The variant of Heegaard Floer homology for links categorifies the famous Alexander polynomial. Ina is also interested in the connections between the variant for tangles (pieces of a knot) and categorified representation theory. Members Vladimir Chernov Manifolds and cell complexes; Differential geometry; Mathematical physics Ina Petkova Low-dimensional topology Activities Topology Seminar Last modified on March 15, 2019 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu