This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Electronic Teaching Materials Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Graduate Course Videos Graduate course videos in open, royalty free WebM format. Combinatorics Through Guided Discovery An introduction to combinatorial mathematics by Kenneth P. Bogart. Before his death in 2005, Ken Bogart was in the final stages of completing an NSF-sponsored project about the teaching of combinatorics through Guided Discovery. The textbook which grew out of this project is available via the link above. The Financial Literacy Initiative at Dartmouth College The Financial Literacy Initiative at Dartmouth College advocates a quantitative approach to financial literacy for college students, K-12 students, future teachers and adult learners. The initiative supports this approach through contextually rich curriculum modules for classroom use, short video presentations for faculty development or classroom discussion, and case studies. All materials are freely available through online publication. Links to these are found on the site. Mathematics and Quantitative Education at Dartmouth The Center for Mathematics and Quantitative Education supports the teaching and learning of quantitative subjects across a variety of contexts. Collaborating with national and international projects, the Center provides resources that address a range of pedagogical concerns. Music and Computers An introduction to music and computers for upper division secondary and college students. Introduction to Probability A text designed for an introductory probability course taken by sophomores, juniors, and seniors in mathematics, the physical and social sciences, engineering, and computer science, by Charles M. Grinstead and J. Laurie Snell. Calcsite A textbook, case studies, practice problems and more that provide an introduction to calculus--its methods, techniques, and modeling capabilities. By C. Dwight Lahr. Open Calculus Open Calculus is an exportable distance-learning/self-study environment for learning calculus. Embodied in this open source project is a calculus text, online homework problems, videotapes of worked examples, and more, which have been organized and linked together in a flexible fashion. Chance This is perhaps one of the oldest, and most complete educational resources on the web. It is supported by NSF and based at Dartmouth. Laurie Snell is the main person for its existence and continued excellence. It provides up-to-date resources of chance-related topics, including the Chance News, a searchable Chance database, and various versions of the Chance course taught at different colleges and universities. It's a perfect resource for an introductory statistics class, or something similar. Mathematics Across the Curriculum This is a five-year project based at Dartmouth, funded by the NSF which involves almost all academic departments at Dartmouth College. The main purpose of the project is to develop modules for interdisciplinary courses where mathematics is a tool. There are already a number of courses offered under this project. WeBWorK This is an implementation of the University of Rochester's WeBWorK, which allows each student to get their own unique set of homework problems and receive immediate feedback on the correctness of answers via a web interface. The above link is to the courses where WeBWorK has been implemented. Last modified on March 03, 2021 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu