This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud The C. Dwight Lahr Lecture Series Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences and Meetings Special Events C. Dwight Lahr was named Emeritus Professor of Mathematics at Dartmouth College when he retired from teaching in 2014. He first joined the Dartmouth faculty in 1975 as an assistant professor. Dr. Lahr was promoted to associate professor in 1981 and assumed the roles of associate dean of faculty for sciences and dean of graduate studies. He was named full professor and dean of the faculty in 1984, thus becoming the first Black professor to get tenure in an Ivy League School department of mathematics. Dwight never forgot his roots and remained deeply committed to improving inner city public education and making math accessible and understandable to all levels. Beginning in 1994, he founded and directed CLIPP, a Dartmouth Summer Institute to develop computer literacy for inner city public school teachers. CLIPP also provided computer equipment to their schools. In 2020, the department was pleased to announce the establishment of an annual lecture series, to be called the C. Dwight Lahr Lecture Series, in memory and honor of Dwight’s contributions to the Department of Mathematics and to the College, and in recognition of his commitment to inclusivity and diversity. Dwight retired from our department in 2014 and passed away in 2016, so not all of us had the privilege of knowing him. The brief obituary contains a further link to an outline of his academic career, stating “Those who grew to know him better and interact with him daily describe him as an outstanding faculty member and professional who played a great role in pushing for the growth and support of diversity at Dartmouth.” 2021 Daniel Krashen November 16: Professional empathy  November 17: Can you hear the shape of a division algebra?  2021 Edray Herber Goins February 25: Visualizing Toroidal Belyĭ Pairs  WebM February 25: A Dream Deferred: 50 Years of Blacks in Mathematics  WebM Last modified on November 07, 2021 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu