This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Information for Current and Prospective Undergraduate Students Course Information First-years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Organizations on Campus Off-Campus Opportunities Courses - Courses open to students, descriptions, web pages, time tables, etc. First-year Students - Information about advanced placement and credit, suggested courses, and answers to many common questions of concern to prospective and first-year students. Majors - Why major in math? Who majors in math? What kinds of jobs to math majors get? How do you sign up? Minors - What kinds of minors are there in math? How flexible are the minors? What good is a minor in math? Learning Objectives - Majors and Minors Research Opportunities - Want to work with a professor on an ongoing research project? Check out the possibilities. Directed Reading Program - This program pairs undergraduate students with graduate student mentors to read and explore a mathematics topic or text over one term. The goal of the program is to enable undergraduate students to study mathematics at a deeper level than can be done in the classroom, to increase diversity in mathematics by involving undergraduates from various backgrounds, and to foster a supportive environment for students seeking to go into mathematics. Byrne Scholars Program - In honor of her late husband, insurance executive and philanthropist John J. (Jack) Byrne Jr., Dorothy Byrne of Etna, N.H., has committed $20 million to help Dartmouth attract and support the finest math students and professors. All Dartmouth applicants will be considered for this special scholarship. Honors Program - Students can receive a degree conferred with 'Honors' or 'High Honors' by satisfying the requirements of the College's Honors Program. AWM Student Chapter - A student chapter of the Association for Womxn in Mathematics at Dartmouth College. Dartmouth Math Society - To create a community where students interested in mathematics can interact and discuss mathematics in a setting outside of the classroom environment. Our goal is to encourage, foster interest in and enrich the understanding of mathematics. We intend to promote the pursuit of mathematics at all levels. Dartmouth SIAM - Established in Winter of 2012, the Dartmouth SIAM chapter was created to make students aware of possible career paths in industrial and applied mathematics, enable students to use their skills and creativity to complete projects and compete in competitions, and provide a forum for students to share their thoughts and ideas with respect to industrial and applied mathematics. We are an organization open to all interested students, with no membership dues or fees. DUJS - The Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science publishes undergraduate research and science review articles every term. Their website has weekly online news articles and archives of their print articles, along with submission guidelines. Math students are encouraged to submit papers for publication. Off-campus opportunities - Study abroad, summer research opportunities. Last modified on November 13, 2020 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu