This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Math Organizations on Campus Course Information First-years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Organizations on Campus Off-Campus Opportunities Dartmouth SIAM The Dartmouth SIAM chapter is our local student-run chapter of the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics, the leading international society promoting applied mathematics research in academia and industry. Our local chapter was established in Winter of 2012 and unites undergraduate and graduate students of all majors and disciplines with the common goal of advancing and supporting applied mathematics on campus, and in future careers. We are an organization open to all interested students, with no membership dues or fees, and as a member of our chapter, you can obtain a free membership of SIAM. Faculty advisors: Professor Scott Pauls and Professor Feng Fu Contact: society.for.industrial.and.applied.mathematics@dartmouth.edu AWM Student Chapter The Dartmouth College Association for Women in Mathematics is our local chapter of the Association for Women in Mathematics. It is open to all regardless of major or gender! The Association for Women in Mathematics is a non-profit organization founded in 1971. The AWM currently has more than 3500 members (women and men) representing a broad spectrum of the mathematical community &mdash from the United States and around the world! Since its founding in 1971 by a small but passionate group of women mathematicians, the Association for Women in Mathematics (AWM) has grown into a leading society for women in the mathematical sciences, and is one of the societies comprising the Conference Board of the Mathematical Sciences. AWM’s programs not only support those who participate in them directly, but also help influence the mathematics culture more generally, so that young women entering the field today encounter an environment that is more nurturing than that of the 1970’s and 1980’s. AWM has played a critical role in increasing the presence and visibility of women in the mathematical sciences in the nearly 50 year History of the AWM. 2021 Executive Board: Kayla Hamann ’22, Lizzie Hernández-Videa ’22 (pictured), Paola Karapataki ’22, Sonal Butala ’22, and Jenny Song ’23. Contact: association.of.women.in.mathematics@dartmouth.edu Dartmouth Math Society The purpose of the Dartmouth College Mathematical Society is to create a community where students interested in mathematics can interact and discuss mathematics in a setting outside of the classroom environment. Our goal is to encourage, foster interest in and enrich the understanding of mathematics. We intend to promote the pursuit of mathematics at all levels. The Society is a community of enthusiastic students where people can discuss news, share experiences in courses, study abroad programs, and research internships, and explore interesting topics in mathematics. Presidents: Varun Malladi ’23 (pictured) and Suzan Sena Eskalen ’23 Faculty advisors: Professor Vladimir Chernov and Professor Rosa Orellana Contact: dartmouth.mathematical.society@dartmouth.edu DUJS (Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science) Founded in 1998, the Dartmouth Undergraduate Journal of Science aims to increase scientific awareness within the Dartmouth community by providing an interdisciplinary forum for sharing undergraduate research and enriching scientific knowledge. The DUJS prints quarterly journals that include science news and review articles, along with research by undergraduates. Weekly Dartmouth Science News articles are also posted to the DUJS website. Contact: dujs.dartmouth.science@gmail.com Last modified on October 15, 2021 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu