This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Information for Current and Prospective Graduate Students Application Info Applicant FAQ Course Information Current student Info Recent Ph.D.s Thesis Abstracts Application Information - Find links to the online application system, handbooks from the Graduate Office of the College, and answers to frequently asked questions from the department. Current Student Information - Find the current department handbook for graduate students and the department's TA guide, as well as who the current advisor to graduate students and chair of the graduate program committee (GPC) are. You will also find the current syllabi for certification and in many cases, sample questions to help in your preparation for certification. Frequently Asked Questions - Questions posed by current graduate students about policy, timelines, what ifs, ... Course Information - Courses open to graduate students, descriptions, web pages, time tables, etc. Recent Ph.D.s - A listing of recent graduate students who have received their Ph.D., their advisor, and positions they have held. Thesis Abstracts - Abstracts of theses of recent Ph.D. recipients. Papers, Presentations, and Posters - Various works by current and past mathematics graduate students. Last modified on January 27, 2022 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu