This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Learning Objectives for Majors and Minors Course Information First-years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Organizations on Campus Off-Campus Opportunities Learning objectives common to majors and all minors. Students will demonstrate the ability to formulate, interpret and draw inferences from mathematical models. Students will demonstrate competence with a wide variety of mathematical tools and techniques. Students will demonstrate the ability to assess the accuracy, implications and limitations of their mathematical results. Students will demonstrate a breadth of general mathematical knowledge as well as depth in at least one area. For our minors (applied math, mathematical finance, mathematical physics, mathematical biology, etc.) and our Math modified with Philosophy major, we have two additional learning objectives: Students will demonstrate a breadth of knowledge in the associated field. Students will understand the interactions between mathematics and the associated field and demonstrate the ability to apply mathematical concepts and techniques in to problems in that field. Last modified on March 01, 2019 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu