This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud The Reese Prosser Memorial Lectures Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences and Meetings Special Events The Reese Prosser Memorial Lectures were inaugurated in 2002 by the Department of Mathematics at Dartmouth College to honor their long time colleague Reese Prosser. This lecture series was endowed by Nancy Prosser and her family. These lectures are intended to introduce the general public to mathematical research related to their daily lives. Reese loved mathematics and music. You can see his mathematical contributions here, his music with Nancy here, his sailing here, and some remarks about Reese himself here. 2021: Easy, Hard, and Impossible: The Limits of Computation Cristopher Moore, Professor at the Santa Fe Institute. WebM 2021: Given Any Five Cards Colm Mulcahy, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, Spelman College. WebM 2019: Mathematics and science: the Abel and Nobel Prizes Björn Engquist, Computational and Applied Mathematics Chair I and Director of the ICES Center for Numerical Analysis, University of Texas at Austin. 2018: Snow Business: Scientific Computing in the Movies and Beyond Joseph Teran, Professor of Mathematics, UCLA. 2018: Mathematical Insights and Intuition Po-Shen Loh, Associate Professor of Mathematics, Carnegie Mellon University; National Coach, USA International Math Olympiad team; founder of Expii. WebM 2016: From Erdos to Algorithms Joel Spencer, Professor of Mathematics and Computer Science, NYU Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences. WebM, MP4 2015: Some People Have all the Luck… Or do they? Skip Garibaldi, research mathematician at IDA. WebM, MP4 2014: Falling Paper and Insect Flight Z. Jane Wang, Professor of Physics and Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Cornell University WebM, MP4 2013: A Flight of Curiosity — A Mathematician's Tale Dr. William Taber, Technical Group Supervisor for the Mission Design and Navigation Software Group at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, CA. 2012: The Mathematics of Crime Andrea Bertozzi, Director of Applied Mathematics, University of California Los Angeles. 2011: From Democratic Consensus to Cannibalistic Hordes: The Principles of Collective Behavior Iain Couzin, Assistant Professor, Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology & Program in Applied and Computational Mathematics, Princeton University. QuickTime, WebM 2010: From the Cosmos to the Quantum: How Mathematical Theories of Symmetry Grew from and Gave back to Physics Stephanie Singer. QuickTime, WebM 2009: Mathematical Models of Social Media and the News Cycle Jon Kleinberg, Tisch University Professor, Cornell University. RealMedia 2008: Unearthing the Visions of a Master: The Legacy of Ramanujan’s Last Letter Ken Ono, Hilldale Professor of Mathematics, University of Wisconsin. QuickTime, WebM 2007: The Riemann Hypothesis: Unsolved Mysteries of the Primes! J. Brian Conrey, Executive Director, American Institute of Mathematics. QuickTime, WebM 2006: Tales of the Dodecahedron: from Pythagoras through Plato to Poincaré John Baez, University of California, Riverside (slides) 2005: The Modern Mathematics of Motion Capture — from Muybridge through Disney and Beyond Chris Bregler, Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, New York University. QuickTime, WebM 2004: Artful Mathematics — the quantification of style Daniel Rockmore, Dartmouth College RealMedia 2003: The Emerging Science of Spontaneous Order. Steven Strogatz, Cornell University 2002: Risk and Revolution: Casanova, Napoleon, and the French Lottery. Stephen Stigler, University of Chicago Last modified on October 26, 2021 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu