This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Geometry Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Hyperbolic geometry Isospectral plane domains Geometry is the study of rigid properties of space such as distance, angle and curvature. The surface of the earth, with all its mountains and valleys, is topologically the same as a round sphere but is geometrically very different. A major focus of the geometry group at Dartmouth is Riemannian geometry. Examples of questions addressed by members of the Dartmouth geometry group include: The Inverse spectral problem: How much geometric information about an object is encoded in spectral data? For example, viewing a bounded region in the plane as the surface of an exotically shaped drum, the question appealingly phrased by Mark Kac as “Can one hear the shape of a drum?” asks whether the spectrum of characteristic frequencies of vibration of the drum encodes the shape of the region. We also consider more geometric spectral data such as the “length spectrum”, the collection of lengths of closed geodesics. The symmetries of a Riemannian manifold form a Lie group. How are the algebraic properties of this Lie group related to the geometry of the Riemannian manifold? Geometry interacts naturally with nearly every area of mathematics. For example, the inverse spectral problem connects with analysis, combinatorics, group theory and number theory. Members Peter Doyle Hyperbolic geometry Carolyn Gordon Riemannian geometry, especially spectral geometry and Riemannian homogeneous spaces Craig Sutton Riemannian geometry, especially spectral geometry and Riemannian homogeneous spaces David Webb Differential geometry; K-theory Activities Geometry Seminar Last modified on April 17, 2019 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu