This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud What’s happening in Math Registration open for Summer Math Camp: Exploring Mathematics Image courtesy of Bjoern Muetzel. Welcome to Dartmouth Mathematics View Course Information The Majors in Mathematics and Mathematical Data Science Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion The Jack Byrne Scholars Program Open Faculty and Postdoctoral Positions View Recent Publications Outreach Math Camp 2022: Exploring Mathematics Sharpen your problem solving skills and find out what college math is like! This year we are hosting Math Camp in-person, offering two summer enrichment sessions for local high school students in July and August. Topics covered will be outside of the usual high school syllabus and students can interact with mathematicians in a fun, non-graded environment, where an exploratory approach will be emphasized. Each program will cover different mathematical topics and students are invited to attend one or both 5-day sessions. This year’s sessions are How to win games with math and Solving puzzles with the mathematics of chance. There is no charge for this program. View more info and registration link. (Click/tap to view a larger image.) Undergraduate News 2022 Thayer Prize Exam winners The Math Department is pleased to announce impressive results in this year’s Thayer Prize Exam, an annual first-year Dartmouth mathematics competition organized by our department. Congratulations to first place winner Matthew Coleman ’25 and second place winner Jessica Jiang ’25! In his previous studies, Matthew won Mathematics Award for Outstanding Student and was named a Commonwealth Honors Scholar. Jessica was first violinist of the Wisconsin Youth Symphony Orchestra’s Youth Orchestra, and is currently a first violinist in the DSO. She intends to study applied mathematics and music. You may view the list of winners from the last 12 years along with a brief history of the prizes, which were established in 1869 to “to constitute a perpetual prize fund for superior proficiency in the higher branches of Mathematics.” The exam consists of Mathematics Olympiad style problems, and originality and creativity are heavily weighed. Faculty News Can a machine learn to write compelling product reviews? Could you tell if an online review describing the palate-pleasing notes of grapefruit and tangerine in your off-dry Riesling was written by a human, or by an algorithm? Professor Dan Rockmore is part of a team that developed software to produce original expert wine reviews and syntheses of beer reviews using existing datasets and product metadata. Both approaches use transformer-based deep learning neural net architecture. Started by former Neukom Institute fellow Allen Riddell, right, and developed under Rockmore’s guidance by Keith Carlson, Guarini ’21 and postdoctoral research fellow at Tuck, the project became a cross-campus collaboration resulting in a paper in the International Journal of Research in Marketing. Practical applications include tools to assist consumers and professional reviewers, although the paper acknowledges and explores the inherent ethical implications involved. Read more in Dartmouth News and Scientific American, and listen to a short fun segment on BBC Tech Tent (@18:35). More news Recent Publications Sequential Image Recovery from Noisy and Under-Sampled Fourier Data Yao Xiao, Jan Glaubitz, Anne Gelb, Guohui Song Journal of Scientific Computing A bipartite graph-based expected networks approach identifies DDR genes not associated with TMB yet predictive of immune checkpoint blockade response William H. Weir, Peter J. Mucha, William Y. Kim Cell Reports Medicine Unramified Brauer groups of conic bundle threefolds in characteristic two Asher Auel, Alessandro Bigazzi, Christian Böhning, Hans-Christian Graf von Bothmer American Journal of Mathematics More publications Upcoming Events: Wednesday, June 1 5:30 p.m. Directed Reading Program Final Presentations Tuesday, June 7 2:30 p.m. Algebra and Number Theory Seminar Weekly Calendar | Subscribe | Edit Subscribe to Math events in your calendar: https://math.dartmouth.edu/dartmath.ics webcal://math.dartmouth.edu/dartmath.ics Powered by GNU / Linux Department of Mathematics 27 N. Main Street 6188 Kemeny Hall Hanover NH 03755-3551 603.646.2415 deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu