This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Special Events Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences and Meetings Special Events Please check the daily events calendar for all the latest departmental events. Apr 07 2021 Special talk by Mary Gray, Distinguished Professor of Mathematics and Statisics at American University Don’t Say No! A Mathematician’s Journey into Human Rights dartgo.org/marygrayzoomlink Mary Gray, Distinguished Professor of Mathematics and Statistics at American University, will give a special public lecture titled “Don’t Say No! A Mathematician’s Journey into Human Rights” at 7 p.m. on Wednesday, April 7 via Zoom. Professor Gray researches and applies statistics and law to address human rights and equity throughout the world. Early in her career, she co-founded and served as first president of the Association for Women in Mathematics. Among her many honors, she has received a Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Engineering and Mathematics Mentoring, the Karl E. Peace Award for Outstanding Statistical Contributions for the Betterment of Society, and honorary degrees from three institutions. Dartmouth’s own AWM Student Chapter is sponsoring this very special public event. May 15 2020 Celebration of Women in Mathematics: Inspiring Film and Discussion In 2014, Maryam Mirzakhani electrified the world mathematical community by becoming the first woman, and also the first Iranian, ever to win the Fields Medal, the highest prize in mathematics. Sadly, she passed away only three years later at the age of 40. Her birthday, May 12, has been named an annual international day of celebration of women in mathematics. Secrets of the surface, the Mathematical Vision of Maryam Mirzakhani is a very recent film of George Csicsery. Filmed in Canada, Iran, and the United States, it presents both Maryam Mirzakhani's brilliant mathematical vision and her vibrant life as mathematician, inspiring teacher/mentor, and mother. First view the film at a time of your convenience, then join the informal online discussion: Discussion May 15, 4:30 p.m. EDT https://dartmouth.zoom.us/j/95857664713 Meeting ID: 958 5766 4713 Asma Hassannezhad (University of Bristol), an Iranian woman in mathematics, and attendees will discuss the film and share their perspectives. To gain access to the film, which has not yet been publicly released, please go to the request for screening authorization and fill in the form. After putting in your contact information please select “Individual” under “Type of Screening” as well as the date (on or before May 15) on which you’d like to view the film. Under Organizer name please put Petra Bonfert-Taylor and Carolyn Gordon. Nov 07 2019 Special talk: Evelyn Lamb, mathematician and freelance writer Building a Creative Career in Mathematics Jan–Feb 2019 Essay Contest: Biographies Of Contemporary Women In Mathematics Nov 09 2018 Celebration of Science at Dartmouth: Ken Golden ’80, University of Utah Modeling the Melt: What Math Tells Us About Disappearing Polar Sea Ice Apr 28 2018 Sonia Kovalevsky Day at Dartmouth A fun-filled day of mathematics with hands-on workshops and talks for middle and high school female students and their teachers, both women and men. Originally started and funded by the Association for Women in Mathematics, the purpose of the day is to encourage young women to continue their study of mathematics and to assist the teachers of female mathematics students. Jul–Aug 2017 Exploring Mathematics — Summer Math Camp Sessions May 13 2017 Sonia Kovalevsky Day at Dartmouth May 06 2017 Johns Hopkins Center for Talented Youth workshops Apr 04 2017 The Jack Byrne Scholars and The Dartmouth Math Society present a talk by Scott Brodie, MD, PhD. Apr 03 2017 The Jack Byrne Scholars and The Dartmouth Math Society present a talk by Scott Brodie, MD, PhD. May 10 2016 LMFDB 1.0 Release Party The L-functions and Modular Forms Database: An Atlas to Explore the Mathematical Universe May 07 2016 Sonia Kovalevsky Day at Dartmouth Jul–Aug 2010 Exploring Mathematics — Summer Math Camp Sessions Aug 14 2009 Midsummer Math Music Festival Jul 2009 Exploring Mathematics — Summer Math Camp Sessions Last modified on March 25, 2021 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu