This website uses features that are not well-supported by your browser. Please consider upgrading to a browser and version that fully supports CSS Grid and the CSS Flexible Box Layout Module.  Department of Mathematics Menu INFORMATION FOR: Prospective Undergraduates Prospective Graduate Students Alumni Quick Links Contact Info Calendar of Events Class Schedule Course Web Pages Recruiting Research Electronic Materials Honors Newsletter Computing Resources Intranet Undergraduate Course Information For First-Years Majors Minors Learning Objectives Research Opportunities Directed Reading Program Byrne Scholars Program Honors Program Career Information Math Orgs on Campus Off Campus Opportunities Grader Application Graduate For Applicants For Current Grad Students Course Information Recent Ph.D.s Recent Theses People Administration (Contact Info) Core Faculty JWY, ACM, and Byrne Instructors Adjunct and Research Professors Research Associates, Lecturers, and Fellows Emeriti Staff Graduate Students Former Members Shapiro Visitors Photo Archive All Members / Search Research Algebra and Number Theory Applied and Computational Mathematics Combinatorics and Discrete Mathematics Functional Analysis Geometry Logic Topology Graduate Research Undergraduate Research Research Seminars Recent Publications Activities Calendar of Events Course Information Undergraduate Activities REU Colloquia Seminars Recruiting Prosser Lectures Kemeny Lectures Lahr Lectures Conferences & Meetings Special Events News & Resources Department News and Happenings Faculty Honors and Recognition Student Prizes and Awards Department History Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Electronic Teaching Materials Math Research Support Guide Computing Resources WeBWorK Math Webmail Math Cloud Information for Current Graduate Students Application Info Applicant FAQ Course Information Current student Info Recent Ph.D.s Thesis Abstracts Welcome! For the academic year beginning Summer Term 2021, The Advisor to Graduate Students is: Rosa Orellana. The Graduate Representative is: Vladimir Chernov. The chair of the Graduate Program Committee is: Peter Winkler. The other members of the GPC are: Peter Doyle, Anne Gelb, Dan Rockmore, and John Voight. Feel free to see any of us, or indeed any professor, if you have questions about the graduate program. General Policies - Hopefully the definitive source for degree requirements, policies, deadlines, advising, grievances, as well as a good dose of supportive advice. For classes admitted before 2020 [Last updated 2020-10-22] For classes admitted starting 2020 [Last updated 2022-05-13] (pdf) (html) First-year resources - Current syllabi for first-year core courses and preliminary exams, as well as sample exams. TA Reference - Your job as a teaching assistant assigned to a mathematics class is to help the instructor teach and to help the students learn. Exactly what this means will depend on the class and the instructor. This document attempts to outline general department policies and College regulations that apply to all TAs, as well as to pinpoint some resources and contacts that might be useful to you. The Guide - Now What - A guide for graduate students written by Mark L. Tomforde (Ph.D. 2002) more fully titled: "I've passed my quals, now what?" (A guide for Ph.D. candidates in mathematics at Dartmouth College). Mark offers a great deal of insight into the entire process of choosing an advisor and successfully writing your thesis. LaTeX PhD thesis template (.zip archive) Authored by Francois Dorais and updated by Geoff Goehle, David Freund, Daryl DeFord. Last updated August, 2017. Dartmouth Center for the Advancement of Learning - all services are available to graduate students. FAQ Last modified on January 28, 2022 Powered by GNU / Linux Mathematics at Dartmouth 27 N. Main Street | 6188 Kemeny Hall | Hanover NH 03755-3551 | 603.646.2415 | deptaa@math.dartmouth.edu