Skip to main content NC State Jenkins MBA Jenkins MBA Menu Close About Facts and Rankings Mission and History Faculty and Staff Directory Meet Our Faculty Centers and Initiatives Location Contact Us FAQs Admissions Application Deadlines Admissions Events Tuition and Financial Aid Prospective Students One Day to MBA Military Information Academics Full-Time MBA Professional Evening MBA Professional Online MBA Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs 2+2 Program Concentrations Global Experiences Culture & Community See Yourself at NC State Class Profiles Student Organizations Current Students Alumni Career & Leadership Career Management McLauchlan Leadership Series MBA Residency News Poole Thought Leadership Give Now About About Facts and Rankings Mission and History Faculty and Staff Directory Meet Our Faculty Centers and Initiatives Location Contact Us FAQs Admissions Admissions Application Deadlines Admissions Events Tuition and Financial Aid Prospective Students One Day to MBA Military Information Academics Academics Full-Time MBA Professional Evening MBA Professional Online MBA Dual Degree Programs Certificate Programs 2+2 Program Concentrations Global Experiences Culture & Community Culture & Community See Yourself at NC State Class Profiles Student Organizations Current Students Alumni Career & Leadership Career & Leadership Career Management McLauchlan Leadership Series MBA Residency News News Poole Thought Leadership Poole Thought Leadership Give Now Sweet Dreams Current MBA student Sarah Millsaps, is opening up Bright Spot Donuts in her hometown of Raleigh, while balancing a full-time course load and summer internship at NetApp. Learn More Join the Pack We’re teaching students to become the well-rounded business leaders of tomorrow. Learn more about the application process. APPLY NOW Think and Do the Extraordinary Your support can help the next generation of MBA students. GIVE NOW Your Questions, Answered Schedule a visit to campus or learn more about our programs. CONNECT WITH US IN THE SPOTLIGHT The Jenkins Spotlight Series II The Jenkins MBA Spotlight Series is a ten-part interview series hosted by Jenkins MBA Admissions Recruiter, Sarah Danaher and Assistant Director of Admissions, Riley Hutchison. Each episode features different students and alumni from various backgrounds and interests as they talk about their Jenkins MBA experience. Explore Let’s Get Started Upcoming Events All Events May 31 Tuesday6:00 PM Jenkins MBA Virtual Information Session Jun 21 Tuesday12:00 PM Master of Management, Risk and Analytics Info Session Mar 12 Sunday10:00 AM Free Tax Return Assistance #12 Best Online MBA Program —The Princeton Review, 2021 MBA Alumni Spotlight Andrew Bowker, Full-Time Graduation Year: 2019 Position: Offering Manager Company: IBM Learn More Features and Announcements More News Sweet Dreams Current MBA student Sarah Millsaps, is opening up Bright Spot Donuts in her hometown of Raleigh, while balancing a full-time course load and summer internship at NetApp. Poole College Welcomes 6 New Advisory Board Members The NC State College of Management announces six new members to the college’s advisory board for the 2021-23 term effective April 1. Poole Podcast Season 2, Episode 4: How AI is Driving Data Decisions in Business, with Haroon Abbu and Bill Rand Bill Rand and Haroon Abbu dive into AI and how it’s taught in the classroom. ncstatemba That’s a wrap for our German Wolfpack! Our 18 ... Open “Traveling abroad like this changes your ... Open “I’ve been impressed by the level of ... Open “Cultural experiences like this help accelerate ... Open “I’ve learned just as much from the culture as... Open This trip to Munich has resulted in the most ... Open I wanted to see the work culture outside of the US... Open “This city and the people are amazing! Learning ... Open “It’s been really interesting to see the ... Open “It’s been surprising to see how much German ... Open “I’m seeing today, that one failure in the ... Open “I think innovation begins by looking at the ... Open “Sustainability seems to be a big recurring ... Open “I thought I knew a lot about Germany but I ... Open “I love to travel. Since everything has been ... Open "I joined this program because every travel ... Open “It’s only been a few days, but I can’t stop... Open “I’m most excited about the new people and the... Open "I came along to see different cultures and ... Open Our study abroad students made a return to Munich ... Open Load More Jenkins MBA Home Nelson Hall Campus Box 8114 Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.5584 Interested in Learning More? Join one of our upcoming information sessions! Apply Give College Directory Poole College of Management Events News Contact Privacy Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.