Skip to main content Google Tag Manager SEARCH: Limit search to: MBG Cornell Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics Back to top menu About Us History Facilities and Resources Biotech Building and Reservations Grants Administration Student Appointment Form CALS Online Grade Change Form File Storage Peer Support Network Department Leadership and Contacts Undergraduate Biology Major Office of Undergraduate Biology Summer Research Experience (REU) Application Recommend a Student Participating Mentors Outcomes FAQs Graduate Biochemistry, Molecular, and Cell Biology Genetics, Genomics, and Development Biophysics Cellular, Biochemical and Molecular Sciences (CBM) Predoctoral Training Program People Faculty Emeriti Faculty Research Associates, Post-Docs, and Research Staff Graduate Students Administrative & Building Staff Department Leadership and Contacts Research Research Groups Faculty Research Alani Lab Members Publications Aquadro Lab Barbash Lab Bretscher Lab Brown Lab Lab Activities Members Publications Research Interests Clark Lab Crickard Lab Douglas Lab Emr Lab Feigenson Lab Feschotte Lab Fox Lab Alumni Fromme Lab Grimson Lab Hanson Lab Henry Lab Publications Research Interests Hu Lab Ke Lab Kellogg Lab Koren Lab Kwak Lab Lee Lab Lis Lab Liu Lab Mao Lab Nicholson Lab Contact Interests Members Alumni Papers Pictures Current Projects Pleiss Lab Pugh Lab Richards Lab Schimenti Lab Smolka Lab Tumbar Lab Wolfner Lab Weill Institute for Cell and Molecular Biology Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Current Actions MBG Peers and Allies Resources & Training News & Events News and Publications Events and Seminars Jobs Faculty Positions Post-Doctoral Positions Staff Positions Awards Harry and Samuel Mann Outstanding Graduate Student Award George P. Hess Travel Award Calvo Teaching Award LPS Awards Wellnitz Award Graduate Programs Back to top Home Graduate The more than 150 Ph.D. students in graduate fields within in the Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics engage in world-class, multidisciplinary training in the biological and biomedical sciences. They study a wide range of research topics from cellular organelle functions, to DNA replication and repair, to the molecular structure of spider silk and why it is five times stronger than steel. Through solid scientific investigation, they are making strides toward greater understanding of the governing principles of life. Graduate Fields within MBG At Cornell, graduate education is organized by Fields, defining areas of scientific endeavor that cross departmental boundaries. The Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics is the primary home of the Graduate Fields of Biochemistry, Molecular and Cell Biology and Genetics, Genomics, and Development, as well as an important participant in the Field of Biophysics. Biochemistry, Molecular, and Cell Biology The Graduate Field of Biochemistry, Molecular and Cell Biology (BMCB) at Cornell University provides top-ranking, multidisciplinary training in diverse aspects of biological and biomedical sciences. Research topics include transcription, RNA processing, DNA replication and repair, membrane trafficking, the cytoskeleton, signal transduction, metabolic regulation, enzyme structure and mechanism, organelle function, biophysics of protein-protein and protein-lipid interactions, and virology. Learn More BMCB Genetics, Genomics, and Development The Graduate Field of Genetics, Genomics, and Development (GG&D) is ideally suited for students who want to uncover the fundamental genetic, biochemical, developmental, and cell biological principles that govern life. Students obtain outstanding training in analytical tools that enable them to understand the mechanisms of inheritance, development, mutation, gene regulation, and population structure and evolution. The GG&D Field builds on the strong tradition of interdisciplinary training at Cornell and is composed of more than 55 faculty members from 15 departments in 5 colleges. Learn More GGD Biophysics The Graduate Field of Biophysics encompasses a diversity of interdisciplinary research topics. Biophysicists seek to understand the fundamental processes of life by applying the methods of physics and chemistry to biological systems. To investigate life at this most basic level, biophysicists use some of the most powerful tools available - X ray crystallography, optical and laser spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy, and advanced computational science. Learn More Biophysics Future Leaders in Molecular and Cellular and Cellular Mechanisms (FLMCM) Predoctoral Training Program The mission of the Future Leaders in Molecular and Cellular Mechanism (FLMCM) Predoctoral Training Program at Cornell University is to provide diverse trainees with foundational training in cellular, biochemical, and molecular sciences, with a strong focus on multidisciplinary research that seeks to uncover the mechanistic principles of fundamental processes that govern all forms of life, and to understand how these mechanistic principles impact health and disease. We aim to develop a diverse pool of scientists who have the necessary skills to conduct independent rigorous research and be successful in a wide array of careers in the biomedical research enterprise. The FLMCM program is also committed to take a leading and influential role in modernizing graduate education in the life sciences on the Cornell campus in Ithaca and beyond. Learn more about FLMCM Other MBG-Related Graduate Fields Many MBG faculty are also active members of and accept students from several other graduate fields, including: Applied Mathematics Applied Physics Biomedical and Biological Sciences Biomedical Engineering Chemistry and Chemical Biology Computational Biology Ecology and Evolutionary Biology Plant Biology Environmental Toxicology Food Science and Technology Microbiology Nutrition Plant Biology A full listing of all graduate fields at Cornell University can be obtained from the Graduate School. MBG Diversity Council Graduate students from the three Fields administered in the department have formed the MBG Diversity Council. Its mission is to promote, enhance and expand the diversity of the MBG community and, in doing so, create an inclusive environment for all. All students, postdocs, staff and faculty in MBG and associated Fields are welcome to join; for more information, go to their website. Diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) are major priorities at MBG and are supported by students, faculty, and staff of MBG. Graduate Biochemistry, Molecular, and Cell Biology Genetics, Genomics, and Development Biophysics Cellular, Biochemical and Molecular Sciences (CBM) Predoctoral Training Program Faculty Spotlight Tudorita Tumbar Doina Tumbar is a Professor in the Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics. Dr. Tumbar is a member of the Graduate Field of Genetics, Genomics and Development (GGD), the Graduate field of Biochemistry Molecular and Cell Biology (BMCB), and the Field of Biomedical and Biological Sciences (BBS). The Tumbar lab studies the molecular mechanisms controlling cell fate of tissue stem cells in mouse skin. Learn more about Tudorita Tumbar Contact Us Molecular Biology & Genetics 107 Biotechnology Building 526 Campus Road Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14853-2703 Phone: (607) 255-2203 Fax: (607) 255-6249 Support the Department: Give to MBG © 2022 Cornell University Secondary menu Web Accessibility Assistance Privacy Policy College of Agriculture & Life Sciences College of Arts & Sciences CALS Help Desk Service Request Log in