Skip to content Primary Menu People All Faculty Students Alumni Staff Areas of Interest Biophysical and Structural Biology Computational Biology Cancer Biology Cell Signaling & Cell/Environment Interactions Developmental Biology, Stem Cells & Aging Gene Expression, Cell Cycle & Chromosome Biology Genetics, Genomics & Evolution Microbiology, Infection & Immunity Neuroscience MCB Program Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Committee Mental Health Resources COVID-19 Resources Program Requirements Joint Degrees & Related Programs Current Student Resources Incoming Student Resources Faculty Resources Affiliated Programs MCB Newsletters Donate to MCB Prospective Students About the MCB Program Application Process MCB Admission FAQ Life in Seattle Undergraduate Internships Courses Discovery … Seattle MCB students look towards scientific horizons to make ground-breaking discoveries in all aspects of cellular and molecular biology. Community … From our students to our faculty to our staff, Seattle MCB is an interactive community that enriches personal and scientific life. Dedication … Seattle MCB students are highly motivated to dive deep into research questions and uncover new scientific principles. Mentoring … Seattle MCB faculty work closely with students in both the classroom and the lab. This close mentorship leads to achievement of common goals. Diversity … The Seattle MCB program recognizes that diverse backgrounds and approaches are needed to achieve success in cutting-edge research. Vision … The Seattle MCB program focuses on guiding students towards their unique paths in research and careers. Leadership … Seattle MCB faculty are often "in the benches" with students to achieve common research goals. Welcome to MCB in Seattle! Well-trained scientists steeped in many disciplines are needed to develop next-gen technologies and lead multi-faceted research teams for new scientific discoveries. With our exceptional faculty across 5 institutes, Seattle MCB provides broad and flexible training in the life sciences, opens opportunities at the forefront of technology development, and encourages team building, mentorship, and leadership. Seattle MCB students tailor their education to meet their scientific and career goals. News & Events Our Partners Seattle Children’s Benaroya Research Institute Pacific Northwest Research Institute Quick Links MCB Contact Info Donate to MCB Log into MCB UW Graduate School MCB Seminar Calendar © 2021 Copyright University of Washington. All rights reserved. Privacy Policy | Terms of Use Facebook Twitter LinkedIn