Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry Search Menu Site Navigation Home About MCB People Events Lecture Series News & Announcements Calendar & Room Reservations Academics Courses Undergraduate Graduate Program HHMI Program Community Research Centers Common Equipment Resources & Core Facilities Search Division of Biology and Medicine Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry Date April 7, 2022 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email Nicolas Fawzi wins 2022 Protein Science Young Investigator Award The Protein Science Young Investigator Award, sponsored by Wiley, recognizes a scientist in the first 8 years of an independent career who has made an important contribution to the study of proteins. Nicolas Fawzi, associate professor of medical science The Protein Science Young Investigator Award, sponsored by Wiley, recognizes a scientist in the first 8 years of an independent career who has made an important contribution to the study of proteins. The 2022 recipient is Professor Nicolas Fawzi (Brown University). Professor Fawzi is an internationally recognized leader in a field that his technological advances have helped to found. Dr. Fawzi uses solution NMR spectroscopy to investigate the structural biology of biomolecular condensates and the biophysical chemistry of the disordered regions of RNA‐binding proteins. Dr. Fawzi’s efforts were among the first to bring structural clarity to proteins following phase separation. His research described, for the first time, how three of the most important proteins in ALS remain structurally disordered in normal function and how mutations change transient structure and lead to protein aggregation in the disease. Work from the Fawzi lab has provided molecular insight into the physiology of membrane-less organelles and their pathological dysfunction associated with cancer and neurodegenerative disorders, subjects of studies that were previously hampered by an inability to characterize these poorly understood proteins at atomic resolution. His current efforts to visualize protein structures and contacts within condensates with higher resolution and with more complex compositions (including in cells) seeks to establish an exciting new frontier. Protein Society Awards Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About MCB People Events Lecture Series News & Announcements Calendar & Room Reservations Academics Courses Undergraduate Graduate Program HHMI Program Community Research Centers Common Equipment Resources & Core Facilities This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Nicolas Fawzi wins 2022 Protein Science Young Investigator Award Open details for Nicolas Fawzi wins 2022 Protein Science Young Investigator Award Bookmark this Page