Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry Search Menu Site Navigation Home About MCB People Events Lecture Series News & Announcements Calendar & Room Reservations Academics Courses Undergraduate Graduate Program HHMI Program Community Research Centers Common Equipment Resources & Core Facilities Search Division of Biology and Medicine Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry News & Announcements Keep up with MCB news and events. Sub Navigation In This Section People Events Lecture Series News & Announcements Calendar & Room Reservations News & Announcements Keep up with MCB news and events. Recent News April 7, 2022 Nicolas Fawzi wins 2022 Protein Science Young Investigator Award The Protein Science Young Investigator Award, sponsored by Wiley, recognizes a scientist in the first 8 years of an independent career who has made an important contribution to the study of proteins. March 10, 2022 News from Brown Brown researcher to lead $16M grant to explore potential cause, treatment for Alzheimer’s disease Led by principal investigator John Sedivy, a multi-university effort will build on recent discoveries about mechanisms of aging to understand causes and potential treatments for neurodegenerative diseases. January 26, 2022 NEWS FROM BROWN Professor Atwood Elected AAAS Fellow Walter Atwood, PhD, Vice Chair of MCB is elected as a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the world’s largest general scientific society, an honor bestowed upon AAAS members by their peers, who nominate fellows for election by the AAAS Council, the association’s policymaking body. Professor Atwood is an elected fellow of the American Academy of Microbiology. The AAAS recognized Atwood "for distinguished contributions to molecular virology, particularly for making seminal discoveries regarding the processes by which polyomaviruses infect cells and cause human disease." July 8, 2021 News from Brown Initiative to expand Ph.D. student diversity in STEM graduate programs has lasting positive effects A study that looked at 10-year outcomes of the Initiative to Maximize Student Development showed that it increased diversity within academic programs and prepared underrepresented students for successful careers in STEM. July 6, 2021 News from Brown Brown to fund four biomedical technologies with potential for patient benefit, commercial viability Now in its third funding cycle, Brown Biomedical Innovations to Impact will award four faculty projects to accelerate promising medical solutions into commercial technologies. June 16, 2021 Brown Alumni and Friends The Best Way to Fight Alzheimer’s? Together. GLF Translational Assistant Professor of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry Yu-Wen Alvin Huang works with faculty across the life sciences to advance research into the molecular and cellular mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease. June 10, 2021 News from Brown A half-decade of progress at the Hassenfeld Institute is a high five for children’s health Launched five years ago with an ambitious vision, the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute is bringing together researchers, physicians, students and community partners to transform children’s health in Rhode Island and beyond. April 28, 2021 News from Brown With $30 million in support, Brown launches Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research By bringing together biomedical research and discovery with world-class physician-scientists advancing care for patients with Alzheimer’s, the center aims to accelerate the pace of development for novel treatments and cures. March 31, 2021 News from Brown Research Achievement Awards honor early-career and accomplished Brown scholars In recognition of high-impact research and fundamental discoveries, the University will celebrate the work of six researchers with achievement awards presented at this spring’s 2021 Celebration of Research. March 12, 2021 News from Brown Virtual Brain Week will help schoolkids, home-bound attendees get out of their heads This year’s cerebral celebration will bring a packed roster of researchers from Brown’s Carney Institute for Brain Science and beyond into classrooms and homes to expand knowledge about the brain. February 10, 2021 News from Brown Neurons from patient blood cells enable researchers to test treatments for genetic brain disease A team led by Brown University researchers reprogrammed patient blood cells into stem cells to test treatments for Christianson syndrome, finding that treatment responses varied according to the mutations present. October 15, 2020 News from Brown Brown scientist to play key role in $10M study of cell structure in diseases, disorders and aging Nicola Neretti to join a new five-year, $10 million research effort funded by the National Institutes of Health to investigate how changes in cell structure can affect health and disease. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About MCB People Events Lecture Series News & Announcements Calendar & Room Reservations Academics Courses Undergraduate Graduate Program HHMI Program Community Research Centers Common Equipment Resources & Core Facilities This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search News & Announcements Open details for News & Announcements Bookmark this Page