Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry Search Menu Site Navigation Home About MCB People Events Lecture Series News & Announcements Calendar & Room Reservations Academics Courses Undergraduate Graduate Program HHMI Program Community Research Centers Common Equipment Resources & Core Facilities Search Division of Biology and Medicine Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry Lecture Series MCB offers a robust calendar of research lectures and seminars. Sub Navigation In This Section People Events Lecture Series News & Announcements Calendar & Room Reservations Lecture Series MCB offers a robust calendar of research lectures and seminars. Dr. Samuel M. Nabrit Conference for Early Career Scholars This conference showcases the research achievements of outstanding molecular life scientists from historically underrepresented groups. Featuring keynote presentations by distinguished scholars, the conference program also includes short talks, small group discussions, poster sessions, and more. Speakers are selected from applicants who are senior graduate students, postdoctoral researchers, and beginning faculty members or industry scientists. Dr. Samuel M. Nabrit Conference for Early Career Scholars Mac V. Edds Endowed Lectureship in Developmental Biology The Edds Lecture was established to commemorate the contributions of Mac V. Edds Jr. to the field of developmental biology and to Brown University. Mac Edds' research involved the study of vertebrate nerve growth. He was active in the Society for Developmental Biology and instrumental in the start of the journal Developmental Biology, serving as the first editor-in-chief for 10+ years. He also served as chair of the Biology Department at Brown University in the early 1960s and helped to establish the Medical School. About Mac Vincent Edds, Jr. Brown University Colloquium on the Biology of Human Aging The Brown University Colloquium on the Biology of Human Aging is an inter-departmental and University-wide special seminar series. Each year since 1998, it has brought to Brown and the Providence area four scientists of the highest caliber and international reputation, to speak about current research in the area of the biology of aging and its relationship to human aging. The Colloquium encompasses the fields of genetics, evolutionary biology, molecular biology, biochemistry, demographics, and gerontology, and their relevance to the study of human aging. Brown University Frank and Joan Rothman Commencement Forum The Frank and Joan Rothman Lecture was established in 1995 by President Vartan Gregorian to recognize the career-long contributions to Brown University made by Provost Frank Rothman and his wife, Joan. The purpose of the fund is to bring to Brown a scholar to present work either on basic genetic and molecular biological mechanisms (the area of Frank Rothman's research) or, in alternate years, on contributions to our understanding of how individuals can contribute to their own health (an area of particular interest to Joan Rothman). Rothman Achievements and Commencement Speakers Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About MCB People Events Lecture Series News & Announcements Calendar & Room Reservations Academics Courses Undergraduate Graduate Program HHMI Program Community Research Centers Common Equipment Resources & Core Facilities This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Lecture Series Open details for Lecture Series Bookmark this Page