Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry Search Menu Site Navigation Home About MCB People Events Lecture Series News & Announcements Calendar & Room Reservations Academics Courses Undergraduate Graduate Program HHMI Program Community Research Centers Common Equipment Resources & Core Facilities Search Division of Biology and Medicine Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry Academics The Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry offers a range of undergraduate and graduate courses that form the core of modern experimental biology. Sub Navigation In This Section Courses Undergraduate Graduate Program HHMI Program Academics The Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry offers a range of undergraduate and graduate courses that form the core of modern experimental biology. Training the Next Generation of Scholars Our faculty offer training in genetics, biochemistry, developmental biology, cellular biology, molecular biology, genomics, and proteomics. Undergraduate Study Undergraduate students at Brown are able to choose from a number of program offerings in MCB. Graduate Program The MCB Graduate Program provides excellent preparation for a career in research in biological and medical sciences. Research Researchers in MCB at Brown work at the very frontiers of scientific discovery. Brown University Brown is a leading research university and the seventh-oldest college in the United States. Courses View a sampling of introductory and advanced course offerings in the Department of Molecular Biology Cell Biology and Biochemistry at Brown. Visit Page Open details for Courses HHMI Program The HHMI Gateway STEM course seeks to broaden participation and increase retention in science, technology, engineering and math disciplines. Visit Page Open details for HHMI Program Lecture Series MCB offers a robust calendar of research lectures and seminars. Visit Page Open details for Lecture Series Academics at Brown News from Brown Initiative to expand Ph.D. student diversity in STEM graduate programs has lasting positive effects July 8, 2021 A study that looked at 10-year outcomes of the Initiative to Maximize Student Development showed that it increased diversity within academic programs and prepared underrepresented students for successful careers in STEM. Read Article Open details for Initiative to expand Ph.D. student diversity in STEM graduate programs has lasting positive effects News from Brown Virtual Brain Week will help schoolkids, home-bound attendees get out of their heads March 12, 2021 This year’s cerebral celebration will bring a packed roster of researchers from Brown’s Carney Institute for Brain Science and beyond into classrooms and homes to expand knowledge about the brain. Read Article Open details for Virtual Brain Week will help schoolkids, home-bound attendees get out of their heads News from Brown Brown eliminates GRE test requirement for 24 doctoral programs October 3, 2019 In enabling Ph.D. program leaders to drop the requirement to submit test scores, the Graduate School looks to attract talented, high-achieving students from an increasingly diverse pool of candidates. Read Article Open details for Brown eliminates GRE test requirement for 24 doctoral programs Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About MCB People Events Lecture Series News & Announcements Calendar & Room Reservations Academics Courses Undergraduate Graduate Program HHMI Program Community Research Centers Common Equipment Resources & Core Facilities This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Academics Open details for Academics Bookmark this Page