Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry Search Menu Site Navigation Home About MCB People Events Lecture Series News & Announcements Calendar & Room Reservations Academics Courses Undergraduate Graduate Program HHMI Program Community Research Centers Common Equipment Resources & Core Facilities Search Division of Biology and Medicine Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry Research Researchers in MCB at Brown work at the very frontiers of scientific discovery. Sub Navigation In This Section Centers Common Equipment Resources & Core Facilities Research Researchers in MCB at Brown work at the very frontiers of scientific discovery. Advancing Discovery Learn more about research and innovation in Molecular Biology, Cellular Biology and Biochemistry at Brown. Affilated Research Centers MCB faculty at affiliated research centers leverage deep knowledge across many fields in an effort to address society's most pressing health challenges. Visit Page Open details for Affilated Research Centers Resources & Core Facilities Core Facilities and Resources in MCB provides state-of-the-art equipment and services to life sciences researchers at Brown. Visit Page Open details for Resources &amp; Core Facilities MCB Researchers at Brown Researchers@Brown is an online portal to research and scholarship in all disciplines at Brown University. Search for a researcher in MCB by name, research topic, or field of study. Search Researchers@Brown View Research Overview MCB Research in the News More MCB News Nicolas Fawzi wins 2022 Protein Science Young Investigator Award April 7, 2022 The Protein Science Young Investigator Award, sponsored by Wiley, recognizes a scientist in the first 8 years of an independent career who has made an important contribution to the study of proteins. Read Article Open details for Nicolas Fawzi wins 2022 Protein Science Young Investigator Award News from Brown Brown researcher to lead $16M grant to explore potential cause, treatment for Alzheimer’s disease March 10, 2022 Led by principal investigator John Sedivy, a multi-university effort will build on recent discoveries about mechanisms of aging to understand causes and potential treatments for neurodegenerative diseases. Read Article Open details for Brown researcher to lead $16M grant to explore potential cause, treatment for Alzheimer’s disease News from Brown Brown to fund four biomedical technologies with potential for patient benefit, commercial viability July 6, 2021 Now in its third funding cycle, Brown Biomedical Innovations to Impact will award four faculty projects to accelerate promising medical solutions into commercial technologies. Read Article Open details for Brown to fund four biomedical technologies with potential for patient benefit, commercial viability Brown Alumni and Friends The Best Way to Fight Alzheimer’s? Together. June 16, 2021 GLF Translational Assistant Professor of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry Yu-Wen Alvin Huang works with faculty across the life sciences to advance research into the molecular and cellular mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease. Read Article Open details for The Best Way to Fight Alzheimer’s? Together. News from Brown A half-decade of progress at the Hassenfeld Institute is a high five for children’s health June 10, 2021 Launched five years ago with an ambitious vision, the Hassenfeld Child Health Innovation Institute is bringing together researchers, physicians, students and community partners to transform children’s health in Rhode Island and beyond. Read Article Open details for A half-decade of progress at the Hassenfeld Institute is a high five for children’s health News from Brown With $30 million in support, Brown launches Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research April 28, 2021 By bringing together biomedical research and discovery with world-class physician-scientists advancing care for patients with Alzheimer’s, the center aims to accelerate the pace of development for novel treatments and cures. Read Article Open details for With $30 million in support, Brown launches Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About MCB People Events Lecture Series News & Announcements Calendar & Room Reservations Academics Courses Undergraduate Graduate Program HHMI Program Community Research Centers Common Equipment Resources & Core Facilities This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Research Open details for Research Bookmark this Page