Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry Search Menu Site Navigation Home About MCB People Events Lecture Series News & Announcements Calendar & Room Reservations Academics Courses Undergraduate Graduate Program HHMI Program Community Research Centers Common Equipment Resources & Core Facilities Search Division of Biology and Medicine Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry Dr. Samuel M. Nabrit Conference for Early Career Scholars An inclusive event for molecular life scientists. Breadcrumb Home Lecture Series Dr. Samuel M. Nabrit Conference for Early Career Scholars An inclusive event for molecular life scientists. Fourth Annual Dr. Samuel M. Nabrit Conference for Early Career Scholars June 16-17, 2022 Brown University Providence, RI This conference will showcase the research achievements of outstanding molecular life scientists from historically underrepresented groups. Registration is free, and the conference will convene in person, with a limited number of hybrid segments streamed via Zoom. The 2022 Samuel M. Nabrit Conference for Early Career Scholars (June 16-17) and the New England Regional Society for Advancement of Chicanos/Hispanics and Native Americans in Science (SACNAS) Meeting (June 17-18) will be taking place in conjunction at Brown University and will meet in a joint session on the afternoon of June 17. The conference program will open with a keynote address by Dr. Alexis Stranahan, PhD (Augusta University), and the June 17 joint session will feature a keynote address by Dr. Kristy Red-Horse, PhD (Stanford University). The program also features short talks by invited early career scholars, poster sessions and panel events focusing on identity and professional development. Last call for oral presentations slots! The application deadline is Wednesday, May 11! APPLY/REGISTER NOW! This will be an inclusive event, drawing attendees from the Brown BioMed community (including undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, staff and campus organizations) as well as registered participants from across the US. The conference has been named in honor of Dr. Samuel Milton Nabrit, Brown's first African-American PhD recipient and a marine biologist with a distinguished international career. Schedule Summary for the 2022 Nabrit Conference Thursday June 16 2 - 4:30 PM Opening session Keynote address by Dr. Alexis Stranahan, PhD Invited short talks 4:45 - 6 PM Poster Session A and reception Friday June 17 9 - 11:45 AM Second session Invited short talks Panel discussion on institutional culture change 11:45 AM - 2:15 PM Lunch and Poster Session B 2:15 - 4:15 PM Third session Invited short talks Panel discussion on trainee experiences 4:30 - 7 PM Joint Session with New England Regional SACNAS Meeting Welcome Keynote address by Dr. Kristy Red-Horse, PhD Social/Networking session (New England Regional SACNAS Meeting continues Saturday June 18!) For questions about the 2022 Samuel M. Nabrit Conference for Early Career Scholars, please contact smnc@brown.edu. For information about the 2022 New England Regional SACNAS Meeting, please visit the event website. About Dr. Samuel M. Nabrit Samuel Nabrit (1999), by Robert Freeman; Brown University Portrait Collection, BP.276 An accomplished marine biologist with a distinguished international career, Samuel Milton Nabrit was Brown University's first African-American Ph.D. recipient and first African-American trustee. After graduating from Morehouse College in 1925, he studied regeneration in fish tail fins in the doctoral program in biology at Brown and at the Marine Biological Laboratory. Dr. Nabrit began his teaching career at Morehouse College, where he was a professor of zoology and then chair of the biology department from 1932 to 1947. He served as president of the National Institute of Science in 1945. In 1947 he became a member of the Marine Biological Laboratory Corporation (he was only the second African-American scientist to do so) and moved to Atlanta University, where he served as dean of the graduate school of arts and sciences. Dr. Nabrit's scientific papers remained influential for many years and are still cited today in journals including Regeneration, Mechanisms of Development, and Developmental Cell. Dr. Nabrit became the second president of Texas Southern University in 1955, serving in that role until 1966, publishing a number of important papers on the status and future of graduate and professional education for African Americans. Under U.S. Presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy and Johnson, Dr. Nabrit served in a number of national roles, including membership on the National Science board and on the Atomic Energy Commission, as well as a special ambassadorship. He was a founding member of the Institute of Medicine (now the National Academy of Medicine). In 1967 he became the executive director of the Southern Fellowship Fund, which supported African-American students pursuing doctoral degrees, a post he held until his retirement in 1981. Dr. Nabrit's contributions and achievements have been recognized and remembered in several ways at Brown University. He was awarded an honorary Sc.D. degree in 1962, and received the William Rogers award, which recognizes Brown alumni for outstanding humanitarian contributions, in 1987. In 1999 a portrait of Dr. Nabrit was unveiled and added to the collection of portraits of important university leaders in Sayles Hall. Since 1985, Nabrit Fellowships have supported graduate students and, more recently, undergraduate researchers from historically underrepresented groups, and The Samuel M. Nabrit Black Graduate Student Association adopted his name in 2005. Previous Conferences The inaugural Dr. Samuel M. Nabrit Conference for Early Career Scholars took place on June 6-7, 2019 at Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island. The second and third annual conferences were held virtually. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About MCB People Events Lecture Series News & Announcements Calendar & Room Reservations Academics Courses Undergraduate Graduate Program HHMI Program Community Research Centers Common Equipment Resources & Core Facilities This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Dr. Samuel M. Nabrit Conference for Early Career Scholars Open details for Dr. Samuel M. Nabrit Conference for Early Career Scholars Bookmark this Page