Skip to Main Content Brown University Division of Biology and Medicine Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry Search Menu Site Navigation Home About MCB People Events Lecture Series News & Announcements Calendar & Room Reservations Academics Courses Undergraduate Graduate Program HHMI Program Community Research Centers Common Equipment Resources & Core Facilities Search Division of Biology and Medicine Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry Community The Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry is a partner in Brown's committment to building a more inclusive community of scholars. Community The Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry is a partner in Brown's committment to building a more inclusive community of scholars. Campus Resources Brown's fundamental committment to diversity, equity, and inclusion lies at the core of its educational mission. Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity (OIED) Title IX and Gender Equity Office Office of Women in Medicine and Science Student Accessibility Services Campus Initiatives and Programs Learn more about the organizations, programs and initiatives that foster equity and inclusion at Brown. Dr. Samuel M. Nabrit Conference for Early Career Scholars The Dr. Samuel M. Nabrit Conference for Early Career Scholars fosters career advancement for graduate students, postdoctoral researchers, and junior faculty from historically underrepresented groups. Biomed Initiative to Maximize Student Development (IMSD) The IMSD Program provides research training support for students in underrepresented groups to significantly increase the participation of these groups within STEM fields. The Leadership Alliance Brown is a member of the Leadership Alliance, a consortium of colleges and universities committed to preparing students from underrepresented groups for leadership in academia, business, and the public sector. Diversity @ Brown News from Brown Initiative to expand Ph.D. student diversity in STEM graduate programs has lasting positive effects July 8, 2021 A study that looked at 10-year outcomes of the Initiative to Maximize Student Development showed that it increased diversity within academic programs and prepared underrepresented students for successful careers in STEM. Read Article Open details for Initiative to expand Ph.D. student diversity in STEM graduate programs has lasting positive effects News from Brown Brown eliminates GRE test requirement for 24 doctoral programs October 3, 2019 In enabling Ph.D. program leaders to drop the requirement to submit test scores, the Graduate School looks to attract talented, high-achieving students from an increasingly diverse pool of candidates. Read Article Open details for Brown eliminates GRE test requirement for 24 doctoral programs News from Brown Early-career scientists explore research achievements by underrepresented scholars June 20, 2019 At the first Dr. Samuel M. Nabrit Conference, molecular life scientists from historically underrepresented groups gathered at Brown to learn about cutting-edge research; Brown professors and junior researchers discussed how their identities as members of underrepresented groups have affected their career paths. Read Article Open details for Early-career scientists explore research achievements by underrepresented scholars Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About MCB People Events Lecture Series News & Announcements Calendar & Room Reservations Academics Courses Undergraduate Graduate Program HHMI Program Community Research Centers Common Equipment Resources & Core Facilities This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Community Open details for Community Bookmark this Page