Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search About U-MCM Why Construction Management at U-SoA Program Mission Vision and Core Values Donate to Us The School of Architecture The U Miami and South Florida News & Events U-MCM Events U-SoA Events People Department Directory Meet Our Advisory Board Academics Master of Construction Management Executive Master of Construction Management Scholarships Financial Aid Resources International Students Veterans Affairs Career Fair Job Listings Industry Partnerships Facilities Contact Us About U-MCM News & Events People Academics Resources Contact Us Search About U-MCM Why Construction Management at U-SoA Program Mission Vision and Core Values Donate to Us The School of Architecture The U Miami and South Florida News & Events U-MCM Events U-SoA Events People Department Directory Meet Our Advisory Board Academics Master of Construction Management Executive Master of Construction Management Scholarships Financial Aid Resources International Students Veterans Affairs Career Fair Job Listings Industry Partnerships Facilities Contact Us More Information Optional Practical Training (OPT) STEM Extension More Information Optional Practical Training (OPT) STEM Extension Start Building Your Future Interested in applying to MCM? Start Building Your Future Interested in applying to MCM? Learn Outside the Classroom Get hands-on experience in local miami areas Learn Outside the Classroom Get hands-on experience in local miami areas News and Events Stay updated on current news and events News and Events Stay updated on current news and events Submit an Inquiry Complete an information request form Submit an Inquiry Complete an information request form Request Info Programs Application Calendars & Events Building the Future One Leader at a Time “...the best part of this program is the practicality and real world application of what we’re learning and doing. I’m not learning theory, I’m learning reality”. Sebastian Militello 2020 Quick Stats Construction Managers 2020 Quick Stats Construction Managers Did You Know? 93K Median Salary Per Year -Reported by U.S. News & World Report 2020 9.8% Job Growth 10-year projection -Reported by U.S. News & World Report 2020 46,200 Number of Jobs in the U.S. -Reported by U.S. News & World Report 2020 #1 Job Rank in Construction -Reported by U.S. News & World Report 2020 #57 100 Best Jobs Overall -Reported by U.S. News & World Report 2020 1.8% Unemployment for Construction Managers -Reported by U.S. News & World Report 2020 Apply Now Designing for the Internet of things The Master of Construction Management program along with the School of Architecture at The U are fast-fowarding into the next era of design in efforts to integrate modern-day architecture with the digital world. Embedded technology empowers networked environments to better address the environmental and social challenges we face today. Dean Rodolphe el-Khoury, School of Architecture Visit U-SOA Take a tour of the School of Architecture at the U. Admissions Find out exactly what you need to apply for your program. Request Info Need more info? Request info from us by submitting an inquiry form. Advisory Board Meet our esteemed Advisory Board members. Bob Miller Bob Miller who currently serves as Co-Chairman of the Master of Construction Management program at the University of Miami is a newly elected member to the National Board of Directors of Rebuilding Together - a leading national nonprofit organization with a mission to repair homes of people in need and revitalize our local communities. CSRwire Press Release MCM ON: University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami School of Architecture Master of Construction Management Program Theo Dickinson Drive Building 35 Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-5268 305-284-5268 UMCM@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices