Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU People MCZ Specimen Database Search Research Concord Field Station Entomology Herpetology Ichthyology Invertebrate Paleontology Invertebrate Zoology Malacology Mammalogy Ornithology Population Genetics Vertebrate Paleontology Special Collections Resources Database Ernst Mayr Library Genetic Resources Shared-Use Facilities Policies & Procedures Funding Biodiversity Postdoctoral Fellowship Ernst Mayr Travel Grants Putnam Expedition Grants Grants-In-Aid of Undergraduate Research Miyata Grants Wetmore Colles Grant Public Exhibits Publications About Instructions for Authors Exchanges & Reprints Copyright Permission Search Publications About Affiliates & Facilities Collections Operations Annual Reports Lunchtime Seminars News Contact HOME / About The Museum of Comparative Zoology (MCZ) at Harvard University is a center for research and education focused on the comparative relationships of animal life. MCZ collections are comprised of approximately 21-million extant and fossil invertebrate and vertebrate specimens, which continue to be a focus of research and teaching for MCZ, Harvard and outside students and researchers. News Lunchtime Seminars Contact Affiliates & Facilities Collections Operations Annual Reports The MCZ is comprised of 10 departments, 9 of which contain research collections (Entomology, Herpetology, Ichthyology, Invertebrate Paleontology, Invertebrate Zoology, Malacology, Mammalogy, Ornithology and Vertebrate Paleontology), in addition to the Ernst Mayr Library and the Concord Field Station. The MCZ is led by current Faculty Director Professor Gonzalo Giribet, with oversight from the MCZ Faculty, the museum's governing body. Eleven faculty-curators and 4 emeriti provide additional vision and leadership to the museum's collections. MCZ faculty-curators are Harvard faculty members within the Department of Organismic and Evolutionary Biology (OEB), leading active research areas that include Biodiversity and Systematics, Biology of Marine Systems, Biomechanics and Physiology, Ecology, Evolutionary Developmental Biology, Mathematical and Computational Biology, Neuroethnology and Behavioral Ecology, Paleobiology, and Population and Evolutionary Genetics. The MCZ also has a productive associates roster. These affiliated researchers are hosted by individual departments and are reviewed and approved by the MCZ Faculty Board. MCZ Faculty Governing Board The MCZ's charter, signed in 1859, mandates that the Museum's activities will be overseen by a governing board, the Faculty of the Museum of Comparative Zoology. Mr. George Putnam III Mr. Jeff Tarr Dr. Barbara Jil Wu President Lawrence S. Bacow Questions? Contact for General Inquiries Privacy | User Agreement Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Organismic and Evolutionary Biology https://www.instagram.com/mczharvard/ https://twitter.com/MCZHarvard https://www.facebook.com/MCZHarvard/ d327872e00f44e2d502b313399641a26 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement