Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU People MCZ Specimen Database Search Research Concord Field Station Entomology Herpetology Ichthyology Invertebrate Paleontology Invertebrate Zoology Malacology Mammalogy Ornithology Population Genetics Vertebrate Paleontology Special Collections Resources Database Ernst Mayr Library Genetic Resources Shared-Use Facilities Policies & Procedures Funding Biodiversity Postdoctoral Fellowship Ernst Mayr Travel Grants Putnam Expedition Grants Grants-In-Aid of Undergraduate Research Miyata Grants Wetmore Colles Grant Public Exhibits Publications About Instructions for Authors Exchanges & Reprints Copyright Permission Search Publications About Affiliates & Facilities Collections Operations Annual Reports Lunchtime Seminars News Contact HOME / RESOURCES / Shared-Use Facilities The MCZ has several available facilities that support museum research and collection use including the Digital Imaging Facility (DIF) in the MCZ Labs building and a Micro-CT Scanning Facility in the Harvard University Laboratory for Integrated Science and Engineering (LISE). Digital Imaging Facility As part of the University's larger efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the MCZ Digital Imaging Facility is operating with instrument reservation and use restrictions in addition to (and in some cases superseding) those listed below. For more information, please contact MCZ Collections Operations. The DIF consists of a micro-CT system, 3D analysis workstation, digital x-ray system, Keyence digital microscope system, and digital photography station with copystand and camera. The digital x-ray is capable of quickly producing images of internal structures of specimens, with good resolution and minimal background noise. The Keyence digital microscope system combines focal plane reconstruction with a suite of powerful image analysis functions. The digital photography station is useful for a broad range of applications with larger specimens. The micro-CT system is a powerful tool for three-dimensional imaging, analysis and characterization of biological specimens, and the 3D analysis workstation assists with the related computing. The facility is open to MCZ researchers and staff upon the completion of training (contact MCZ Collections Operations). For the Keyence digital microscope and the photo station, outside users may be sponsored and supervised by an MCZ lab or department, and must be accompanied by trained MCZ personnel to use the equipment. MCZ users have first priority on use of the equipment. For IT security reasons, users must have FAS Research Computing username/password credentials in order to be able to log on to either the micro-CT or 3D analysis computers. To request an account with Research Computing, visit the Research Computing website. Please have these credentials in place before training. Users of the system are responsible for reading the relevant hardware and software manuals. These are collected together and available in a downloadable ZIP file upon training. Scheduling for both the micro-CT system and the 3D analysis workstation is handled through an online scheduling tool, which is accessed with a user’s Research Computing credentials; details are given during training. Please read the usage policies for MCZ and non-MCZ users. Micro-CT Scan Facility at LISE The micro-CT scanner is managed by the Harvard University Center for Nanoscale Systems (CNS) located at the Laboratory for Integrated Science and Engineering (LISE). Use of the scanner facility requires registering and training with CNS. For MCZ users that plan to examine specimens housed in ethanol, the LISE Building Safety Officer offers the following recommendations: Transport the specimens to and from the LISE building in a leak proof secondary container. Store any and all specimen containers in a flammable storage cabinet in the South Material Synthesis area (near the CT x-ray tool). Do not exceed 15 gallons of ethanol. Before placing the specimen in the x-ray cabinet make sure all solution is removed from specimen accordingly: Using safety glasses and chemical resistant gloves remove the specimen from the container and hold it over the container to let excess liquid drip back into the container; Using a dry wipe remove any liquid from the specimen; Place ethanol contaminated wipes in a flip top receptacle in the area (is not considered hazardous waste unless rag is soaked in ethanol); Place the specimen in a leak proof secondary container before putting in the x-ray cabinet, and keep the specimen in the secondary container during x-ray process. _dsc0587.jpg Resources Database Ernst Mayr Library Genetic Resources Shared-Use Facilities Policies & Procedures Privacy | User Agreement Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Organismic and Evolutionary Biology https://www.instagram.com/mczharvard/ https://twitter.com/MCZHarvard https://www.facebook.com/MCZHarvard/ d327872e00f44e2d502b313399641a26 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement