Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU People MCZ Specimen Database Search Research Concord Field Station Entomology Herpetology Ichthyology Invertebrate Paleontology Invertebrate Zoology Malacology Mammalogy Ornithology Population Genetics Vertebrate Paleontology Special Collections Resources Database Ernst Mayr Library Genetic Resources Shared-Use Facilities Policies & Procedures Funding Biodiversity Postdoctoral Fellowship Ernst Mayr Travel Grants Putnam Expedition Grants Grants-In-Aid of Undergraduate Research Miyata Grants Wetmore Colles Grant Public Exhibits Publications About Instructions for Authors Exchanges & Reprints Copyright Permission Search Publications About Affiliates & Facilities Collections Operations Annual Reports Lunchtime Seminars News Contact HOME / User Agreement This User Agreement governs the use of all text, images, data, multimedia, and other content ("Site Content") included in the Museum of Comparative Zoology website (the "Site"), except for materials published by the Museum of Comparative Zoology in journals and other scholarly publications. Please visit MCZ Publications for the terms of use and permission information for materials published in our journals or other publications. By accessing the Site (which includes all pages displayable from an MCZ web server, including but not limited to all servers within the "mcz.harvard.edu" domain and fourth-level domains such as "mczbase.mcz.harvard.edu"), you agree to be bound by the following terms. You are responsible for reviewing these terms regularly to be aware of any modifications, and your continued use of the Site indicates your acceptance of the modifications. 1. Use of Site Content, Generally Site Content may be used solely for noncommercial educational or research purposes. Any reproduction distribution, display, or other use of Site Content in any manner for commercial purposes, personal gain, or illegal purposes is strictly prohibited. Use of Site Content is free, but you may not remove or alter any copyright or other proprietary notice affixed to Site Content, and you must include proper attribution using a citation that includes "Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University. http://mcz.harvard.edu." 2. Ownership and Use of MCZbase Content Harvard owns copyright and other proprietary rights to most Site Content, including content in the MCZ museum-wide database ("MCZbase"), but other institutions and individuals have contributed content to MCZbase, as well, under one or more Creative Common Licenses. If you wish to reproduce, distribute, display, or otherwise use any content from MCZbase ("Content"), you should refer first to the applicable metadata for the Content you have selected to determine how it may be used. If the metadata indicates ownership by Harvard, you may request permission to use the Content by completing and submitting a Permission Request to Use MCZ Copyrighted Material. If the quantity or type of use you request exceeds certain parameters, Harvard may require you to sign an MCZ Content Delivery Agreement, which will be provided to you as needed. If the metadata for the Content indicates ownership by another institution or individual, you should comply with the terms of the Creative Commons license that is specified for that Content. If the metadata for the Content does not indicate any ownership, you should assume that it is owned by Harvard and use the Permission Request to Use MCZ Copyrighted Material if you wish to request permission to use the Content. 3. Disclaimer of Warranties, Limitation of Liability, and Indemnification Harvard disclaims, to the fullest extent permitted by law, all warranties of any kind to Site Content or to the Site, including any warranties that use of the Site will be uninterrupted or error-free, or that the Site will be free from viruses or other harmful components. Under no circumstances will Harvard or its affiliates, employees, faculty members, students, agents, and members of its governing boards (“Harvard Parties”) be liable to you under any legal theory for damages of any kind arising out of your access to the Site or Site Content. You agree to indemnify and hold harmless Harvard Parties from and against all claims, losses, liabilities, damages, costs, and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees, arising from your use of the Site, MCZbase Content, and/or other Site Content. This User Agreement will be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts, excluding conflict of laws rules. User Agreement Version Date: 20 April 2017 Privacy | User Agreement Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Organismic and Evolutionary Biology https://www.instagram.com/mczharvard/ https://twitter.com/MCZHarvard https://www.facebook.com/MCZHarvard/ d327872e00f44e2d502b313399641a26 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement