Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU People MCZ Specimen Database Search Research Concord Field Station Entomology Herpetology Ichthyology Invertebrate Paleontology Invertebrate Zoology Malacology Mammalogy Ornithology Population Genetics Vertebrate Paleontology Special Collections Resources Database Ernst Mayr Library Genetic Resources Shared-Use Facilities Policies & Procedures Funding Biodiversity Postdoctoral Fellowship Ernst Mayr Travel Grants Putnam Expedition Grants Grants-In-Aid of Undergraduate Research Miyata Grants Wetmore Colles Grant Public Exhibits Publications About Instructions for Authors Exchanges & Reprints Copyright Permission Search Publications About Affiliates & Facilities Collections Operations Annual Reports Lunchtime Seminars News Contact HOME / RESOURCES / Genetic Resources Since the ratification of The Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), new rules have steadily increased in many countries governing access, collection and/or exportation of genetic resources. With this increased complexity, existing genetic collections are under more pressure as they work to accommodate increasing demands while complying with more regulations. The Cryogenic Collection at the MCZ was created to house the genetic resource holdings of the MCZ departmental collections and assist researchers in addressing the growing intricacies and concerns related to the conservation of genetic samples. These resources have become an integral part of natural history museum collections as they are increasingly used in genetic and genomic studies. Samples include frozen tissues, chemically preserved tissues, and/or associated extracts; the consumptive nature of their use differentiates them from typical museum specimens. This collection centralizes maintenance, standardizes procedures, promotes research accessibility and prioritizes long-term conservation of these resources for MCZ researchers and the scientific community. This facility includes state-of-the art liquid nitrogen storage equipment for genetic samples, which maintains samples in extremely low temperatures and provides temperature stability regardless of power interruptions. Metadata associated with genetic samples, including barcode data that tracks the exact location of each sample, are stored and accessed using the museum’s centralized database, MCZbase. The Cryogenic Collection also facilitates loans of genetic samples that have been approved by the MCZ departmental collections. The Cryogenic facility processes and ships aliquots to approved researchers, maximizing the use of these valuable resources. See the appropriate MCZ collection for specific information on loan policies. For more information, please contact Breda M. Zimkus, Cryogenics Collection Manager for Genetic Resources. General inquires can be emailed. _dsc0587.jpg Resources Database Ernst Mayr Library Genetic Resources Shared-Use Facilities Policies & Procedures Privacy | User Agreement Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Organismic and Evolutionary Biology https://www.instagram.com/mczharvard/ https://twitter.com/MCZHarvard https://www.facebook.com/MCZHarvard/ d327872e00f44e2d502b313399641a26 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement