Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU People MCZ Specimen Database Search Research Concord Field Station Entomology Herpetology Ichthyology Invertebrate Paleontology Invertebrate Zoology Malacology Mammalogy Ornithology Population Genetics Vertebrate Paleontology Special Collections Resources Database Ernst Mayr Library Genetic Resources Shared-Use Facilities Policies & Procedures Funding Biodiversity Postdoctoral Fellowship Ernst Mayr Travel Grants Putnam Expedition Grants Grants-In-Aid of Undergraduate Research Miyata Grants Wetmore Colles Grant Public Exhibits Publications About Instructions for Authors Exchanges & Reprints Copyright Permission Search Publications About Affiliates & Facilities Collections Operations Annual Reports Lunchtime Seminars News Contact HOME / FUNDING / Putnam Expedition Grants The Museum of Comparative Zoology (MCZ) at Harvard University periodically awards travel grants that support collection of specimens and data relating to the study of comparative zoology, which are known as Putnam Expedition Grants. Preference is given to requests in two categories: Collecting living specimens in regions where habitats are threatened Collecting fossil specimens in regions most likely to hold important clues for unraveling evolutionary strategies. Support is provided solely to defray costs of travel and related subsistence expenses incurred in pursuit of these objectives. All specimens collected during a Putnam Expedition should be deposited in the permanent collections of the MCZ. Researchers are expected to deposit tissues for accessioning together with the corresponding whole (voucher) specimens. Curatorial staff will transfer these samples to the MCZ Cryogenic Collection for long-term storage in liquid nitrogen. Eligibility Eligibility for Putnam Expedition Grants is restricted to current faculty, postdocs (including term-limited research associates) and students in the MCZ. Applicants may apply as individuals or as leaders of expedition teams. Research by Harvard undergraduates is eligible for support, but such work should be conducted under the direct supervision of an MCZ faculty member, who submits the proposal. Application Applicants must complete a standard application form. Applications include a project description explicitly stating the objective, expected activities and results, anticipated travel itinerary, and should address how permits and legal compliance issues will be met. A budget, a curriculum vitae and a letter of support (graduate student and postdoctoral applicants) are also required. Letters of support may be submitted separately. Applications are submitted by email. Graduate student applicants Indicate whether you have completed your doctoral qualifying exam and if you already have applied, or plan to apply, for extramural support for research-related travel. Also indicate if you expect to apply for additional Putnam support beyond the current proposal (and, if so, the approximate amount). Please ask your dissertation advisor to prepare a letter that evaluates 1) the merits of your travel request vis-à-vis your dissertation research, and 2) the likelihood of additional Putnam grant applications in support of this research beyond the current proposal. This letter should be submitted separately from the main application by the deadline below. Higher priority for funding may be given to applicants who have not previously received a Putnam grant and who have passed their qualifying exam. Postdoctoral applicants Please ask your advisor to prepare a letter that evaluates 1) the merits of your travel request vis-à-vis your research, and 2) the likelihood of additional Putnam grant applications in support of this research beyond the current proposal. This letter should be submitted separately from the main application by the deadline below. Higher priority for funding may be given to applicants who have not previously received a Putnam grant. Deadlines Proposals are reviewed twice a year. Application deadlines are October 1, 2021 (fall semester) and March 11, 2022 (spring semester). Each grantee must provide a final report that summarizes scientific accomplishments derived from the award within six months of travel completion. Reports for prior awards must be received before new applications from the same individual will be considered. Questions Please email inquiries regarding the Putnam Expedition Grant img_4171.jpg Funding Biodiversity Postdoctoral Fellowship Ernst Mayr Travel Grants Putnam Expedition Grants Grants-In-Aid of Undergraduate Research Miyata Grants Wetmore Colles Grant Privacy | User Agreement Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Organismic and Evolutionary Biology https://www.instagram.com/mczharvard/ https://twitter.com/MCZHarvard https://www.facebook.com/MCZHarvard/ d327872e00f44e2d502b313399641a26 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement