Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU People MCZ Specimen Database Search Research Concord Field Station Entomology Herpetology Ichthyology Invertebrate Paleontology Invertebrate Zoology Malacology Mammalogy Ornithology Population Genetics Vertebrate Paleontology Special Collections Resources Database Ernst Mayr Library Genetic Resources Shared-Use Facilities Policies & Procedures Funding Biodiversity Postdoctoral Fellowship Ernst Mayr Travel Grants Putnam Expedition Grants Grants-In-Aid of Undergraduate Research Miyata Grants Wetmore Colles Grant Public Exhibits Publications About Instructions for Authors Exchanges & Reprints Copyright Permission Search Publications About Affiliates & Facilities Collections Operations Annual Reports Lunchtime Seminars News Contact HOME / FUNDING / Grants-In-Aid of Undergraduate Research The Museum of Comparative Zoology (MCZ), the Harvard University Herbaria (HUH), and the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University (AA) are pleased to award grants in support of faculty (tenure track)-supervised research by Harvard College undergraduates. Projects in any subject area are eligible for support, although priority may be given to projects that utilize MCZ, HUH, or AA research collections, laboratories and other facilities, and to related fieldwork. Funds from the HUH are primarily available to support projects in the field of plant biology; funds from the AA primarily target research that utilizes its living collections. Projects that facilitate senior honors theses or associated preliminary studies are particularly encouraged. Awards range from $500 to $4,000 and may provide support for the academic year (fall and spring semesters) or summer. Awards support laboratory and field equipment and supplies, airfare and/or local travel to a research site, or a stipend during the semester. Applicants are strongly encouraged to simultaneously apply for research support from the Harvard College Research Program (HCRP). Eligibility Harvard College undergraduates conducting research sponsored by Harvard tenure-track faculty Application Applications must be submitted electronically through CARAT (Centralized Application for Research and Travel). You can begin your work, save it, and return to it at a later time. Applications are due by 5 pm on the due date. Late and/or incomplete applications will not be accepted. To apply, please submit the following via CARAT: Research proposal (approx. 750 words) with citations. Proposals should describe the project's goals, the specific plan and timeline to accomplish those goals, and identify a Harvard faculty member who has agreed to supervise the project and explain his/her role in the project Budget Travel information (as relevant) 1-page Resume Transcript (unofficial accepted) Reference letter. Reference letters must be written by the faculty member supervising your project (i.e. your "faculty sponsor"). Letters of recommendation from faculty sponsors may be submitted through CARAT OR emailed. All documents must be uploaded to CARAT as PDFs. When ready to submit your application, upload the documents to your CARAT registration (covering basic demographic information, project information and budget forms) to complete your application. Deadlines Proposals are reviewed three times a year. Fall: September 14, 2021 Spring: February 1, 2022 Summer: March 22, 2022 Please take care to upload your application to the relevant GUR cycle in CARAT. Applications uploaded to other cycles will not be considered. Decisions typically announced within one month of each deadline. Questions Please email inquiries regarding the GUR img_4171.jpg Funding Biodiversity Postdoctoral Fellowship Ernst Mayr Travel Grants Putnam Expedition Grants Grants-In-Aid of Undergraduate Research Miyata Grants Wetmore Colles Grant Privacy | User Agreement Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Organismic and Evolutionary Biology https://www.instagram.com/mczharvard/ https://twitter.com/MCZHarvard https://www.facebook.com/MCZHarvard/ d327872e00f44e2d502b313399641a26 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement