Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU People MCZ Specimen Database Search Research Concord Field Station Entomology Herpetology Ichthyology Invertebrate Paleontology Invertebrate Zoology Malacology Mammalogy Ornithology Population Genetics Vertebrate Paleontology Special Collections Resources Database Ernst Mayr Library Genetic Resources Shared-Use Facilities Policies & Procedures Funding Biodiversity Postdoctoral Fellowship Ernst Mayr Travel Grants Putnam Expedition Grants Grants-In-Aid of Undergraduate Research Miyata Grants Wetmore Colles Grant Public Exhibits Publications About Instructions for Authors Exchanges & Reprints Copyright Permission Search Publications About Affiliates & Facilities Collections Operations Annual Reports Lunchtime Seminars News Contact HOME / News Some trilobites mated like extant horseshoe crabs May 6, 2022 Through careful study of exceptional specimens, graduate student Sarah Losso and faculty-curator Javier Ortega-Hernández show that some trilobites mated very much like extant horseshoe crabs thanks to their highly modified clasper-like limbs. ... Read more about Some trilobites mated like extant horseshoe crabs Scott Edwards elected as member of the Royal Physiographic Society of Lund April 22, 2022 Congratulations to MCZ Faculty-Curator of Ornithology, Scott V. Edwards, elected as a member of the Royal Physiographic Society of Lund, Sweden. The award is in honor of Professor Edwards scientific achievements and collaboration with University of Lund researchers. Biohybrid fish made from human cardiac cells swims like the heart beats February 14, 2022 Harvard University researchers, including MCZ Faculty-Curator of Ichthyology George Lauder and graduate student David Matthews, in collaboration with colleagues from Emory University, have developed the first fully autonomous biohybrid fish from human stem-cell derived cardiac muscle cells. An autonomously swimming biohybrid fish designed with human cardiac biophysics is published in Science and featured by the... Read more about Biohybrid fish made from human cardiac cells swims like the heart beats Second ever opabiniid described, from the Cambrian explosion February 9, 2022 Ortega-Hernández Lab members, and colleague, describe the first ever opabiniid, a crown jewel of the Cambrian explosion from the Wheeler Formation, Utah. New opabiniid diversifies the weirdest wonders of the euarthropod stem group, published in Proceedings of the Royal Society B and... Read more about Second ever opabiniid described, from the Cambrian explosion New research refutes the monophyly of Arachnida February 8, 2022 New research from the Giribet Lab refutes the monophyly of Arachnida, suggesting that horseshoe crabs colonized the sea from a land ancestor. Comprehensive species sampling and sophisticated algorithmic approaches refute the monophyly of Arachnida, published in Molecular Biology and Evolution. Read more about New research refutes the monophyly of Arachnida In Memoriam: Edward O. Wilson 1929-2021 December 27, 2021 Edward O. Wilson, Ed as we knew him, a leading light of our community, died yesterday afternoon. He was an important advocate of the MCZ, a kind presence, and inspiration to us all. He will be greatly missed. E.O. Wilson Foundation ... Read more about In Memoriam: Edward O. Wilson 1929-2021 A new species, and genus, of tanager is described December 16, 2021 A new tanager species, that was documented in part from an MCZ Putnam Expedition Grant in 2012, has been described and published in the journal Ornithology. The South American songbird is so distinctive that it warrants its own genus, Heliothraupis. The work is featured in Audubon. Read more about A new species, and genus, of tanager is described Water bear fossil found in 16-million-year-old amber November 5, 2021 MCZ Faculty-Curator Javier Ortega-Hernández and graduate student Marc Mapalo, along with colleagues, describe Paradoryphoribius chronocaribbeus, a new fossil tardigrade from Miocene Dominican amber. Read about the discovery in the Harvard Gazette and... Read more about Water bear fossil found in 16-million-year-old amber A new study reveals how some mammals evolved their tusks October 29, 2021 Megan Whitney, postdoc in the Stephanie Pierce Lab, is the lead author on a paper that reveals how some mammals evolved their tusks. First, Megan and her colleagues had to define what exactly is a... Read more about A new study reveals how some mammals evolved their tusks Rare crab in amber offers evolution clues October 27, 2021 Javier Luque, postdoc in the Javier Ortega-Hernández Lab and MCZ Invertebrate Paleontology, speaks with the... Read more about Rare crab in amber offers evolution clues 1 of 34 ›› Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Organismic and Evolutionary Biology https://www.instagram.com/mczharvard/ https://twitter.com/MCZHarvard https://www.facebook.com/MCZHarvard/ d327872e00f44e2d502b313399641a26 Privacy | User Agreement Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement