Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU People MCZ Specimen Database Search Research Concord Field Station Entomology Herpetology Ichthyology Invertebrate Paleontology Invertebrate Zoology Malacology Mammalogy Ornithology Population Genetics Vertebrate Paleontology Special Collections Resources Database Ernst Mayr Library Genetic Resources Shared-Use Facilities Policies & Procedures Funding Biodiversity Postdoctoral Fellowship Ernst Mayr Travel Grants Putnam Expedition Grants Grants-In-Aid of Undergraduate Research Miyata Grants Wetmore Colles Grant Public Exhibits Publications About Instructions for Authors Exchanges & Reprints Copyright Permission Search Publications About Affiliates & Facilities Collections Operations Annual Reports Lunchtime Seminars News Contact HOME / FUNDING / Ernst Mayr Travel Grants The MCZ awards travel grants for research in animal systematics, known as the Ernst Mayr Grants. The principal objective of these grants is to stimulate taxonomic work on neglected taxa. These include taxa with numerous poorly described species, genera and families known to have many undescribed species in institutional collections, taxa for which it is unknown what proportion of the nominal species are synonyms and difficult genera without keys. It is not the aim of these grants to support largely phylogenetic studies of taxa in which the species are reasonably well known, or to support biogeographic studies. The study of type specimens and their correct identification is the greatest need in poorly known taxa. This typically requires visits to other museums, which is what the Ernst Mayr Grants program tries to facilitate. Preference is given to studies that use the MCZ's collections, although applications to work at other museums will be considered. There is enough demand for this support for taxonomic work to make it impossible to also support phylogenetic and other evolutionary studies from the Ernst Mayr Grants. Typical expenses that may be paid from these grants include travel, lodging, and meals for up to a few weeks while conducting research at the museum(s), reasonable services purchased from the host institution and research supplies. Awards average about $1,000 each and may not exceed $2,000. Recipients will receive a check from the Bank of America, sent by FedEx. Alternatively, checks can be picked up at the Museum of Comparative Zoology. Brazilian researchers please note: The MCZ has established Material Transfer Agreements with multiple institutions in Brazil which allows us to exchange loans. This may impact your proposal by making travel to the MCZ unnecessary. To find out if your institution is eligible to receive specimen loans from the MCZ, please contact Melissa Aja. Eligibility This grant is open to all. Application Applications must be submitted electronically through CARAT (Centralized Application for Research and Travel). You can begin your work, save it, and return to it at a later time. Applications (including all supporting documents) are due by 5 pm EST on the due date. To apply, please submit the following via CARAT: a short project description and explicit statement of research goals, not to exceed 2 pages itinerary budget curriculum vitae, not to exceed 2 pages three letters of support letter or email from each collection to be visited Deadlines Proposals are reviewed twice a year; application deadlines are October 15 and April 1. Awards typically will be announced within two months following the application deadline. Each grantee is required to submit a written report summarizing the scientific accomplishments achieved with the award within one month of travel completion. Questions Please email inquiries regarding the Ernst Mayr Travel Grant img_4171.jpg Funding Biodiversity Postdoctoral Fellowship Ernst Mayr Travel Grants Putnam Expedition Grants Grants-In-Aid of Undergraduate Research Miyata Grants Wetmore Colles Grant Privacy | User Agreement Harvard Museums of Science & Culture Organismic and Evolutionary Biology https://www.instagram.com/mczharvard/ https://twitter.com/MCZHarvard https://www.facebook.com/MCZHarvard/ d327872e00f44e2d502b313399641a26 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement