Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search MUSEUM OF COMPARATIVE ZOOLOGY | HARVARD.EDU HOME Services Circulation Reference Interlibrary Loans Special Collections and Archives Other Services Scholarly Resources Digital Resources E-journals MCZ Reading List New Books New Books Gallery Latest Journals Digital Collections Online Special Collections Burkhardt Collection Burkhardt Scientific Drawings Thayer Expedition Papers Thomas Barbour Travel Images Alexander Agassiz's Expedition and other images Contributions to the BHL Flickr Gallery William Brewster Papers About the Library Directions to the Library Library Mission Collaborations Library Staff History of the Library The Library Turns 150! Ernst Mayr Biography MCB Library Exchange Program EML Blog Journey to Brazil with Burkhardt The Burkhardt collection celebrates the work of Agassiz's principal artist, Jacques Burkhardt Mollusks from the Indian Ocean Two new species of Murex S.S. (Mollusca:Gastropoda:Muricidae) from the northern Indian Ocean Visiting the Ernst Mayr Library The Library is a user-focused environment providing students & faculty a place to work with historical and new materials Four New Species Documented Four new species have been documented and described by Harvard Prof. Gonzalo Giribet and biologist William Shear Biodiversity Heritage Library The Ernst Mayr Library is a founding member of the BHL which is digitizing the legacy literature of biodiversity. Thayer Expedition Papers The Ernst Mayr Library’s Thayer Expedition Papers include field notes, specimen lists, correspondence, diaries, and sketches Ernst Mayr served as Director of the MCZ from 1961-1970 Prof. Romer (left) welcomes Prof. Mayr (right) to his new office. Portrait unveiling event Ernst Mayr stands by his portrait in the Mayr Library Cervical vertebrae from Globicephala melaena (Traill, 1809), long-finned pilot whale, specimen no. 64074 Formerly on exhibit at the Northwest Science Building with related materials from the Ernst Mayr Library collection From the Ernst Mayr Library Archives This 1950s photograph of the MCZ fossils gallery is currently displayed at an exhibit at the Northwest Building This single axon, reconstructed & filtered from a dense field of thalamocortical axons, is color coded by its branch orientation All Orientations Welcome, image credit: Erin Diel, Lab of Takao Hensch Retinal Ganglion Cells relay information about the visual world into the brain Retinofugal Projections into the Optic Tectum of Larval Zebrafish, image credit: Clemens Riegler, Lab of Florian Engert This face-like image was created from a technique that makes a rat brain visible to x-rays using a heavy metal called osmium AH5 Coronal Slice 1127, image credit: Javier Masis, Lab of David Cox 3-D rendering of projection neuron dendrites in discrete structures called glomeruli Glomeruli of the Fruit Fly Antenna Lobe, image credit: Matthew Churgin, Lab of Benjamin de Bivort The Ernst Mayr Library Special Collections and MCZ Archives Reading Room Reference Assistance E-mail your request for reference assistance. Search Find Information MCZ #BlackLivesMatter BIOSIS, WOS, Zoo Record HOLLIS+ Other Scholarly Resources Recent Acquisitions New Books Latest Journals News from the EML Blog James Henry Blake (1845-1941) Andrew Garrett and the MCZ Celebrating Robert Gilbert Exhibits & Digital Projects Fossil Histories National Digital Stewardship Residency Alexander Agassiz's Expedition and Other Images Thomas Barbour Travel Images Read more... AMDigiVol Are you a fan of #ornothology? Documents from William Brewster have provided a fascinating insight into birds during the late 1800's. @MCZHarvard continue to digitise these important works - click here to get involved 🦅 #10yearsofDigiVol 👉t.co/wod3ftJaoK t.co/VKvTvAqmbl 5 months 3 weeks ago. mayrlibrary For Darwin’s finches, beak shape goes beyond evolution t.co/C4Ckmtn7my 6 months 2 weeks ago. MCZHarvard Hiding in Plain Sight: New evidence about the birth, identity, and strategic pseudonyms of John James Audubon, a new issue of the Bulletin of the MCZ, by Roberta Olson, is now available open access at t.co/L0Ijd2EC7D #MCZBulletin #Audubon t.co/9U2AGlIAV0 8 months 3 weeks ago. The Ernst Mayr Library: 26 Oxford Street, Cambridge, MA 02138. (617) 495-2475 Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement