Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Main navigation Home About Chair's Message, History, & School Facts School Leadership Advisory Board Strategic Plan Annual Report Academics Prospective Students ME Undergraduate Program NRE Undergraduate Program ME Graduate Program NREMP Graduate Program International Programs Research Faculty & Staff Life@ME Student Groups Design Sequence Wepfer Design Commons Flowers Invention Studio Electronics Lab Montgomery Machining Mall Autodesk IDEA Laboratory Student Competition Center Campus Resources News & Events News Events Seminars Lectures Engage Give Alumni Corporate Partners Spring 2022 Woodruff School Virtual Career Fair Woodruff School Connections Utility Menu - ME NRE Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Bioengineering Bioengineering Bioengineering Bioengineering is the application of engineering principles to the study and control of biological processes and systems. The goal of bioengineering research is to develop, through an integration of engineering and the life sciences, a better understanding of basic mechanisms in biology and new concepts and technologies that may be applied to problems in medicine and biology. Major areas of research at GT include the engineering of novel advanced biomaterials and medical devices; nano/micro mechanical and fluidic systems for diagnostics, therapeutic delivery, stem cell engineering, systems biology and neuroscience; cell-based therapeutic constructs, influence of mechanics in development, homeostasis, and disease; and modeling of complex biological systems. Georgia Tech is a leader in the area of tissue engineering and regenerative medicine research which involves the use of living cells and biomaterials in the development of biological substitutes. The purpose of tissue engineering is to repair, maintain, or enhance function, and it includes applications such as artificial skin, bioartificial organs, blood vessels, and connective tissue. Research Area Group Chair Brandon Dixon - dixon@gatech.edu Research Facilities Cardiovascular Fluid Mechanics Laboratory Cellular and Molecular Biomechanics Laboratory Medical Devices Laboratory Orthopaedic Bioengineering Laboratory Parker H. Petit Biotechnology Building (Faculty and graduate student offices and labs) Petit Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Recent News A New Approach to at Home Health Monitoring April 4, 2022 New Startup Makes Developing Gene Therapies Faster and Easier March 9, 2022 Scaffolding Tumor Formation Sets the Stage for Better Immunotherapies March 2, 2022 Singh Elected to AIMBE College of Fellows February 18, 2022 View News Research Faculty Costas D. Arvanitis Jaydev Desai Professor J. Brandon Dixon Professor C. Ross Ethier Adjunct Professor Andrei G. Fedorov Associate Chair for Graduate Studies Craig R. Forest Professor Andrés J. García Parker H. Petit Director's Chair in Bioengineering and Bioscience Rudolph L. Gleason Associate Professor Frank Hammond David Hu Professor YongTae (Tony) Kim Associate Professor Peter A. Kottke Research Engineer David N. Ku Lawrence P. Huang Endowed Chair Julien Meaud Associate Professor Zhanna Nepiyushchikh Research Scientist Ankur Singh Associate Professor Sharon Eve Sonenblum Principal Research Scientist Stephen Sprigle Professor Max Stockslager Research Engineer II Todd Sulchek Professor Susan Napier Thomas Associate Professor, Woodruff Professor Lena H. Ting Professor Jun Ueda Professor Levi Wood W. Hong Yeo Associate Professor Cheng Zhu Professor Faculty Directory Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 General Directory Emergency Information Human Trafficking Notice Employment Legal Legal & Privacy Information Accountability Accessibility © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources ME/NRE Footer menu 1 Student Resources Undergraduate Curriculum Undergraduate Registration Undergraduate Advising Undergraduate FAQs Graduate Handbook Graduate Advising Graduate FAQs Student Groups ME/NRE Footer menu 2 Faculty & Staff Resources Support Services Phone Directory Support Assignments (Under Construction) Forms TechWorks Facilities CoE Dean's Office Statement on Ethics & Integrity ME/NRE Footer menu 3 Quick Links Accreditation Enrollment Data College of Engineering Georgia Tech Visitor Information Privacy & Legal Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Safety Faculty Job Openings GWW School of Mechanical Engineering 801 Ferst Dr, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-3200