Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Main navigation Home About Chair's Message, History, & School Facts School Leadership Advisory Board Strategic Plan Annual Report Academics Prospective Students ME Undergraduate Program NRE Undergraduate Program ME Graduate Program NREMP Graduate Program International Programs Research Faculty & Staff Life@ME Student Groups Design Sequence Wepfer Design Commons Flowers Invention Studio Electronics Lab Montgomery Machining Mall Autodesk IDEA Laboratory Student Competition Center Campus Resources News & Events News Events Seminars Lectures Engage Give Alumni Corporate Partners Spring 2022 Woodruff School Virtual Career Fair Woodruff School Connections Utility Menu - ME NRE Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Tribology Tribology Tribology Tribology is the science, engineering, and technology of interacting surfaces in relative motion. It evolved from the classical fields of friction, lubrication, and wear, and has been a significant research area in the George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering at Georgia Tech for over four decades. Our activities fall into six major areas: contact mechanics, lubricated sliding interfaces, high pressure rheology, rotordynamics, seals and biotribology. In contact mechanics our work includes the modeling of elasto-plastic rough surfaces in sliding contact, the role of scale in surface contact, heat generation, and electrical contact resistance. Research on lubricated sliding interfaces has been directed toward studies of adhesion or stiction in small scale devices such as microeletromechanical systems (MEMS) and computer disk drives, and the lubricating behavior of soft metals. In the area of high pressure rheology our laboratory provides measurements of physical properties of liquids at high pressures which support elastohydrodynamics, fluid power, engine fuel injection, polymer processing and synthesis, petroleum recovery, and investigations of the physics of viscous flow. Our work in rotordynamics includes the dynamics and diagnostics of cracked shafts, the analysis and design of bearings at the macro and nano scales, and the mechanics of viscoelastic dampers and elastic-viscoelastic vibrating shell structures. In the area of seals, our work has been directed toward the simulation and control of mechanical seals (including reactor coolant pump seals), and the modeling of elastomeric rotary and reciprocating seals as well as static seals. In biotribology, we have been characterizing the mechanical properties of cartilage in healthy and diseased joints, and investigating the mechanisms of friction in limbless animal locomotion. Research Area Group Chair Itzhak Green - itzhak.green@me.gatech.edu Research Facilities Manufacturing Related Disciplines Complex (MRDC) (Faculty and graduate student offices and labs) Tribology and Rheology Laboratory Tribology & Surface Engineering Lab Blank Space (small) (text and background only visible when logged in) Research Faculty Richard S. Cowan Engineering Manager Steven Danyluk Professor Emeritus Itzhak Green Professor Richard W. Neu Director of Mechanical Properties Facility Richard F. Salant Professor Emeritus Michael Varenberg Adjunct Assistant Professor Ward O. Winer Regents' Professor Emeritus Faculty Directory Recent News Professor Itzhak Green Honored By ASME May 20, 2021 View News Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 General Directory Emergency Information Human Trafficking Notice Employment Legal Legal & Privacy Information Accountability Accessibility © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources ME/NRE Footer menu 1 Student Resources Undergraduate Curriculum Undergraduate Registration Undergraduate Advising Undergraduate FAQs Graduate Handbook Graduate Advising Graduate FAQs Student Groups ME/NRE Footer menu 2 Faculty & Staff Resources Support Services Phone Directory Support Assignments (Under Construction) Forms TechWorks Facilities CoE Dean's Office Statement on Ethics & Integrity ME/NRE Footer menu 3 Quick Links Accreditation Enrollment Data College of Engineering Georgia Tech Visitor Information Privacy & Legal Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Safety Faculty Job Openings GWW School of Mechanical Engineering 801 Ferst Dr, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-3200