Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering Main navigation Home About Chair's Message, History, & School Facts School Leadership Advisory Board Strategic Plan Annual Report Academics Prospective Students ME Undergraduate Program NRE Undergraduate Program ME Graduate Program NREMP Graduate Program International Programs Research Faculty & Staff Life@ME Student Groups Design Sequence Wepfer Design Commons Flowers Invention Studio Electronics Lab Montgomery Machining Mall Autodesk IDEA Laboratory Student Competition Center Campus Resources News & Events News Events Seminars Lectures Engage Give Alumni Corporate Partners Spring 2022 Woodruff School Virtual Career Fair Woodruff School Connections Utility Menu - ME NRE Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing is the production of goods and services using raw materials and labor, and forms the basis of wealthcreation in Georgia, the United States, and globally. The improvement of manufacturing processes is the key to raising the standard of living of all the peoples of the world. Many of the specific issues associated with manufacturing are being done by mechanical engineers and the Manufacturing Research Area Group in particular. The Manufacturing Research Area Group is doing research in many of the key areas of manufacturing and directly contributing to raising the standard of living of the world's population. Faculty are addressing issues such as the development of processes for creation of materials and material surfaces (textures) and interfaces, by machining and molding, for such varied uses as reducing drag of automobiles and creating the next generation data storage devices, and the development of concepts and tools (electro-opto-mechanical) for automated assembly. Metals, semiconductors, polymers and composites are being studied. Specific areas of research include micro-electro-mechanical systems for the next generation microelectronic interconnections, development of automation and controls for electronics assembly, development of automated control strategies for food production, sensor design and fabrication for manufacturing process control, development of sensors for surface geometric and chemical measurement and control (metrology), development of processes for micro-molding, micro-machining, and laser-assisted processing, the production of MEMS and NEMS devices, the development of additive manufacturing processes, the development of processes for manufacturing medical devices and flexible electronic circuits and devices. Quality and reliability testing of manufactured products and devices are areas of active research opportunities within the group. Research Area Group Chair Christopher Saldaña - christopher.saldana@me.gatech.edu Research Facilities Advanced Assembly Process Technology (AdAPT) Laboratory Advanced Electronic Packaging Laboratory Center for Additive Manufacturing Center for Polymer Processing Tribology and Surface Engineering Lab Manufacturing Research Center (Faculty and graduate students offices and labs) Precision Machining Research Consortium Recent News Rosen Honored by ASTM February 18, 2022 Researchers Using $5.3 Million in DoE Funding to Reduce Energy, Water Consumption, and Emissions in Fiber Composite Products and Wallboard Manufacturing January 25, 2022 Kurfess Named Interim Associate Chair for Research January 10, 2022 Georgia Tech Leads Effort to Strengthen State’s Defense Manufacturing Industry December 16, 2021 View News Research Faculty Nazanin Bassiri-Gharb Harris Saunders, Jr. Chair Bert Bras Associate Chair for Administration Ye-Hwa Chen Professor Jonathan S. Colton Professor Steven Danyluk Professor Emeritus Suman Das Morris M. Bryan, Jr. Chair Andrei G. Fedorov Associate Chair for Graduate Studies Tequila A. L. Harris Associate Professor Peter J. Hesketh Professor Roger Jiao Associate Professor Kyriaki Kalaitzidou Associate Chair for Faculty Development Thomas Kurfess HUSCO/Ramirez Distinguished Chair Steven Y. Liang Morris M. Bryan, Jr. Professor J. Rhett Mayor Associate Professor Leon McGinnis Professor Emeritus Shreyes N. Melkote Morris M. Bryan, Jr. Professor Raghuram V. Pucha Principal Lecturer David W. Rosen Professor Sourabh Saha Assistant Professor Christopher J. Saldaña Ring Family Professor, Associate Professor Jianjun (Jan) Shi Professor Suresh K. Sitaraman Regents' Professor and Morris M. Bryan, Jr. Professor Aaron Stebner Associate Professor Jun Ueda Professor Yan Wang Professor Min Zhou Professor Faculty Directory Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 General Directory Emergency Information Human Trafficking Notice Employment Legal Legal & Privacy Information Accountability Accessibility © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources ME/NRE Footer menu 1 Student Resources Undergraduate Curriculum Undergraduate Registration Undergraduate Advising Undergraduate FAQs Graduate Handbook Graduate Advising Graduate FAQs Student Groups ME/NRE Footer menu 2 Faculty & Staff Resources Support Services Phone Directory Support Assignments (Under Construction) Forms TechWorks Facilities CoE Dean's Office Statement on Ethics & Integrity ME/NRE Footer menu 3 Quick Links Accreditation Enrollment Data College of Engineering Georgia Tech Visitor Information Privacy & Legal Information Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Safety Faculty Job Openings GWW School of Mechanical Engineering 801 Ferst Dr, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-3200