Skip to main content College of Sciences Marine, Earth and Atmospheric Sciences Menu Close About Visit Us Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Giving Weekly Updates Undergraduate Programs Transfer Students Life at MEAS Graduate Apply to MEAS Programs Life at MEAS FAQ Research Marine Sciences Research Earth Sciences Research Atmospheric Sciences Research Research Groups Centers and Facilities People Emeritus Faculty Faculty Research Faculty Adjunct Faculty Visiting Faculty Grad Students Staff Postdocs Events About About Visit Us Contact Us Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Giving Weekly Updates Undergraduate Undergraduate Programs Transfer Students Life at MEAS Graduate Graduate Apply to MEAS Programs Life at MEAS FAQ Research Research Marine Sciences Research Earth Sciences Research Atmospheric Sciences Research Research Groups Centers and Facilities People People Emeritus Faculty Faculty Research Faculty Adjunct Faculty Visiting Faculty Grad Students Staff Postdocs Events Events Understanding Our Planet The oceans, atmosphere and landscape all influence one another. Faculty and researchers in our department work across these environments to tackle the grand scientific challenges of today and tomorrow. MEAS is dedicated to excellence in research, teaching and promoting a diverse and inclusive environment that allows all members of the department to thrive. Return to Campus and Covid Help Information Please visit for more information. Undergraduate Students Your studies in the MEAS department build a strong foundation for future graduate study or work in the field. Discover our majors Graduate Students Joining the MEAS department opens many opportunities for your academic and professional career. See what we offer Faculty and Researchers Faculty, graduate students and other researchers represent a wide array of expertise in an ever-changing field. Learn who’s who 95% Placement Nearly all MEAS graduate degree recipients in the past five years found employment in their fields or went on to further graduate study.Explore MEAS graduate studies MEAS researchers developed HazMapper a freely available, global geo-hazard mapping application running in the cloud on Google Earth EngineRead more Calendar More Events Jun 08 Wednesday10:00 AM M.S. Graduate Student Defense Jun 09 Thursday9:30 AM MS Graduate Student Defense What’s Happening News and Features Getting a Better View of Landslide Risk With LiDAR Geologists use LiDAR to try and figure out where landslides are more likely to occur. NC State Announces 2021-22 Goodnight Early Career Innovators￼ NC State announced its 2021-22 class of Goodnight Early Career Innovators today. This program recognizes and rewards promising NC State early-career faculty whose scholarship is in STEM or STEM education. The 25 faculty selected will receive $22,000 for each of the next three years to support their scholarship and research endeavors. NC State Researchers Predict Active Hurricane Season 2022 will be an active year for hurricanes, with 17 to 21 named storms predicted. Department of Marine, Earth, and Atmospheric Sciences Home 2800 Faucette Drive, 1125 Jordan Hall Campus Box 8208 NC State University Raleigh, North Carolina 27695 919-515-3711 Faculty and Staff Resources MEAS Directory Campus Map Accessibility News Jobs Give MyPack Portal Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.