Latest information on COVID-19 Skip to Content Skip to Local Navigation Skip to Global Navigation Stanford Medicine Site Nav Menu Stanford Medicine Explore Stanford Medicine Health Care Find a doctor Adult-care doctor Pediatrician or pediatric specialist Obstetrician Clinics & Services Adult care Pediatric care Obstetrics Clinical trials Locations Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Emergency Department Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency Explore Health Care Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion Back Research Basic science departments Clinical science departments Institutes Research centers See full directory Research Resources Research administration Academic profiles Clinical trials Funding opportunities See all Professional Training Postdoctoral scholars Clinical research fellows Research News Stanford team stimulates neurons to induce particular perceptions in mice's minds Explore Research Learn how we are fueling innovation Back Education MD program PA Programs PhD programs Masters programs Continuing Medical Education Postdoctoral scholars Residencies & fellowships High School & Undergraduate Programs See all Education Resources Academic profiles School Administration Basic science departments Clinical science departments Alumni services Faculty resources Diversity programs Lane Library Student resources Education News Students from far and near begin medical studies at Stanford Explore Education Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders Back Give Support Stanford Medicine Support teaching, research, and patient care. Ways to give Why giving matters Make a gift online Support Children's Health Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health Ways to give How your gift helps Make an online gift Back About About us News Contacts Maps & directions Leadership Vision Diversity Global health Community engagement Events How you can help Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Back Site Search Submit Search Query Stanford Medicine Education High school and undergraduate programs High School & Undergraduate Programs Stanford Medicine has a number of opportunities for high school students and undergraduates at Stanford and other schools preparing for a future in medicine or science. Undergraduate Programs | For Both High School Students & Undergraduates | High School Programs share Undergraduate Programs Canary Cancer Research Education Summer Training Program (CREST) This 10-week program matches participants with a faculty mentor who helps them craft a research project in a state-of-the-art lab. Dia de los Muertos Pre-Health Conference This day-long event provides academic, professional, cultural and social support to Chicanos and Latinos pursuing careers in the areas of science, medicine and public health. The three Chicanos/Latinos in Health Education (C.H.E.) groups in the Bay Area (UC Berkeley, UC Davis, and Stanford) rotate hosting the annual conference. Stanford Summer Research Program This fully-funded residential program helps undergraduates of diverse backgrounds prepare for PhD programs in the sciences. Stanford Summer Premedical Programs This six-week residential program targets community college students in the Northern California region, providing exposure to medicine and health through a variety of topics. Undergraduate Pre-Renal Initiative Stanford's Pre-Renal Initiative seeks to develop a thriving research training program for undergraduate students in adult and pediatric nephrology and (benign) urology. During the 10-week summer program, students work full-time in the labs and clinics of Pre-Renal Faculty Mentors. Stanford University Minority Medical Alliance Pre-Health Conference Ideal for undergraduate students considering medicine as a career, this day-long conference offers an in-depth experience of what it takes to enter the medical field and succeed. Cardinal Free Clinics Cardinal Free Clinics educate and empower the next generation of health care leaders through internships to proactively address health disparities and improve access to care in their communities. Ethnicity and Medicine A spring lecture series that challenges undergraduate students to explore how culture and language impact the effectiveness of clinical encounters. Leadership Education for Aspiring Physicians (LEAP) LEAP is a project-based seminar series designed for Bay Area premedical students seeking structured leadership development while improving community health and wellness. For Both High School Students & Undergraduates Stanford Anesthesia Summer Institute An engaging two-week program for undergraduates and high school students interested in exploring careers in STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math), medicine, and health technology. Stanford faculty mentor students as they work towards solving real healthcare design challenges. Stanford Cardiovascular Surgery Internship This internship is designed for high school and undergraduate students considering careers in cardiovascular physiology and incorporates commonly used medical and surgical techniques. Stanford Clinical Internship A two-week program for premed undergraduates and motivated high school students interested in medicine. The curriculum includes lectures about medical specialties, laboratory learning opportunities, and sessions with current students and medical school admissions officers. Civic Engagement Symposium This symposium explores multidisciplinary approaches toward improving health, illness, and wellness. Presenters have have developed and implemented community health – related projects, events, activities, programs and initiatives with a community or educational partner. Stanford STARS Internship Program Interns with the Science, Technology, and Reconstructive Surgery (STaRS) summer program spend seven weeks mastering basic lab techniques, participating in research projects, and presenting their work, all under the mentorship of experienced researchers. High School Programs Stanford Institutes of Medicine Summer Program This eight-week program gives high school students from diverse backgrounds the opportunity to pursue basic research with Stanford faculty, postdoctoral scholars and students on a medically oriented project. Stanford Medical Youth Science Program This fully funded summer residential program helps low-income and ethnically underrepresented sophomore and junior high school students from Northern California to prepare for careers in medicine. SMASH Medical Curriculum A free-of-cost, STEM-intensive college preparation program for underrepresented and low-income high school students, this five-week program is comprised of five sessions designed to expose the students to a range of healthcare careers. Stanford EXPLORE This four-week lecture series provides an introduction to current research conducted by faculty in Stanford Medicine's Institutes of Medicine, as well as research in the fields of bioengineering and genetics. Clinical Neuroscience Immersion Experience at Stanford This intensive one-week summer program includes interactive seminars with Stanford faculty and researchers, and the opportunity to work on a team to develop solutions to social issues related to psychiatry, psychology or neuroscience. Pediatrics Internship Program at Stanford (PIPS) The Pediatrics Internship Program at Stanford (PIPS) is a 6-week program in which high school students from diverse backgrounds are invited to learn about science, medicine, and research with Stanford faculty, postdoctoral fellows, students and researchers on a medically-oriented project. The goals of the program include increasing interest in biological sciences and medicine in high school students, helping students to understand how scientific research is performed, and increasing diversity of students and researchers in the sciences. About the School of Medicine Stanford University School of Medicine consistently ranks among the top U.S. medical schools, and faculty members routinely secure the highest amount of research funding per investigator in the country. Academic Resources Academic calendar Career center Course catalog Diversity programs Events Lane Library Academic Profiles Search faculty, students, and staff by name or topic. Search Stanford Medicine profiles Stanford Medicine News Events Careers Contact Health Care Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Research Basic Science Departments Clinical Science Departments Centers & Programs Institutes Education A-Z Directory Academic Programs Faculty Development & Diversity School Contacts Find People Visit Stanford Search Clinical Trials Give a Gift ©2022 Stanford Medicine Privacy Policy Terms of Use See us on Facebook See us on Twitter Stanford University Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford University Healthcare Alliance