Latest information on COVID-19 Skip to Content Skip to Local Navigation Skip to Global Navigation Stanford Medicine News Center Site Nav Menu See us on facebook See us on twitter See us on youtube See us on linkedin See us on instagram Stanford Medicine Explore Stanford Medicine Health Care Find a doctor Adult-care doctor Pediatrician or pediatric specialist Obstetrician Clinics & Services Adult care Pediatric care Obstetrics Clinical trials Locations Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Emergency Department Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency Explore Health Care Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion Back Research Basic science departments Clinical science departments Institutes Research centers See full directory Research Resources Research administration Academic profiles Clinical trials Funding opportunities See all Professional Training Postdoctoral scholars Clinical research fellows Research News Stanford team stimulates neurons to induce particular perceptions in mice's minds Explore Research Learn how we are fueling innovation Back Education MD program PA Programs PhD programs Masters programs Continuing Medical Education Postdoctoral scholars Residencies & fellowships High School & Undergraduate Programs See all Education Resources Academic profiles School Administration Basic science departments Clinical science departments Alumni services Faculty resources Diversity programs Lane Library Student resources Education News Students from far and near begin medical studies at Stanford Explore Education Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders Back Give Support Stanford Medicine Support teaching, research, and patient care. Ways to give Why giving matters Make a gift online Support Children's Health Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health Ways to give How your gift helps Make an online gift Back About About us News Contacts Maps & directions Leadership Vision Diversity Global health Community engagement Events How you can help Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Back Site Search Submit Search Query Toggle Dropdown MenuMenu Scope Blog Stanford Medicine Magazine Of Note COVID-19 Updates Topics Topics Administration Aging Big Data Biochemistry Bioengineering Cancer Cardiovascular Health Chemical Biology Chronic Disease COVID-19 Developmental Biology Education Genetics Global Health Health Policy Hearing Imaging Immunology Infectious Disease Mental Health Neuroscience Nutrition Obituaries Pain Patient Care Pediatrics Precision Health Preventive Medicine Sleep Stem Cells Surgery Technology Transplantation Urology Women's Health Search Stanford Medicine News 2019 01 Gun injury readmissions cost $86 million a year Story Short-term hospital readmissions for gun injuries cost $86 million a year share A study from Stanford researchers has found that readmissions account for 9.5 percent of the $911 million spent annually on gun-injury hospitalizations. January 23, 2019 - By Amy Jeter Hansen Sarabeth Spitzer Hospital readmissions of patients within six months of suffering a firearm injury cost taxpayers, private insurers and uninsured families an average of $86 million a year from 2010 through 2015, according to new estimates from Stanford University School of Medicine researchers. During that six-year period, the annual cost of hospitalizations for gun injuries averaged $911 million, with the government shouldering 45 percent of the bill through Medicaid and, to a lesser extent, Medicare and other public insurance programs, the researchers found. With most gunshot-wound patients surviving their initial hospital stay, the analysis, which was published online Jan. 23 in PLOS ONE, sheds new light on the chronic nature of firearm injuries and the resulting medical costs. However, the estimates offer only a piece of a larger puzzle, as the numbers do not include the costs of non-inpatient services, such as medications, rehabilitation, long-term care or home health care, said Sarabeth Spitzer, a fourth-year medical student at Stanford who is the study’s lead author. “So often gun injuries are talked about in terms of mortality, as one-time events for medical care,” Spitzer said. “What tends to be forgotten are the long-term effects these injuries have on the people who survive and the monetary costs to the health care system.” Thomas Weiser, MD, associate professor of surgery, is the study’s senior author. Risk of readmission for firearm injuries Examining six years of data from the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project’s Nationwide Readmissions Database, Spitzer and her colleagues found that 93 percent of the patients initially admitted to the hospital with firearm injuries survived. Of those 155,574 patients, the study showed that 15.6 percent were readmitted one or more times within six months, amounting to more than 33,000 hospital readmissions during the study period. More than half occurred within 30 days of the original discharge. We end up as a society paying a huge amount for these injuries. Risk of readmission was highest for patients who were older, suffered more severe injuries, stayed in the hospital longer during their initial admission or required surgery. Patients covered by Medicare had the highest risk of readmission, followed by patients covered by Medicaid. Self-paying patients were the least likely to be rehospitalized for ZIP codes where the population has incomes lower than average, according to the study. “We do not necessarily think their injuries are less severe,” Spitzer said. “It could be that they don’t seek care in circumstances where other patients, who are covered by insurance, would take advantage of that health insurance.” Costs of hospitalization, readmission Overall, government insurance paid the most for hospitalizations related to firearm injuries during the six-year period, according to the study. Of a total $5.47 billion in costs, Medicaid contributed $2.1 billion and Medicare provided $389 million. Private insurance and self-paying patients each accounted for about $1.1 billion, while the remainder was covered by other payers. On average, the total cost of inpatient hospital care for a patient with a firearm injury was $32,700, the study found, and readmission accounted for 9.5 percent of that bill. Spitzer said she hopes the numbers help fill in a larger picture of the effects of gun violence. She is founder and co-director of the nonprofit Scrubs Addressing the Firearm Epidemic, or SAFE, which promotes research, education and evidence-based policy as a means to reduce firearm injuries. “We end up as a society paying a huge amount for these injuries,” Spitzer said. “These numbers draw attention to the fact there are consequences we all face when people are injured by guns.” Other Stanford co-authors of the study are David Spain, MD, professor of surgery; surgery resident Charlotte Rajasingh, MD; research scientist Lakshika Tennakoon; and medical student Daniel Vail. The Stanford Medical Scholars Research Program and the Department of Surgery supported the work. Amy Jeter Hansen Amy Jeter Hansen is a communications and digital media strategist in the Office of Communications. Email her at ajeterhansen@stanford.edu. Media Contacts Amy Jeter Hansen Tel 650-497-6995 amy2@stanford.edu Margarita Gallardo Tel 650-723-7897 mjgallardo@stanford.edu Stanford Medicine integrates research, medical education and health care at its three institutions - Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford Health Care (formerly Stanford Hospital & Clinics), and Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford. For more information, please visit the Office of Communication & Public Affairs site at http://mednews.stanford.edu. Related News March 21, 2017 Initial hospital costs for gunshot wounds just 'tip of the iceberg' Stanford researchers report that the $6.6 billion figure is just the tip of the iceberg: It does not include costs of emergency room visits or hospital readmissions. Topics Surgery Health Policy All Topics Stanford Medicine Magazine 2021 ISSUE 2 The most mysterious organ Unlocking the secrets of the brain COVID-19 Updates Stanford Medicine is closely monitoring the outbreak of novel coronavirus (COVID-19). A dedicated page provides the latest information and developments related to the pandemic. COVID-19 Updates News Center News Center Office of Communications For Journalists For Faculty & Staff School Policies Contacts News Sources Scope Blog Stanford Medicine Magazine Stanford Health Care Newsroom Stanford Children's Health Newsroom Stanford School of Medicine About Contact Maps & Directions Jobs Basic Science Departments Clinical Science Departments Academic Programs Vision Find People Visit Stanford Search Clinical Trials Give a Gift ©2022 Stanford Medicine Privacy Policy Terms of Use See us on Facebook See us on Twitter Stanford University Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford University Healthcare Alliance