Latest information on COVID-19 Skip to Content Skip to Local Navigation Skip to Global Navigation Stanford Medicine Diversity at Stanford Medicine Site Nav Menu See us on twitter See us on instagram Stanford Medicine Explore Stanford Medicine Health Care Find a doctor Adult-care doctor Pediatrician or pediatric specialist Obstetrician Clinics & Services Adult care Pediatric care Obstetrics Clinical trials Locations Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Emergency Department Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency Explore Health Care Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion Back Research Basic science departments Clinical science departments Institutes Research centers See full directory Research Resources Research administration Academic profiles Clinical trials Funding opportunities See all Professional Training Postdoctoral scholars Clinical research fellows Research News Stanford team stimulates neurons to induce particular perceptions in mice's minds Explore Research Learn how we are fueling innovation Back Education MD program PA Programs PhD programs Masters programs Continuing Medical Education Postdoctoral scholars Residencies & fellowships High School & Undergraduate Programs See all Education Resources Academic profiles School Administration Basic science departments Clinical science departments Alumni services Faculty resources Diversity programs Lane Library Student resources Education News Students from far and near begin medical studies at Stanford Explore Education Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders Back Give Support Stanford Medicine Support teaching, research, and patient care. Ways to give Why giving matters Make a gift online Support Children's Health Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health Ways to give How your gift helps Make an online gift Back About About us News Contacts Maps & directions Leadership Vision Diversity Global health Community engagement Events How you can help Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Back Site Search Submit Search Query Diversity Cabinet Diversity Cabinet Subcommittees Task Forces Diversity Cabinet Milestones Commission on Justice & Equity Programs Affiliated Offices Anti-Racism Resources Health Equity D-CORE DIVERSITY IS A CORE VALUE Our goal is to draw from people with a variety of backgrounds and life experiences to reach a new level of innovation in instruction, research, and patient care. Varied perspectives encourage new strategies that ensure diversity is reflected in our programs, culture, and leadership. Celebrating AANHPI Events/lectures on campus Stop Hate Resources/Support Honor Older Americans White House Proclamation Connect with the Stanford Jewish Community Hillel Upcoming Events Black Lives Matter Find curated resources for education, donation and activism, and self-care Solidarity Rally We denounce acts of hate and intolerance Celebrate May 17 Learn more Stanford Medicine Pride Find Community Lecture Series Learn more Message from Dean Lloyd Minor As a preeminent academic medical center, Stanford Medicine is dedicated to improving human health through discovery and care. And at the heart of this enduring mission is a diverse group of Stanford Medicine faculty, students, trainees, and staff contributing immeasurably. That is why we at Stanford Medicine hold diversity and inclusion as core values, and why we continue to strive, in many different ways, to create a welcoming environment for all individuals, from all backgrounds. We have made significant progress, but we cannot be satisfied until we know that all individuals feel fully supported in achieving their potential. By creating a more inclusive Stanford Medicine community and working to eliminate health and educational inequalities everywhere, we act not only on the side of justice, we fulfill our vision of bringing hope and healing to all people around the world. Dean Minor speaks with Dr. Augustus White, the first African American graduate from Stanford's School of Medicine. Black Resident Spotlight We aim to support and uplift our incredible community of Black Housestaff. Please enjoy a glimpse into their unique experiences here at Stanford. #RepresentationMatters #DiversityInMedicine #WhatADoctorLooksLike #StanfordMed View more Black resident spotlight videos Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, and Access in a Learning Environment (IDEAL) Survey In May of 2021, Stanford conducted the first university-wide IDEAL diversity, equity, and inclusion survey. See results Contact Us Questions about admissions? Don’t see your program? Need to update your program? Want to get involved? We look forward to hearing from you. Contact Us Powered by OFDD This site is produced by the Office of Faculty Development and Diversity Learn more about OFDD Spotlight & News Dean Lloyd Minor Honored by American Otological Society The American Otological Society (AOS) has awarded the 2022 Award of Merit to Lloyd B. Minor, MD, professor of Otolaryngology – Head & Neck Surgery and dean of Stanford School of Medicine. Read more The Honor and Obligation of Being Black in a White Coat Black physicians and alumni of Stanford Medicine discussed their experiences in the medical profession, from serving as role models to feeling isolated. Watch highlight & learn more Congratulations Dr. Iris Gibbs! Dr. Iris Gibbs has been awarded a 2022 Distinguished Alumni Award from the National Medical Fellowships (NMF). Learn more Stanford School of Medicine Class of 2020 Video Stanford Medical School presents a parody of "No Scrubs" by TLC, "My Shot" from Hamilton, and "Positions" by Ariana Grande. Produced, directed, and performed by the entering class of 2020. Watch now on YouTube New Black Lives Matter Website Anti-racism is an ongoing responsibility. Stanford Medicine launches a Black Lives Matter website, an archive of the weekly Anti-Racism Coalition (ARC) posts in 2020-2021. Explore and read the entries and share with friends and colleagues. Visit the website Expanding Healthcare Access for Underserved Populations The Stanford School of Medicine plans to expand clinical research and healthcare access for historically marginalized and underserved populations. Learn more Congratulations Sedona Murphy & Peter Poullos Sedona Murphy and Peter Poullos are being honored and recognized for their contributions to diversity, equity, and inclusion. They will receive the 2022 President’s Awards for Excellence through Diversity. Learn more Awards for Promoting Diversity in Medicine Fernando Mendoza, MD, professor emeritus of pediatrics; Monica Ruiz, MD, a fellow in pediatric critical care; and medical student Adrian Delgado were honored for their efforts to diversify the medical field and promote health equity. Read more Learning to Address Anti-Black Racism in the Clinic Stanford researchers have developed a workshop that is being offered across the country to teach clinicians how to better communicate with patients about race to address anti-Black racism in health care and promote health equity. Learn more Featuring Dr. Amber R. Moore Learn about our recent immunology graduate, Dr. Moore, and become inspired by her personal journey. See HBCU March Newsletter Abby King Awarded Roland Volunteer Service Prize The professor of medicine is recognized for her work engaging students in improving public health by making tools and resources accessible to underserved communities. Learn more See more diversity related articles in the Stanford Medicine Scope Blog 2021 - 2022 Innovation Grant Recipients Becky Blankenburg, Associate Chair of Education and Clinical Professor, Pediatrics Impact of Coaching on Residents’ Sense of Belonging, Inclusion, Wellness, and Professional Identity Formation for Underrepresented and non-Underrepresented in Medicine Residents Kevin Chi, Clinical Assistant Professor, Pediatrics & Samantha Wang, Clinical Assistant Professor, Internal Medicine The 5-Minute Moment for Racial Justice: A Multimedia Digital Platform for Identifying and Addressing Racism in Medical Decision Making Ravi Majeti, Professor, Medicine & Tian Zhang, Assistant Professor, Medicine Improving Intercultural Competencies Utilizing the Intercultural Development Inventory Peter Poullos, Clinical Associate Professor, Radiology Mutual Mentorship Program for Persons with Disability in Medicine Donna Zulman, Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine, Division of Primary Care and Population Health Presence 5 for Racial Justice – National Virtual Community Advisory Board to Design Online CME See abstracts and research proposals Staff Announcements New Director of Historically Black Colleges & Universities (HBCU) Engagement As the new director, Dr. Judith Ned will provide oversight for all aspects of Historically Black Colleges & Universities (HBCU) engagement across Stanford Medicine; develop and assess programming to increase diversity, equity, inclusion and belonging (DEIB) for HBCU engagement participants (e.g., faculty, staff, and students); and monitor practices on diversity recruitment and retention to propose new guidelines/practices for DEIB where appropriate. Dr. Ned also works with the Office of Graduate Education (OGE), Biosciences on HBCU and other Minority Serving Institutions (MSI) related projects and previously served as the Assistant Dean of Medical Degree Admissions for the SoM. As an agent of change, Dr. Ned understands change happens by direct involvement in matters that impact the well-being of society. Her appreciation for and commitment to diversity, equity, and inclusion are products of her life experiences as a student, educator, administrator, community advocate, and citizen of this country. Contact Judith Ned Associate Director of the Racial Equity to Advance a Community of Health (REACH) Initiative Meet Kewana Nichols, the inaugural Associate Director of the Racial Equity to Advance a Community of Health (REACH) Initiative. Operating in tandem with Stanford Medicine’s Commission on Justice and Equity, The REACH Initiative at Stanford Medicine is dedicated to training a new generation of leaders in medicine and science who will actively promote equity and social justice while working to reduce society’s devastating health disparities. As the new Associate Director, Ms. Nichols will provide leadership and support for REACH’s various programs: Postbaccalaureate Experience in Research, MD/MS Program in Health Equity Research, Scholarly Concentration in Health Equity and Social Justice, Clinical Clerkship in Community Health of the Undeserved, and REACH Bioscience Ph.D. Fellowship. Ms. Nichols will also support REACH’s HBCU Visiting Student and Faculty Exchange Program. Ms. Nichols is a first-generation UC Davis alumna passionate about DEI. She most recently served as Co-Chair for the Stanford Pediatrics Advancing Anti-Racism Coalition (SPAARC) Leadership Representation Committee. Contact Kewana Nichols Director of Equity and Strategic Programs for Stanford Medicine Meet Gisell Quihuis, Ph.D., the inaugural Director of Equity and Strategic Programs for Stanford Medicine. As the new director, Dr. Quihuis will provide strategy leadership and support for Stanford Medicine's diversity and inclusion efforts spanning the School of Medicine, Stanford Health Care, and Stanford Children's Health, with a focus on recommendations from the Commission on Justice and Equity. Dr. Quihuis has long served as a champion for justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion, with an emphasis on developing robust training and programming for faculty, staff, and students. Dr. Quihuis is motivated by her lived experiences as a Stanford alumna and proud first-generation, woman of color born to poor immigrant fieldworkers. Contact Gisell Quihuis Find People Visit Stanford Search Clinical Trials Give a Gift ©2022 Stanford Medicine Privacy Policy Terms of Use See us on Facebook See us on Twitter Stanford University Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford University Healthcare Alliance