Latest information on COVID-19 Skip to Content Skip to Local Navigation Skip to Global Navigation Stanford Medicine News Center Site Nav Menu See us on facebook See us on twitter See us on youtube See us on linkedin See us on instagram Stanford Medicine Explore Stanford Medicine Health Care Find a doctor Adult-care doctor Pediatrician or pediatric specialist Obstetrician Clinics & Services Adult care Pediatric care Obstetrics Clinical trials Locations Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Emergency Department Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency Explore Health Care Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion Back Research Basic science departments Clinical science departments Institutes Research centers See full directory Research Resources Research administration Academic profiles Clinical trials Funding opportunities See all Professional Training Postdoctoral scholars Clinical research fellows Research News Stanford team stimulates neurons to induce particular perceptions in mice's minds Explore Research Learn how we are fueling innovation Back Education MD program PA Programs PhD programs Masters programs Continuing Medical Education Postdoctoral scholars Residencies & fellowships High School & Undergraduate Programs See all Education Resources Academic profiles School Administration Basic science departments Clinical science departments Alumni services Faculty resources Diversity programs Lane Library Student resources Education News Students from far and near begin medical studies at Stanford Explore Education Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders Back Give Support Stanford Medicine Support teaching, research, and patient care. Ways to give Why giving matters Make a gift online Support Children's Health Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health Ways to give How your gift helps Make an online gift Back About About us News Contacts Maps & directions Leadership Vision Diversity Global health Community engagement Events How you can help Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Back Site Search Submit Search Query Toggle Dropdown MenuMenu Scope Blog Stanford Medicine Magazine Of Note COVID-19 Updates Topics Topics Administration Aging Big Data Biochemistry Bioengineering Cancer Cardiovascular Health Chemical Biology Chronic Disease COVID-19 Developmental Biology Education Genetics Global Health Health Policy Hearing Imaging Immunology Infectious Disease Mental Health Neuroscience Nutrition Obituaries Pain Patient Care Pediatrics Precision Health Preventive Medicine Sleep Stem Cells Surgery Technology Transplantation Urology Women's Health Search Stanford Medicine News 2018 01 Good math attitude boosts memory power Story Positive attitude toward math predicts math achievement in kids share A positive attitude toward math boosts the brain’s memory center and predicts math performance independent of factors such as a child’s IQ, a Stanford study has found. January 24, 2018 - By Erin Digitale A new Stanford study found that kids with a positive attitude toward math performed better in the subject. Pressmaster/Shutterstock For the first time, scientists have identified the brain pathway that links a positive attitude toward math to achievement in the subject. In a study of elementary school students, researchers at the Stanford University School of Medicine found that having a positive attitude about math was connected to better function of the hippocampus, an important memory center in the brain, during performance of arithmetic problems. The findings were published online Jan. 24 in Psychological Science. Educators have long observed higher math scores in children who show more interest in math and perceive themselves as being better at it. But it has not been clear if this attitude simply reflects other capacities, such as higher intelligence. The new study found that, even once IQ and other confounding factors were accounted for, a positive attitude toward math still predicted which students had stronger math performance. ‘Attitude is really important’ “Attitude is really important,” said Lang Chen, PhD, the study’s lead author and a postdoctoral scholar in psychiatry and behavioral sciences. “Based on our data, the unique contribution of positive attitude to math achievement is as large as the contribution from IQ.” The scientists had not expected the contribution of attitude to be so large, Chen said. The mechanism underlying its link to cognitive performance was also unexpected. “It was really surprising to see that the link works through a very classical learning and memory system in the brain,” said the study’s senior author, Vinod Menon, PhD, professor of psychiatry and behavioral sciences. Vinod Menon Researchers had previously hypothesized that the brain’s reward centers might drive the link between attitude and achievement — perhaps children with better attitudes were better at math because they found it more rewarding or motivating. “Instead, we saw that if you have a strong interest and self-perceived ability in math, it results in enhanced memory and more efficient engagement of the brain’s problem-solving capacities,” Menon said. The researchers administered standard questionnaires to 240 children ages 7 to 10, assessing demographics, IQ, reading ability and working-memory capacity. The children’s level of math achievement was measured with tests of their knowledge of arithmetic facts and ability to solve math word problems. Parents or guardians answered surveys about the children’s behavioral and emotional characteristics, as well as their anxiety about math and general anxiety. Children also answered a survey that assessed their attitude toward math, including questions about interest in math and self-perceived math ability, as well as their attitude toward academics in general. Forty-seven children from the group also participated in MRI brain scans while performing arithmetic problems. Tests were conducted outside the MRI scanner to discern which problem-solving strategies they used. An independent group of 28 children also was given MRI scans and other assessments in an attempt to replicate the findings from the cohort previously given brain scans. Opening the door Math performance correlated with a positive attitude toward math even after statistically controlling for IQ, working memory, math anxiety, general anxiety and general attitude toward academics, the study found. Children with poor attitudes toward math rarely performed well in the subject, while those with strongly positive attitudes had a range of math achievement. “A positive attitude opens the door for children to do well but does not guarantee that they will; that depends on other factors as well,” Chen said. From the brain-imaging results, the scientists found that, when a child was solving a math problem, his or her positive-attitude scores correlated with activation in the hippocampus, an important memory and learning center in the brain. Activity in the brain’s reward centers, including the amygdala and the ventral striatum, was not linked to a positive attitude toward math. Statistical modeling of the brain imaging results suggested that the hippocampus mediates the link between positive attitude and efficient retrieval of facts from memory, which in turn is associated with better problem solving abilities. “Having a positive attitude acts directly on your memory and learning system,” Chen said. “I think that’s really important and interesting.” Having a positive attitude acts directly on your memory and learning system. The study could not disentangle the extent to which a positive attitude came from a child’s prior success in math. “We think the relationship between positive attitude and math achievement is mutual, bi-directional,” Chen said. “We think it’s like bootstrapping: A good attitude opens the door to high achievement, which means you then have a better attitude, getting you into a good circle of learning. And it can probably go the other way and be a vicious circle, too.” The findings may provide a new avenue for improving academic performance and learning in children who are struggling, Menon said, cautioning that this idea still needs to be tested through active interventions. “Typically, we focus on skill learning in individual academic domains, but our new work suggests that looking at children’s beliefs about a subject and their self-perceived abilities might provide another inroad to maximizing learning,” Menon said. The findings also offer a potential explanation for how a particularly passionate teacher can nurture students’ interest and learning capacities for a subject, he added. Inspiring teachers may be instinctively sharing their own interest, as well as instilling students in the belief that they can be good at the subject, building a positive attitude even if the student did not have it before. Other Stanford authors of the paper are former research assistant Se Ri Bae; research scientists Shaozheng Qin, PhD, and Tianwen Chen, PhD; and former postdoctoral scholars Christian Battista, PhD, and Tanya Evans, PhD. Menon is a member of Stanford’s Child Health Research Institute, Stanford Bio-X and the Stanford Neurosciences Institute. The research was funded by the National Institutes of Health (grants HD047520, HD059205 and HD057610). Stanford’s Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences also supported the work. Erin Digitale Erin Digitale is the pediatrics science writer in the Office of Communications. Email her at digitale@stanford.edu. Media Contacts Erin Digitale Tel 650-724-9175 digitale@stanford.edu Margarita Gallardo Tel 650-723-7897 mjgallardo@stanford.edu Stanford Medicine integrates research, medical education and health care at its three institutions - Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford Health Care (formerly Stanford Hospital & Clinics), and Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford. For more information, please visit the Office of Communication & Public Affairs site at http://mednews.stanford.edu. Related News September 8, 2015 Tutoring relieves math anxiety, changes fear circuits in children Individualized math lessons improved kids’ arithmetic performance and made them feel more comfortable with the subject. August 18, 2015 Brain scans better forecast math learning in kids than do skill tests, study finds Topics Neuroscience Pediatrics All Topics Stanford Medicine Magazine 2021 ISSUE 2 The most mysterious organ Unlocking the secrets of the brain COVID-19 Updates Stanford Medicine is closely monitoring the outbreak of novel coronavirus (COVID-19). A dedicated page provides the latest information and developments related to the pandemic. COVID-19 Updates News Center News Center Office of Communications For Journalists For Faculty & Staff School Policies Contacts News Sources Scope Blog Stanford Medicine Magazine Stanford Health Care Newsroom Stanford Children's Health Newsroom Stanford School of Medicine About Contact Maps & Directions Jobs Basic Science Departments Clinical Science Departments Academic Programs Vision Find People Visit Stanford Search Clinical Trials Give a Gift ©2022 Stanford Medicine Privacy Policy Terms of Use See us on Facebook See us on Twitter Stanford University Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford University Healthcare Alliance