COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to Main Content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving Home Offices Administrative Offices University of Miami Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine A Alumni + Open – Close The mission of the Medical Alumni Association is to establish and enhance a mutually beneficial and enduring relationship between the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine and its faculty, alumni and students. C Career Advising + Open – Close The Department of Medical Education and the Office of Student Affairs remain committed to enhancing the professional development of our medical students by providing each student with the knowledge and resources necessary to make well-informed career choices. Career Advising + Open – Close The Department of Medical Education and the Office of Student Affairs remain committed to enhancing the professional development of our medical students by providing each student with the knowledge and resources necessary to make well-informed career choices. Clinical Research + Open – Close Our team of research support professionals facilitate the clinical research process, from initiation through conclusion. The result? Enabling scientific discovery to expedite the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of disease and to enhance the quality of healthcare delivery. Clinical Research Operations & Regulatory Support (CRORS) + Open – Close CRORS is part of the Executive Dean for Research office (EDR) within the Miller School of Medicine at the University of Miami. We provide regulatory support for the conduct of research in respect to FDA, Office for Human Research Protections and state regulations, International Conference of Harmonization-GCP guidelines and local requirements, as well as for investigational new drug (IND) applications and investigational device exemptions (IDE). Continuing Medical Education + Open – Close The University of Miami Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education to provide continuing medical education for physicians. D Dean's Office + Open – Close Welcome to the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine – an innovative institution that empowers our students and trainees to transform lives and inspires them to serve our global community. Disability Services + Open – Close The Office of Disability Services (ODS) provides academic accommodations and support to ensure that students with disabilities are able to access and participate in the opportunities available at the University of Miami. Disability Services + Open – Close The Office of Disability Services (ODS) provides academic accommodations and support to ensure that students with disabilities are able to access and participate in the opportunities available at the University of Miami. Diversity, Inclusion and Community Engagement + Open – Close The Miller School is committed to fostering diversity. Diversity enriches the medical environment by building mutual respect and teamwork to prepare students, faculty members, and staff for citizenship in an increasingly complex society. E Eastern-Atlantic Student Research Forum (ESRF) + Open – Close The Eastern-Atlantic Student Research Forum (ESRF) is a four-day international symposium held at the University of Miami Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine (UMMSM) in Miami, Florida. Executive Dean for Research (Office) + Open – Close The Office of the Executive Dean for Research members are proud to assist the investigators at the Miller School of Medicine. We have one common goal – we facilitate research. F Facilities and Support Services + Open – Close Facilities Operations and Planning (FOP) is chiefly responsible for sustained operation and continued maintenance of all University of Miami Health District campus buildings, grounds, utility services and other related functions in support of the mission of the University of Miami Health System (UHealth) and Miller School of Medicine (MSOM). Furthermore, as a division, Facilities Operations and Planning (FOP) oversees holistic campus planning, regulatory compliance, capital construction, space allocation, alongside real estate asset management. Faculty Affairs + Open – Close The Office of Faculty Affairs and Professional Development is here to serve you. Our Mission is to support you as a member of the Miller School faculty—to achieve your career goals, guide you through the promotions process, and assure that you feel welcomed and valued as a unique and valued faculty member. Faculty Council + Open – Close Welcome to the Miller School of Medicine Faculty Council website. It functions as the executive agency of the school pursuant to the University of Miami Faculty Manual with regard to the academic planning, educational and research policy, and the general welfare of the School. Faculty Senate + Open – Close The Faculty Senate is the vehicle by which the Faculty is authorized to share in planning and governance of the university. Through its committees and as a deliberative and legislative body, the Senate plays an important role in dealing with academic policies, proposals for developing new programs and degree approvals, compensation and the annual budgets, reviews of chairs and deans, and countless other matters of collegial concern and interest. G Graduate Medical Education Graduate Studies H Human Subject Research (HSRO) + Open – Close The Human Subject Research Office (HSRO) provides administrative support to UM’s Institutional Review Boards (IRBs). M Medical Development + Open – Close Join us in our mission to advance medical science, develop new treatments and cures, train the next generation of physician-scientists, and improve the health of millions of people in South Florida and across the country. O Office of the Anatomical Board + Open – Close The Willed Body Program at the South Florida Office of the Anatomical Board (SOFAB) is managed through the Medical Education Office at the University of Miami’s Miller School of Medicine. The program provides the resources for individuals to donate their body to the Anatomical Board for use in educating medical professionals throughout South Florida. Ombudsperson + Open – Close The Office of the Ombudsman at the Miller School of Medicine is a venue for addressing concerns, resolving conflicts, dealing with problems, and providing advice. This resource is available to faculty, residents, fellows, medical and graduate students. Ombudsperson + Open – Close The Office of the Ombudsman at the Miller School of Medicine is a venue for addressing concerns, resolving conflicts, dealing with problems, and providing advice. This resource is available to faculty, residents, fellows, medical and graduate students. R Regional Medical Campus + Open – Close Welcome to the Regional Medical Campus (RMC) of the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine (UMMSM). The RMC is proud of the strong relationship that exists between UMMSM and the Palm Beach County Health Department. Regional Medical Campus + Open – Close Welcome to the Regional Medical Campus (RMC) of the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine (UMMSM). The RMC is proud of the strong relationship that exists between UMMSM and the Palm Beach County Health Department. Registrar + Open – Close The Office of the Registrar provides a range of services including academic records, student status, registration, enrollment, scheduling clerkships and electives, transcripts, and degree verification. Registrar + Open – Close The Office of the Registrar provides a range of services including academic records, student status, registration, enrollment, scheduling clerkships and electives, transcripts, and degree verification. Research Development and Support + Open – Close RDS provides full Research Administrative Services to Medical School Departments upon agreement, working collaboratively with Departmental Staff, Faculty and ORA. S Student Affairs + Open – Close At the Miller School, the Office of Student Affairs provides services from the time students enter school, throughout their tenure here until their graduation, and beyond as alumni. We strive to create an environment where students will develop leadership skills, embrace diversity, develop a strong sense of professionalism, and provide excellent clinical care and service to the community. Student Affairs + Open – Close At the Miller School, the Office of Student Affairs provides services from the time students enter school, throughout their tenure here until their graduation, and beyond as alumni. We strive to create an environment where students will develop leadership skills, embrace diversity, develop a strong sense of professionalism, and provide excellent clinical care and service to the community. Student Financial Assistance + Open – Close The University of Miami Miller School of Medicine provides not only financial aid in the form of scholarships and loans for medical students who need financial assistance to pay for medical school, but a wide range of educational debt management services to help students not only borrow responsibly but repay responsibly as well after they graduate and move into their residency programs. Student Financial Assistance + Open – Close The University of Miami Miller School of Medicine provides not only financial aid in the form of scholarships and loans for medical students who need financial assistance to pay for medical school, but a wide range of educational debt management services to help students not only borrow responsibly but repay responsibly as well after they graduate and move into their residency programs. Student Services + Open – Close Welcome to the Office of Student Services. Our team is here to assist medical students with a wide array of services. We hope that you will find the information helpful and utilize the resources available to help you maintain and improve your personal well-being. Student Services + Open – Close Welcome to the Office of Student Services. Our team is here to assist medical students with a wide array of services. We hope that you will find the information helpful and utilize the resources available to help you maintain and improve your personal well-being. Student Services + Open – Close Welcome to the Office of Student Services. Our team is here to assist medical students with a wide array of services. We hope that you will find the information helpful and utilize the resources available to help you maintain and improve your personal well-being. V Vice Provost of Research (OVPR) + Open – Close Facilitating scholarly activity, scientific discovery, and the responsible conduct of research, the Office of the Vice Provost for Research at the University of Miami provides an integrated network of administrative support and educational opportunities. facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved