COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to Main Content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving Home Centers Centers & Institutes University of Miami Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine Centers A ALS Center + Open – Close The ALS Center at the University of Miami provides the highest level of care and multispecialty support for patients and families living with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS) from the time of diagnosis to the end stages of the disease, while conducting advanced research into the cause and cure of ALS. C Center for Family Studies + Open – Close The Center for Family Studies is dedicated to improving the quality of life for families. It is considered one of the nation’s flagship programs for the prevention and treatment of minority adolescent behavior problems. Research has focused on conduct disorder, delinquency, substance use, unsafe sexual behavior and other disruptive behaviors. Center for Genetic Epidemiology & Statistical Genetics Center for Genome Technology Center for Genomic Education Center for Molecular Genetics Center for Patient Safety + Open – Close Demonstrating its commitment to delivering the safest patient care, both the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine and Jackson Memorial Hospital provide essential financial support for the work of the University of Miami – Jackson Memorial Hospital Center for Patient Safety. To meet the obligations of its stakeholders, the Center provides ongoing training to medical students, nurses, and residents to ensure that healthcare practitioners at this academic medical center are exposed to best practices and armed with patient safe skills. Center for Therapeutic Innovation + Open – Close At CTI, we’re dedicated to bringing forward innovative treatments for various diseases – including neurodegenerative conditions like Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s, addiction and other psychiatric illnesses, rare genetic disorders, and cancer. Center for Treatment Research on Adolescent Drug Abuse (CTRADA) + Open – Close Founded in 1991, The University of Miami Center for Treatment Research on Adolescent Drug Abuse (CTRADA) became the first National Institute on Drug Abuse funded clinical research center focusing on adolescent drug abuse treatment. The mission of CTRADA is to create a scientific climate of discovery and rigor that will facilitate the expansion of knowledge in adolescent substance abuse treatment through basic and applied studies. The fundamental orientation of CTRADA’s investigators is the development and refinement of family-oriented treatments for drug abusing adolescents. Children's Heart Center + Open – Close Ranked by US News & World Report as among the best cardiology programs in the country, the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine Children’s Heart Center (CHC), located at Holtz Children’s Hospital, is an internationally respected center for the comprehensive care of children and adults with congenital and acquired heart disease that follows thousands of patients from South Florida and beyond. As faculty members of the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, our specialists are at the forefront of ground- breaking medical research. Comprehensive Drug Research Center + Open – Close The Comprehensive Drug Research Center (CDRC) is a comprehensive interdisciplinary research center, which has been named a Center of Excellence by the University of Miami. D Don Soffer Clinical Research Center + Open – Close The Don Soffer Clinical Research Center (formerly known as the Clinical Research Building) is home to more than 300,000 square feet of clinical research space, specializing in patient safety, pediatrics and clinical pharmacology. The Wellness Center on the 9th floor of the building offers the Miami community access to a fitness area with over 100 pieces of cardio and strength equipment and over 80 classes a week, including yoga and kickboxing. F Functional Outcomes Research Evaluation + Open – Close A unique combination of the Physical Therapy and Music Engineering and Technology departments. The two programs have since collaborated to conduct research which will improve the lives of amputees, athletes, and those recovering from injuries. K KiDZ Neuroscience Center + Open – Close The KiDZ Neuroscience Center is dedicated to reducing the number of children and adolescents that sustain brain and spinal cord injuries. M Mailman Center for Child Development + Open – Close The Mailman Center for Child Development is an integral part of the Miller School of Medicine’s Department of Pediatrics. The Center offers extensive research facilities for education and contains everything needed to fulfill its mission of research, training, and services to children with special needs and their families. Miami Area Research Education and Clinical Center (GRECC) + Open – Close The Center supports a wide array of educational research, especially on the role of e-learning and educational technology in undergraduate, graduate, and continuing education for healthcare professionals and the lay public. Miami Center for AIDS Research + Open – Close Miami CFAR is the first NIH-funded AIDS research center in Florida, a state with the highest number of diagnosed HIV infections and second in estimated AIDS diagnoses of children greater than 13 years of age living with a diagnosis of HIV or AIDS. Miami Center for Orthopaedic Research and Education Miami Itch Center Miami Project to Cure Paralysis + Open – Close The Miami Project to Cure Paralysis, a Center of Excellence at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, is considered the premier investigative research program conducting cutting edge discovery, translational, and clinical investigations targeting spinal cord and brain injuries. Michael S Gordon Center for Simulation and Innovation in Medical Education + Open – Close A designated Center of Excellence of the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine. It was established more than 45 years ago for the application of advanced technology to medical education for medical students, physicians, physician assistants, nurses, paramedic/firefighters and instructors. Minimally Invasive Surgical Training and Education Center + Open – Close The Minimally Invasive Surgical Training & Education Center (MISTE) is a state-of -the-art education and training facility located on the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine campus. The Center was developed with the support of the DeWitt Daughtry Family Department of Surgery and by the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine as well as unrestricted educational grants from corporate partners. O Osher Center for Integrative Medicine + Open – Close The Osher Center for Integrative Medicine is dedicated to creating healthy solutions for the mind and body. The center offers a full range of integrative and complementary therapies. P Peggy and Harold Katz Family Drug Discovery Center + Open – Close The generosity of the Peggy and Harold Katz Family has helped establish The Peggy and Harold Katz Family Drug Discovery Center, which has supported many junior investigators and has greatly advanced research projects in the Division of Nephrology. In addition, the Center fosters collaborations across Departments in the Miller School of Medicine. Every day our faculty contribute to groundbreaking research hoping to improve the lives of patients with kidney disease. S Schiff Center for Liver Diseases + Open – Close At the Schiff Center for Liver Diseases, we are dedicated to providing our patients with compassionate care while pursuing the most challenging problems in hepatology. Through our research in basic science, academic inquiry, and clinical trials, we hope to benefit the health of our patients and improve the state of liver diseases in society at large. Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center + Open – Close Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, part of the University of Miami Health System, is the only NCI-designated cancer center in South Florida. It serves one of the most ethnically, racially, and socio-economically diverse patient populations in the country. As the area’s only academic-based cancer center, Sylvester’s experts are world-renowned for advancements in cancer research and care. T Translational Sleep and Circadian Sciences + Open – Close The vision of the Center for Translational Sleep and Circadian Sciences (TSCS) Center is to serve as a collaborative learning laboratory and a university-wide resource to stimulate, support, and evaluate high-priority research in sleep and circadian sciences with a special focus on low-income and minoritized communities. U U Innovation – Wallace H. Coulter Center for Translational Research + Open – Close We work with investigators as a team to help them carry the project from a translational stage to a tangible product that impacts public health. UHealth Fertility Center + Open – Close With over two decades of combined experience in this complex field, our specialists are pioneers in treating a broad range of disorders that affect fertility in both women and men. UM/JMH Burn Center + Open – Close The University of Miami/Jackson Memorial Burn Center is one of the leading burn treatment facilities in the nation and the only burn center south of Tampa verified by the American Burn Association. W William Lehman Injury Research Center + Open – Close The William Lehman Injury Research Center, an internationally recognized research facility located at the Ryder Trauma Center at University of Miami/Jackson Memorial Medical Center, was established to improve the treatment, prevention, and rehabilitation of traumatic injuries resulting from blunt trauma. Institutes B Bascom Palmer Eye Institute + Open – Close Bascom Palmer Eye Institute serves as the Department of Ophthalmology for the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine in Miami, Florida. Our mission is to enhance the quality of life by improving sight, preventing blindness, and advancing ophthalmic knowledge through compassionate patient care and innovative research. Batchelor Children's Research Institute + Open – Close Recognizing this, the University embarked on the construction of the Batchelor Children’s Research Institute, which was formally dedicated May 2001. Initiated with a $10 million gift from the Batchelor Foundation, and one of only a handful of children’s research centers in the nation, this Center provides 147,000 sq. ft. of high-tech and basic laboratory and clinical space for physician/scientists in the Department of Pediatrics. Braman Family Breast Cancer Institute + Open – Close Breast cancer can be as individual as you. That’s why at the Braman Family Breast Cancer Institute at Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center, we offer personalized breast cancer diagnosis, treatment, and care — all from the brightest minds, using the most targeted treatments. C Clinical and Translational Science Institute + Open – Close The Miami CTSI educates, trains, connects, and supports research teams by building the distinct science of clinical translational research, fostering collaboration, and managing the resources needed to sustain success in these area D Desai Sethi Urology Institute (Dept. of Urology) + Open – Close Much remains to be learned about many urologic disorders. It is only through research that a new treatment may be deemed to be safe and effective. We believe that the diverse research that we perform at the University of Miami Desai Sethi Urology Institute (University of Miami Department of Urology), gives our patients the opportunity to be treated with the most contemporary, cutting -edge treatments available anywhere! Diabetes Research Institute + Open – Close At the Diabetes Research Institute and Foundation, our mission is clear – we want to cure diabetes now. How serious are we about fulfilling that goal? Perhaps one of our longtime board members put it best: “We want to turn off the lights.” Dr. John T. Macdonald Foundation Biomedical Nanotechnology Institute + Open – Close Aimed at providing the community with the infrastructure, resources, and unique expertise needed for the design and fabrication of materials and devices at the micro- and nanoscale. E Ear Institute + Open – Close The UHealth Ear Institute is one of the most acknowledged and recognized clinical and surgical institutes with services in otology, neuro-otology, audiology, vestibular disorders, tinnitus, and auditory implants. Our pediatric component consists of our Children’s Hearing Program (CHP) and the Kids Hear Now (KHN) Cochlear Implant Family Resource Center. H HIV/AIDS and Emerging Infectious Diseases Institute (HEIDI) + Open – Close The HIV/AIDS Institute at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine was established in 2015 to coordinate and integrate all HIV/AIDS research, clinical, outreach and philanthropic activities at the Medical School. I Institute for Bioethics and Health Policy + Open – Close The University of Miami Ethics Programs, the precursor to the Institute for Bioethics and Health Policy, was established in 1991 when, from the outset, it partnered with what has become the School of Business Administration's Business Ethics Program. The two comprised the University of Miami Ethics Programs. Institute for Data Science and Computing + Open – Close The Center for Computational Science offers courses, workshops, and mentorship to students throughout the University who are interested in using advanced computing to examine data and solve problems. CCS encourages interdisciplinary research and facilitates discovery by providing a wide range of processors and system architectures, as well as expertise in nine focus areas. Institute for Neural Engineering (INEM) + Open – Close We are an interdisciplinary research institute with a mission to catalyze translational neuroscience research at the University of Miami and transform our understanding of brain, its functions and pathology to improve human health. Interdisciplinary Stem Cell Institute + Open – Close Welcome to the Interdisciplinary Stem Cell Institute (ISCI) at the Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine at the University of Miami, one of the nation’s leading institutes in translating findings in the laboratory to the clinical setting. International Medicine Institute J John P. Hussman Institute for Human Genomics (HIHG) + Open – Close The HIHG has nearly 30 faculty members with academic appointments from the Departments of Human Genetics (DHG), Pediatrics, Medicine, Neurology and Pathology, and dozens of associate members from numerous schools, departments and institutes. M Miami Transplant Institute + Open – Close Jackson Health System and UHealth – the University of Miami Health System have built the Miami Transplant Institute into an internationally revered team of doctors, nurses, and other healthcare professionals. U UHealth Sports Medicine Institute + Open – Close Our patients benefit from a comprehensive, multidisciplinary approach to the evaluation and treatment of their injuries or other medical conditions that affect their ability to exercise, participate in sports, or maintain an active lifestyle. Learn more about our offerings to help you recover your game. facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved