COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to Main Content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving Home Miami Life in Miami One of the world's most popular paradise vacation spots. As new students, residents, and fellows transition to life in Miami, they will discover that this large city and the surrounding areas offer an array of options for living and commuting that are suitable for every need. Here you will find that the Miller School provides its students with all of the resources they will need to make this exciting transition a smooth and enjoyable experience! Moving to Miami Transportation & Parking Food & Restaurants Campus Eats Campus Highlights Diversity & Inclusion Arts & Entertainment Shopping & Services Athletics The Sand While the University of Miami is a leading research institution where we all are focused on academic research, it still remains one of the best places to live in the US. Born and raised as well as transplants alike call it home. We love our city and our beaches — some of the most beautiful beaches in the states. Explore South Beach The Culture Beyond the glamor and nightlife, Miami is an art and music lover's paradise, a history lover's home base, and arguably the best place for cafecito outside of Cuba. Discover all of her secret treasures. Check out these suggestions to visit The Lifestyle It takes more than physical exercise to maintain good health. Balance is the key to leading a healthy lifestyle. Wellness is the dynamic process of becoming aware of, taking responsibility for, and making choices that directly contribute to one’s well being and that of the common good. It is the integration of body, mind, and spirit and the ongoing development of one’s own meaning in life. Visit Wellness Center The Food Find the true flavor of Miami at your new favorite farm-to-table restaurant or authentic Latin American cuisine locale. View Popular Restaurants The Ecosystem Beautiful sunsets and city skyscapes are great. But under the sea and out in the Everglades, there are plenty of opportunities to commune with nature. Explore Nature in Miami The Gems Beyond the glamor and nightlife, Miami offers incredible cultural sites, historical landmarks, and unique opportunities so you can absorb the true flavor of South Florida. Check out these suggestions to visit (Not those. We’re talking about the good ones.) The Hurricanes The Miami Hurricanes are part of the Coastal Division of the Atlantic Coast Conference and is home to 17 varsity sports. The University of Miami’s Department of Intercollegiate Athletics is dedicated to developing and supporting its more than 400 student-athletes in their efforts to achieve personal, academic, and athletic excellence. Visit Athletics Department facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved