COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Medical Programs Seeking Patient Care? Search Menu Med School Menu Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Close Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving Admissions Admissions Open Drawer Page 1 Admissions Medical Programs (M.D.) Graduate Programs Postdoctoral Programs Close Drawer Student Resources Student Resources Open Drawer Page 1 Student Resources Student Life Close Drawer Office of Medical Education Office of Medical Education Open Drawer Page 1 Office of Medical Education Curriculum Registrar Student Services Student Affairs Student Financial Services Close Drawer Contact Us Apply Now Seeking Patient Care? Home Medical Programs Medical Programs University of Miami Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine M.D. Program The Doctor of Medicine Program features the NextGenMD curriculum. M.D. Program M.D./MPH Program For medical students with an interest in population or community health M.D./MPH Program M.D./Ph.D. Program Dual degree program for medical researchers. M.D./Ph.D. Program M.D./MBA Program For those interested in integrating medicine with training in the world of business. M.D./MBA Program M.D./J.D. Program Designed for those interested in integrating the study of medicine with training in the legal field. M.D./J.D. Program M.D./M.S. in Genomic Medicine Allows the exploration of areas that intersect with medicine. M.D./M.S. in Genomic Medicine M.D./M.A. in International Administration (MAIA) M.D./MAIA Program M.D./Certificate in Security Management M.D./Certificate in Security Management M.D./M.A. Medical Humanities and Bioethics M.D./M.A. MHB Program Empower to Transform, Inspire to Serve NextGenMD An overarching longitudinal theme throughout all four years of the curriculum is the acquisition and refinement of clinical skills through expert teaching and patient interactions. Six hospitals and more than 40 specialty clinics containing nearly 3,000 teaching beds are located on the medical campus and provide unparalleled opportunities for clinical training. View NextGenMD Curriculum Student Life in Miami, FL As new students prepare to transition to medical school in Miami, they will discover that this large city and the surrounding areas offer an array of options for living and commuting that are suitable for every need. Here you will find that the Miller School provides its students with all of the resources they will need to make this exciting transition a smooth and enjoyable experience! View Student Life Research The University of Miami Miller School of Medicine is a research powerhouse, achieving international recognition for breakthroughs and advanced knowledge in diabetes, cancer, eye care, HIV, immune therapies, spinal cord injury, and much more. Our Research Community Outreach Students and physicians at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine are dedicated to providing quality healthcare to the underserved populations in South Florida. Community Outreach Patient Care At South Florida's only university-based medical system, UHealth delivers leading-edge patient care by the region's best doctors, powered by the groundbreaking research from the students and faculty at the Miller School of Medicine Visit UHealth Visiting Students Match Day Results Technical Standards facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved