COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Diversity, Inclusion, and Community Engagement Seeking Patient Care? Search Menu Med School Menu Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Close Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving Office About Us Programs Get Involved Services and Resources Contact Us Giving Seeking Patient Care? Home Offices Diversity, Inclusion and Community Engagement Diversity, Inclusion, and Community Engagement The Miller School of Medicine is committed to fostering diversity. Diversity enriches the medical environment by building mutual respect and teamwork to prepare students, faculty members and staff for citizenship in an increasingly complex society. It strengthens the environment by providing opportunities for communication between people of varied backgrounds, promoting personal growth and a healthier community by encouraging critical thinking and challenging preconceptions. Furthermore, as a diverse community, the school is better prepared to face the challenges of the future, in advancing medical knowledge with research, and in dealing with the clinical needs of our society. Diversity Statement We believe in liberty and justice for all. We stand with our black students, faculty, staff, and every ally of the black community against systemic racism, racial injustice, senseless violence, and oppression. Task Force on Racial Justice The University of Miami Miller School of Medicine's Task Force on Racial Justice was created in 2020 in response to the political and racial climate that has permeated the country and our medical school. Visit Task Force Website Summer Programs Explore our pipeline programs designed for high school and university students who are interested in pursuing career in the medical field. View Our Summer Programs WIAM Learn more about how Women in Academic Medicine has supported our female faculty. Learn About WIAM Get Involved Find ways to get involved with diversity and inclusion initiatives on campus. Find ways to get involved ODICE Newsletter The ODICE Newsletter is a source of knowledge regarding the impact of diversity, equity, inclusion (DEI) at the UMMSM. The monthly publication provides a platform to showcase DEI programs and resources for the UMMSM community. The newsletter includes information on upcoming events, scholarships, trainings, and other related resources. View Newsletter Featured News View All Articles May 25th, 2022 Desai Sethi Urology Institute Makes Impressive Showing at 2022 AUA Annual Meeting Nearly 30 faculty and students from the Desai Sethi Urology Institute at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine were featured speakers at the 117th Annual Scientific Meeting of the American Urological Association (AUA), held May 13 to 16 in New Orleans. The Desai Sethi Urology Institute stood out not only for its participation during... Research Diversity Urology May 20th, 2022 National Asthma Study Points to Better Outcomes for Black and Latinx Patients Rheumatology and Immunology Published Studies Medicine Research Diversity May 19th, 2022 Dr. Joan St. Onge Completes Executive Leadership in Academic Medicine Program Medical Education Campus News Inside Miller Diversity Apr 20th, 2022 Sleep Apnea Subtypes Found in Hispanic/Latino Community Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine Neurology Diversity facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved