Latest information on COVID-19 Skip to Content Skip to Local Navigation Skip to Global Navigation Stanford Medicine MD Admissions Site Nav Menu MD Admissions Stanford Medicine Explore Stanford Medicine Health Care Find a doctor Adult-care doctor Pediatrician or pediatric specialist Obstetrician Clinics & Services Adult care Pediatric care Obstetrics Clinical trials Locations Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Emergency Department Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency Explore Health Care Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion Back Research Basic science departments Clinical science departments Institutes Research centers See full directory Research Resources Research administration Academic profiles Clinical trials Funding opportunities See all Professional Training Postdoctoral scholars Clinical research fellows Research News Stanford team stimulates neurons to induce particular perceptions in mice's minds Explore Research Learn how we are fueling innovation Back Education MD program PA Programs PhD programs Masters programs Continuing Medical Education Postdoctoral scholars Residencies & fellowships High School & Undergraduate Programs See all Education Resources Academic profiles School Administration Basic science departments Clinical science departments Alumni services Faculty resources Diversity programs Lane Library Student resources Education News Students from far and near begin medical studies at Stanford Explore Education Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders Back Give Support Stanford Medicine Support teaching, research, and patient care. Ways to give Why giving matters Make a gift online Support Children's Health Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health Ways to give How your gift helps Make an online gift Back About About us News Contacts Maps & directions Leadership Vision Diversity Global health Community engagement Events How you can help Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Back Site Search Submit Search Query Welcome to Stanford MD Admissions 2023 How to Apply Stanford Medicine supports and encourages applicants with a range of abilities and disabilities, including disabilities that are not immediately apparent. SCOPE Article Stanford Medicine fully supports Black Lives Matter Stanford Medicine Statement Transformational Gift to Stanford Medicine Stanford Medicine Article Stanford Medicine Supports Students with Disabilities and Chronic Illness The School of Medicine has an institutional commitment to provide equal educational opportunities for qualified students. Stanford Medicine supports and encourages applicants with a range of abilities and disabilities, including disabilities that are not immediately apparent. Meet our Medical Student: Sheun (Shay) A book describing how electrodes in the brain could restore lost senses for patients inspired Sheun (Shay) Aluko to pursue a career in bioengineering. An accomplished musician with a passion for computer programming, Sheun wants to work toward a future that uses technological advancements to better help people heal. At the Stanford University School of Medicine, Sheun is pursuing both a medical degree and a master's degree in bioinformatics. #WeAreStanfordMed Not yet able to treat patients, Stanford medical students help caregivers Unable to meet with patients and prevented from taking part in most clinical rotations, students at the Stanford School of Medicine have found ways to support physicians and nurses during the COVID-19 pandemic. Images from Black Lives Matter Rally Stanford Medicine students, faculty, staff, family members, and healthcare workers attended the BLM rally on June 5, 2020. BLM supporters kneeled in silence for eight minutes and 46 seconds, the length of time a white police officer knelt on George Floyd’s neck. Empowering Tomorrow's Physician Leaders With close ties to Stanford University and a world-class medical center, Stanford University School of Medicine sets the training ground for the next generation of biomedical leaders and pioneers. All of the resources of our campus - extraordinary faculty and peers, state-of-the-art facilities and a diverse campus life – will provide you limitless opportunities to interact with a community of scholars who will support your educational endeavors and make you feel at home. Learn about our curriculum A New Era in Medical Education The School of Medicine is at the forefront of a major transformation in medical education. Known as the “flipped-classroom” model, this new approach moves traditional lecture content to online video, thereby freeing classroom time for interactive learning among peers and faculty. Undergraduate & Youth Opportunities The School of Medicine sponsors a number of programs to introduce undergraduate and high school students from underrepresented backgrounds to careers in medicine and basic science research. For general inquiries regarding MD admissions: (650) 723-6861. You may also contact us at our e-mail at: E-mail: mdadmissions@stanford.edu Knight-Hennessy Scholars Knight-Hennessy Scholars cultivates and supports a highly-engaged, multidisciplinary and multicultural community of graduate students from across Stanford University, and delivers a diverse collection of educational experiences, preparing graduates to address complex challenges facing the world. Each year, Knight-Hennessy Scholars selects up to 100 students who are newly enrolling in a graduate degree program in any of Stanford’s seven schools. Knight-Hennessy Scholars participate in an experiential leadership development program and receive funding for up to three years of graduate study at Stanford. Candidates of any country may apply. Candidates must submit two applications to be considered; one to Knight-Hennessy Scholars by early October and one to the graduate degree program by its deadline. Visit kh.stanford.edu to learn more. The Knight-Hennessy Scholars application to join the 2022 cohort closes on October 6, 2021 at 1:00pm PDT. Dual-Degree Opportunities Stanford offers a range of opportunities to pursue multiple advanced degrees, both within the medical school and at schools across the university. MD/PhD MD/MPH See all Stanford Med School Unplugged Check out the SMS Unplugged blog series to learn about current students and their real-life experiences at Stanford. Read SMS Unplugged MD Admissions How to Apply Eligibility and Recommendations MD Admissions Timeline Admissions Policies FAQ Financial Aid Curriculum Clinical Training Student Support Services Interdisciplinary Research MD Admissions Stanford Medicine News Events Careers Contact Health Care Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Stanford School of Medicine About Contact Maps & Directions Jobs Basic Science Departments Clinical Science Departments Academic Programs Vision Find People Visit Stanford Search Clinical Trials Give a Gift ©2022 Stanford Medicine Privacy Policy Terms of Use See us on Facebook See us on Twitter Stanford University Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford University Healthcare Alliance