Latest information on COVID-19 Skip to Content Skip to Local Navigation Skip to Global Navigation Stanford Medicine Site Nav Menu Stanford Medicine Explore Stanford Medicine Health Care Find a doctor Adult-care doctor Pediatrician or pediatric specialist Obstetrician Clinics & Services Adult care Pediatric care Obstetrics Clinical trials Locations Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Emergency Department Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency Explore Health Care Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion Back Research Basic science departments Clinical science departments Institutes Research centers See full directory Research Resources Research administration Academic profiles Clinical trials Funding opportunities See all Professional Training Postdoctoral scholars Clinical research fellows Research News Stanford team stimulates neurons to induce particular perceptions in mice's minds Explore Research Learn how we are fueling innovation Back Education MD program PA Programs PhD programs Masters programs Continuing Medical Education Postdoctoral scholars Residencies & fellowships High School & Undergraduate Programs See all Education Resources Academic profiles School Administration Basic science departments Clinical science departments Alumni services Faculty resources Diversity programs Lane Library Student resources Education News Students from far and near begin medical studies at Stanford Explore Education Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders Back Give Support Stanford Medicine Support teaching, research, and patient care. Ways to give Why giving matters Make a gift online Support Children's Health Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health Ways to give How your gift helps Make an online gift Back About About us News Contacts Maps & directions Leadership Vision Diversity Global health Community engagement Events How you can help Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Back Site Search Submit Search Query Stanford Medicine Education Dual Degree Program Dual-Degree Programs Stanford supports a wide range of opportunities to pursue more than one advanced degree, both within the School of Medicine and throughout other schools across the university. share MD/PhD The Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP) enables a select group of incoming medical students to concurrently pursue a PhD in a scientific field of interest. Students are accepted to the program through the MD admissions process and arrive at Stanford already on track to obtain both degrees. Non-MSTP students who wish to add a doctoral program after starting the MD program are encouraged to work directly with their department of interest to discuss joining its program. PhD/MSM The master's of science in medicine program gives PhD candidates in-depth exposure to clinical medicine that will help them develop the expertise to pursue translational research. Students selected to interview with any of the PhD programs offered at Stanford University can apply for admission to this program on a competitive basis. MD/MPH The Master of Public Health (MPH) is a professional degree that prepares students to be leaders in the area of public health. The area of study emphasizes population-based approaches to solving complex health issues. Students from all Stanford scholarly concentrations may pursue a degree in public health in partnership with an external institution. MD/MS degrees Bioengineering: The master's degree program applies engineering principles to medical problems and biological systems that encourage the development of new technologies and therapies. Biomedical informatics: The master’s degree program enables trainees to solve challenging problems in biology and medicine through the application of computer science, statistics and other quantitative disciplines to today's growing volume of biomedical data. Community Health and Prevention Research: The master’s degree program prepares precision health-focused professionals to responsibly and effectively address preventable health challenges faced by diverse communities across the life course. Epidemiology: The master’s degree program offers instruction and research opportunities that address the distribution and determinants of diseases across different populations. Health services research: The master’s degree program focuses on investigations in statistics, outcomes research, cost-effectiveness and technology assessment. The program prepares students for research careers in health services or health policy analysis. MD/MBA Stanford's dual-degree MD/MBA program combines medical training and a business degree in a five-year curriculum, creating opportunities in health-care management and business administration. MD/JD A joint degree in law and medicine opens many career opportunities with law firms, medical-device makers, biotech companies, venture capital firms, government regulators and other institutions. MD/MPP Stanford University offers a joint degree in public policy and medicine. Departmental Dual Degrees Education The individually designed MA in education is designed solely for Stanford doctoral students enrolled outside the School of Education. Individuals who are not enrolled in a doctoral program are not eligible. E-IPER Stanford's Emmett Interdisciplinary Program in Environment and Resources allows students to integrate science with law and business to address critical environmental and sustainability issues. Public Policy Stanford University offers two master's degree programs in public policy. The master’s in public policy is a two-year professional degree, and is offered as a joint degree with medicine. The master’s of arts in public policy is a one-year non-professional degree. Degree Programs MD program PA program PhD programs Master's programs Dual-degree programs PA Program Undergraduate studies at Stanford Professional Training Postdoctoral scholars Residencies & fellowships Continuing Medical Education Doctor of Psychology Consortium Center for Innovation in Global Health Stanford Center for Health Education Executive Education Summer Programs Summer Health Careers Opportunities Program Stanford Medicine Clinical Summer Internship Stanford Summer Research Program Youth Programs Stanford Institutes of Medicine Summer Program Stanford Medical Youth Science Program Cardiovascular Surgery Internship See all summer and youth programs About the School of Medicine Stanford University School of Medicine consistently ranks among the top U.S. medical schools, and faculty members routinely secure the highest amount of research funding per investigator in the country. Academic Resources Academic calendar Career center Course catalog Diversity programs Events Lane Library Academic Profiles Search faculty, students, and staff by name or topic. Search Stanford Medicine profiles Stanford Medicine News Events Careers Contact Health Care Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Research Basic Science Departments Clinical Science Departments Centers & Programs Institutes Education A-Z Directory Academic Programs Faculty Development & Diversity School Contacts Find People Visit Stanford Search Clinical Trials Give a Gift ©2022 Stanford Medicine Privacy Policy Terms of Use See us on Facebook See us on Twitter Stanford University Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford University Healthcare Alliance