COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to Main Content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving Home Research Labs Research Laboratories A Abreu Lab + Open – Close The research focus of Dr. Abreu’s laboratory is inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD) and colon cancer. Dr. Abreu has a special interest in the intimate relationship between the intestinal mucosa of the human host and its associated intestinal microbiota. B Beurel Lab + Open – Close Our research uses a three-pronged approach to understand how the immune system modulates stress responses and susceptibility to depression. C Chaudhari Lab + Open – Close The Chaudhari lab studies cellular physiology of the taste system in the peripheral detectors, the taste buds, and in the sensory neurons that innervate them. We use a variety of tools – from single-cell RNA sequencing, to confocal microscopy, to in vivo Ca2+ imaging in anesthetized mice. D Daunert Lab + Open – Close Our group genetically engineers living cells and proteins for environmental detection, molecular sensing, molecular diagnostics, point-of-care tests, biomarker identification, and drug delivery. Additionally, the research of the group focuses on the development of targeted and responsive drug delivery systems. Davis Lab + Open – Close The Davis laboratory has extensive experience and expertise in the evaluation of wound healing agents using various in vitro and in vivo preclinical models. Deo Lab + Open – Close We are a bionanotechnology research lab in the Biochemistry & Molecular Biology Department of the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine located in Miami, Florida. We develop novel biotechnology tools employing luminescent proteins and inorganic probes. Dhar Lab + Open – Close Dr. Dhar’s team develop macromolecular technologies, which are engineered to nanoparticles and targeted to the mitochondria of cells and they have chemistry-based programs on combination therapy for various cancers. Domínguez-Bendala Lab + Open – Close The main lines of research in the Domínguez-Bendala Lab revolve around the development of regenerative strategies for type 1 diabetes, including stem cell differentiation into insulin-producing β-cells and islet regeneration. G Goldberg Lab + Open – Close The Goldberg Lab uses tools from epidemiology, biostatistics, health services research, and empirical bioethics to study and improve outcomes among patients with chronic liver disease and cirrhosis, patients pre- and post-liver transplantation, and the broader population of patients waitlisted for a solid organ transplant. J Jones/Weiss Lab + Open – Close Our research focuses on bio-behavioral interventions that promote HIV risk reduction and treatment adherence in sub-Saharan Africa, South America, India, and the U.S. We’re working to discover the various factors that influence optimal health outcomes in people living with HIV. L Lassance-Soares Lab + Open – Close Dr. Lassance-Soares’ Lab studies cellular and molecular mechanism underlying neovascularization and endothelial dysfunction, with a strong focus in translational research. Specifically, Dr. Lassance-Soares interest is to enhance angiogenesis and arteriogenesis in pre-clinical model of hindlimb ischemia. Lembix Lab + Open – Close We use different kinds of strategies to look for molecular targets to promote nerve regeneration. Kinases regulate most aspects of cell function. As they are very important in cancer, there are many drugs and compounds as well as cDNA and RNAi libraries that can be used to perturb the Kinome. Neuroscientists should exploit these resources. Lindau Lab + Open – Close The central project in our laboratory is currently the investigation of the molecular machine, which releases many neurotransmitters and hormones in the body. M Munson Lab + Open – Close The molecular and cellular biology of the bactericidal pore-forming protein Perforin-2 (MPEG1) is a major area of emphasis within the Munson laboratory. Concurrently we are using multidisciplinary approaches to discover and characterize bacterial effectors that subvert or inhibit the bactericidal activity of Perforin-2 with a particular emphasis on enteric and multidrug resistant pathogens. P Pastori Lab + Open – Close Dr. Pastori’s overall research interests focus on the development of translational molecular strategies for the advancement of type 1 diabetes treatments, including regenerative approaches for pancreatic islets and beta-cells. Paus Lab + Open – Close Dr Paus’ laboratory focuses on the biology and pathology of human hair follicles, covering a wide range of topics from hair growth control, pigmentation, neuroendocrinology, neurobiology and immunology of the hair follicle via the pathobiology of alopecia areata, lichen planopilaris, and frontal fibrosing alopecia to novel management strategies for chemotherapy-induced alopecia and hair graying. S Starke Lab + Open – Close The goal of the Starke laboratory is to study cerebrovascular diseases from a clinical, translational, therapeutic, and basic science prospective. Our laboratory is uniquely suited to investigate cerebrovascular disease using a multipronged approach consisting of cell culture, experimental aneurysm models, advanced imaging modalities and clinical studies. Stone Lab + Open – Close Translational genomics (Skinomics), skin fibrosis, chronic wound healing, precision medicine. T Toborek Lab + Open – Close The main research interest in my laboratory is focused on the vascular effects of HIV infection with the focus on the alterations of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Tuesta Lab + Open – Close The Tuesta Lab is interested in understanding the epigenetic mechanisms underpinning activation of microglia and how persistent activation of these cells by chemotherapeutic agents can drive cognitive and attentional deficits in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy. Z Zeier Lab + Open – Close Our research focuses on neurological disease and its underlying causes to develop promising new therapies. We create induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) — which allow us to study human neurons — to model neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative diseases using 2D neuronal cultures and 3D cerebral brain organoids. This enables us to investigate how specific mutations lead to these diseases. facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved