Latest information on COVID-19 Skip to Content Skip to Local Navigation Skip to Global Navigation Stanford Medicine News Center Site Nav Menu See us on facebook See us on twitter See us on youtube See us on linkedin See us on instagram Stanford Medicine Explore Stanford Medicine Health Care Find a doctor Adult-care doctor Pediatrician or pediatric specialist Obstetrician Clinics & Services Adult care Pediatric care Obstetrics Clinical trials Locations Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Emergency Department Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency Explore Health Care Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion Back Research Basic science departments Clinical science departments Institutes Research centers See full directory Research Resources Research administration Academic profiles Clinical trials Funding opportunities See all Professional Training Postdoctoral scholars Clinical research fellows Research News Stanford team stimulates neurons to induce particular perceptions in mice's minds Explore Research Learn how we are fueling innovation Back Education MD program PA Programs PhD programs Masters programs Continuing Medical Education Postdoctoral scholars Residencies & fellowships High School & Undergraduate Programs See all Education Resources Academic profiles School Administration Basic science departments Clinical science departments Alumni services Faculty resources Diversity programs Lane Library Student resources Education News Students from far and near begin medical studies at Stanford Explore Education Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders Back Give Support Stanford Medicine Support teaching, research, and patient care. Ways to give Why giving matters Make a gift online Support Children's Health Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health Ways to give How your gift helps Make an online gift Back About About us News Contacts Maps & directions Leadership Vision Diversity Global health Community engagement Events How you can help Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Back Site Search Submit Search Query Toggle Dropdown MenuMenu Scope Blog Stanford Medicine Magazine Of Note COVID-19 Updates Topics Topics Administration Aging Big Data Biochemistry Bioengineering Cancer Cardiovascular Health Chemical Biology Chronic Disease COVID-19 Developmental Biology Education Genetics Global Health Health Policy Hearing Imaging Immunology Infectious Disease Mental Health Neuroscience Nutrition Obituaries Pain Patient Care Pediatrics Precision Health Preventive Medicine Sleep Stem Cells Surgery Technology Transplantation Urology Women's Health Search Stanford Medicine News 2022 Refining law on the definition of death Story Stanford biomedical ethicists among panelists updating law on definition of death share Experts propose revising the legal and medical standard on declaring someone dead based on respiratory function and likelihood of consciousness rather than cessation of brain function. May 19, 2022 - By Patricia Hannon Medical experts at Stanford and elsewhere agree that a current law defining brain death are too vague and are not aligned with clinical practice. sudok1 In the 40 years since legislation was enacted to align the medical and legal definitions of death, the law has, for the most part, successfully guided every state in the country in navigating the question, said David Magnus, PhD, director of the Stanford Center for Biomedical Ethics. Still, like most laws, the Uniform Determination of Death Act has garnered its share of controversy and confusion, mostly over how to interpret its brain death criteria and its failure to outline accepted medical standards for clinicians to declare someone dead. In a paper published in March in Neurology, Magnus joined a group of law, neurology and biomedical ethics experts in recommending that the model law be updated to, in part, focus on the ability to regain consciousness and be more precise about how that’s evaluated. Magnus said that the act’s sparse and vague wording doesn’t provide enough guidance for reaching consensus on an issue that is too important to be left unsettled. “There’s been a growing concern in recent years that there’s a lack of fit between the statutory language of the law that most states have adopted and the details of clinical practice,” said Magnus, the Thomas A. Raffin Professor of Medicine. “There have also been a growing number of legal cases where that discrepancy comes into play.” Those concerns prompted the Uniform Law Commission — a nonprofit organization that provides states with nonpartisan legislation on issues where uniformity is essential — to assign a draft committee to recommend revisions to the law, which the commission will review this summer. The committee includes Magnus, Stanford postdoctoral clinical ethics fellow Adam Omelianchuk, PhD, and the other experts who wrote the March paper. David Magnus Magnus, whose research and commentary on medical ethics are widely published and cited, said the call for an update answers a longstanding desire among brain death experts with whom he regularly collaborates to find some consensus among people with disparate views on the issue. “Even though we’ve had a lot of philosophical disagreements about brain death, we’ve also had a lot of overlapping agreement about what — at a practical level — a new law ought to look like,” Magnus said. ‘All functions of the entire brain’ As written, the act says, “An individual who has sustained either irreversible cessation of circulatory and respiratory functions or irreversible cessation of all functions of the entire brain, including the brain stem, is dead. A determination of death must be made in accordance with accepted medical standards.” The clause that evokes the most consternation, Magnus said, is “all functions of the entire brain, including the brain stem.” In some people whom medical experts agree will never regain consciousness or be able to breathe on their own, the hypothalamus — a part of the brain that regulates functions like balancing our bodily fluids — continues to stimulate the pituitary gland to release hormones that control those functions. Neurologists agree that this lingering release of hormones isn’t a clinical sign of life and, therefore, shouldn’t prevent a death declaration, Omelianchuk said. But because that isn’t spelled out in current law, he said, there is “a kind of gray zone” about which clinicians, the public and the legal community have demanded clarity. In the paper, of which Magnus is the senior author, the group argued that the law should emphasize neuro-respiratory criteria in wording that declares a person dead if they suffer “brain injury leading to permanent loss of the capacity for consciousness, the ability to breathe spontaneously, and brainstem reflexes.” This change, they noted, would not only prioritize neurological and anatomical considerations for determining death — without homing in on “all functions of the brain” being lost — but would also codify the neuro-respiratory criteria that are commonly used in U.S. clinics and hospitals. “If you look at the actual examinations for determining brain death, clinicians really do two things. They are making sure the patient has lost the functions of the cerebral cortex — that is, consciousness has been lost,” Magnus said. “And they make sure the brain stem has lost functioning, including the ability to spontaneously breathe.” Omelianchuk, the paper’s lead author, emphasized the importance of amending the law to spell out “the functions that are being tested in the clinical exam that matter, that are critical.” “Those are the things we should be looking at, rather than some global concept of the functioning of the brain,” he said. “It gets into kind of what the brain is for.” Additional concerns at death Beyond clarifying the act’s language, Magnus said, the committee is also weighing other “potential areas of controversy that it would be nice have sorted out, which are currently left silent” in the law. Such areas include how the lack of clarity affects organ procurement, donation and transplantation programs; decisions about hospital protocol if a family objects to a death examination being performed on their loved one; or ventilator removal after a death declaration. What obligation do hospitals have to keep someone who has been declared dead on life support indefinitely? “These are all issues that remain contentious. They come up with greater and greater frequency at different hospitals, and they’re increasing in frequency in the courts,” Magnus said. “So it would be good, if it’s possible, for the Uniform Law Commission to try and put some of those issues to bed.” Patricia Hannon Patricia Hannon is the associate editor of Stanford Medicine magazine in the Office of Communications. Email her at phannon@stanford.edu. Stanford Medicine integrates research, medical education and health care at its three institutions - Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford Health Care (formerly Stanford Hospital & Clinics), and Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford. For more information, please visit the Office of Communication & Public Affairs site at http://mednews.stanford.edu. Related News December 13, 2019 Clarity, honesty matter most in critical care talks with patients High-stakes conversations with patients and families about critical issues call for doctors to consider how their words are interpreted, Stanford researchers and experts say. March 26, 2019 Stanford acquires archive of palliative care pioneer Elisabeth Kübler-Ross Topics Health Policy Neuroscience All Topics Stanford Medicine Magazine 2021 ISSUE 2 The most mysterious organ Unlocking the secrets of the brain COVID-19 Updates Stanford Medicine is closely monitoring the outbreak of novel coronavirus (COVID-19). A dedicated page provides the latest information and developments related to the pandemic. COVID-19 Updates News Center News Center Office of Communications For Journalists For Faculty & Staff School Policies Contacts News Sources Scope Blog Stanford Medicine Magazine Stanford Health Care Newsroom Stanford Children's Health Newsroom Stanford School of Medicine About Contact Maps & Directions Jobs Basic Science Departments Clinical Science Departments Academic Programs Vision Find People Visit Stanford Search Clinical Trials Give a Gift ©2022 Stanford Medicine Privacy Policy Terms of Use See us on Facebook See us on Twitter Stanford University Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford University Healthcare Alliance