Latest information on COVID-19 Skip to Content Skip to Local Navigation Skip to Global Navigation Stanford Medicine News Center Site Nav Menu See us on facebook See us on twitter See us on youtube See us on linkedin See us on instagram Stanford Medicine Explore Stanford Medicine Health Care Find a doctor Adult-care doctor Pediatrician or pediatric specialist Obstetrician Clinics & Services Adult care Pediatric care Obstetrics Clinical trials Locations Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Emergency Department Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency Explore Health Care Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion Back Research Basic science departments Clinical science departments Institutes Research centers See full directory Research Resources Research administration Academic profiles Clinical trials Funding opportunities See all Professional Training Postdoctoral scholars Clinical research fellows Research News Stanford team stimulates neurons to induce particular perceptions in mice's minds Explore Research Learn how we are fueling innovation Back Education MD program PA Programs PhD programs Masters programs Continuing Medical Education Postdoctoral scholars Residencies & fellowships High School & Undergraduate Programs See all Education Resources Academic profiles School Administration Basic science departments Clinical science departments Alumni services Faculty resources Diversity programs Lane Library Student resources Education News Students from far and near begin medical studies at Stanford Explore Education Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders Back Give Support Stanford Medicine Support teaching, research, and patient care. Ways to give Why giving matters Make a gift online Support Children's Health Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health Ways to give How your gift helps Make an online gift Back About About us News Contacts Maps & directions Leadership Vision Diversity Global health Community engagement Events How you can help Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Back Site Search Submit Search Query Toggle Dropdown MenuMenu Scope Blog Stanford Medicine Magazine Of Note COVID-19 Updates Topics Topics Administration Aging Big Data Biochemistry Bioengineering Cancer Cardiovascular Health Chemical Biology Chronic Disease COVID-19 Developmental Biology Education Genetics Global Health Health Policy Hearing Imaging Immunology Infectious Disease Mental Health Neuroscience Nutrition Obituaries Pain Patient Care Pediatrics Precision Health Preventive Medicine Sleep Stem Cells Surgery Technology Transplantation Urology Women's Health Search Stanford Medicine News 2020 02 How shootings harm those unscathed by bullets Story Panel discusses how shootings affect those unscathed by bullets share A panel of faculty members at the School of Medicine said shootings can affect the mental health of people close to the violence. February 7, 2020 - By Mandy Erickson Paul Costello, far left, moderated a panel on gun violence featuring Kathy Staats, David Studdert and Maya Rossin-Slater. Mandy Erickson Shootings have a ripple effect: They harm not only those wounded or killed, but everyone adjacent to the violence, including friends and family members, according to a panel of Stanford Medicine experts. The panelists spoke Feb. 4 at an event titled “Responding to Gun Violence in America.” It was held as part of the Stanford Health Policy Forum series. Maya Rossin-Slater, PhD, assistant professor of health research and policy, said that for students, experiencing a shooting can affect “whether or not they go to college, how they fare throughout their lives.” In communities that experienced school shootings, prescriptions for antidepressants — used to treat depression as well as post-traumatic stress disorder — rose by 20% among youth during the two or three years after the events, Rossin-Slater said. “Poor mental health has lasting consequences,” she added. Gun violence and its consequent mental health problems affect a vast number of U.S. students, said Paul Costello, the panel’s moderator and a senior communications strategist at School of Medicine. Since the Columbine massacre in 1999, nearly a quarter of a million students have attended school when and where a shooting occurred, Costello said. Panelist Kathy Staats, MD, assistant professor of emergency medicine, was an undergraduate at Virginia Tech and a member of a student first-responder squad in 2007, when the university was the site of the then-deadliest mass shooting in the nation’s history. She said the shooting spree shocked the school community, and the memory still resonates with her every time she hears of another event. “On the flip side, when you see the worst in humanity, you sometimes see the best,” she said. “The community response was incredible.” “I chose my future career based on that decision,” she said, adding that many of her fellow first responders became firefighters, paramedics, nurses and physicians. Most gun deaths are suicides Mass shootings receive the lion’s share of media attention, yet David Studdert, PhD, professor of medicine and of law, said that two-thirds of gun deaths are suicides. Most of those who attempt suicide do not die, he said, but having a gun available at least triples the chance the attempt will be successful. Those who attempt suicide often don’t try again, he said. “Suicide is usually an impulsive act,” he explained, adding that the vast majority of people who attempt suicide once ultimately die from other causes. Staats said that she and her emergency medicine colleagues will ask patients who have attempted suicide if they have access to firearms because if they attempt suicide with a gun, “they will likely be successful.” Now that federal agencies have started funding research into gun violence, Studdert and Rossin-Slater said they are planning to study policies intended to reduce harm. Studdert intends to look into the effectiveness of red-flag laws, which allow courts to confiscate the guns of people who are determined to be a danger to themselves or others. Rossin-Slater is studying more than 50 schools in Texas that have experienced shootings, and what sort of interventions helped the students. “We want to know how we can best allocate resources,” she said. Mandy Erickson Mandy Erickson is a science writer in the Office of Communications. Email her at merickso@stanford.edu. Stanford Medicine integrates research, medical education and health care at its three institutions - Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford Health Care (formerly Stanford Hospital & Clinics), and Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford. For more information, please visit the Office of Communication & Public Affairs site at http://mednews.stanford.edu. Related News January 23, 2019 Short-term hospital readmissions for gun injuries cost $86 million a year A study from Stanford researchers has found that readmissions account for 9.5 percent of the $911 million spent annually on gun-injury hospitalizations. November 1, 2018 Lax state gun laws linked to more child, teen gun deaths Topics Health Policy All Topics Stanford Medicine Magazine 2021 ISSUE 2 The most mysterious organ Unlocking the secrets of the brain COVID-19 Updates Stanford Medicine is closely monitoring the outbreak of novel coronavirus (COVID-19). A dedicated page provides the latest information and developments related to the pandemic. COVID-19 Updates News Center News Center Office of Communications For Journalists For Faculty & Staff School Policies Contacts News Sources Scope Blog Stanford Medicine Magazine Stanford Health Care Newsroom Stanford Children's Health Newsroom Stanford School of Medicine About Contact Maps & Directions Jobs Basic Science Departments Clinical Science Departments Academic Programs Vision Find People Visit Stanford Search Clinical Trials Give a Gift ©2022 Stanford Medicine Privacy Policy Terms of Use See us on Facebook See us on Twitter Stanford University Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford University Healthcare Alliance