COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to Main Content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving Home Miami Campus Highlights Campus Highlights Menu Miami Miami Moving to Miami Transportation & Parking Campus Eats Diversity & Inclusion Campus Highlights Arts & Entertainment Shopping & Services Athletics A vibrant and diverse academic community, the University of Miami has rapidly progressed to become one of America’s top-tier research universities. The medical campus is located in the Health District (Civic Center) near downtown Miami, consists of 72 acres within the 153-acre University of Miami / Jackson Memorial Medical Center complex. The medical campus includes the medical school as well as hospitals that are part of the University of Miami Health System (UHealth): UHealth Tower Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Our affiliated hospitals on the medical campus include Jackson Memorial Hospital, Holtz Children’s Hospital, and the Miami VA Medical Center. More than a dozen UHealth outpatient clinics are located in Miami-Dade, Broward, Palm Beach, and Collier counties. Miller School of Medicine faculty conduct more than 1,600 research projects in basic science and clinical care. The 15-story Clinical Research Building opened in 2006, and the nine-story Biomedical Research Institute, opened in 2009. The 252,000-square foot Miami Life Science and Technology Park, designed to foster biotechnology and other leading-edge innovations, opened in 2011. Printable PDF Map The Alamo Miami’s City Hospital opened in June 25, 1918. What started as an 18-bed, three-story building grew into the internationally renowned Jackson Memorial Hospital named for Dr. James M. Jackson, the company doctor of Flagler’s Florida East Coast Railway. The Alamo, the original structure for City Hospital, was restored in 1979 and is now an information center and museum. It is listed in the National Register of Historic Places, the Alamo is the inspirational centerpiece for the 76-acre University of Miami / Jackson Memorial Medical Center. Bachelor Children’s Institute The University of Miami’s Miller School of Medicine Department of Pediatrics has grown into one of the larger academic departments in the country with impressive educational programs, extensive clinical care activities and major research efforts. The pediatrics department consistently ranks among the top nationally in National Institutes of Health (NIH) funding for medical research. The award of NIH grants is a key indicator of research quality and competitiveness. Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Ranked #1 in the US by US News & World Report Bascom Palmer Eye Institute is committed to the protection and preservation of the treasured gift of sight. Our faculty of internationally-respected physicians is skilled in every ophthalmic subspecialty and is board-certified with fellowship training. Bascom Palmer Eye Institute serves as the Department of Ophthalmology for the University of Miami Health System and the Miller School of Medicine. This year marks the 18th time that Bascom Palmer Eye Institute has been rated the #1 eye hospital in the country as published in U.S. News & World Report. Ophthalmology Times rated Bascom Palmer the best overall ophthalmology program in the nation with the best eye hospital and the best clinical and residency programs. Additionally, many of our doctors are listed in Best Doctors in America. Biomedical Research Building In 2009, the Biomedical Research Building opened its doors. The BRB is the permanent home for two internationally recognized research programs: The John P. Hussman Institute for Human Genomics and the Interdisciplinary Stem Cell Institute. Calder Medical Library The Calder Library advances informed decision making and knowledge transfer in support of the University of Miami’s Miller School of Medicine. The Miller School of Medicine seeks to improve the health of our community through the provision of evidence-based, client-centered health services, the discovery and dissemination of health findings, education, leadership and community service. Don Soffer Clinical Research Building The CRB is home to more than 300,000 square feet of clinical research space, specializing in patient safety, pediatrics and clinical pharmacology. With more than 1,300 ongoing projects funded by some $200 million in external grants and contracts to UM faculty, the Miller School ranks in the top third among U.S. medical schools in terms of research funding. Diabetes Research Institute The Diabetes Research Institute leads the world in cure-focused research. As the largest and most comprehensive research center dedicated to curing diabetes, the DRI is aggressively working to develop a biological cure by restoring natural insulin production and normalizing blood sugar levels without imposing other risks. Fox Building Clinical Research Services serves as a shared resource of Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center. Formed in 1982, CRS provides a wide range of services to support research activities specific to clinical trials of Sylvester member investigators. Gautier Building The facilities include 6,500 square feet of research laboratories on each floor, research offices, seminar rooms, and support spaces and utilities. The R. Bunn Gautier building houses the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology in 75,000 square feet and was completed in 1991. Holtz Children’s Hospital Holtz Children’s Hospital is one of the largest children’s hospitals in the southeast United States. Located at the University of Miami / Jackson Memorial Hospital, we are known worldwide for our team of pediatric specialists experienced in treating children with all types of needs — from routine care to life-saving procedures. We also train the most pediatric physicians of any medical center in the southeast United States. Jackson Memorial Hospital Jackson Health System is nationally ranked in three pediatric specialties and rated high performing in one adult specialty and three procedures and conditions, according to U.S. News & World Report. Life Science and Technology Park UMLSTP is located within the University of Miami’s Health District, the second largest health district in the U.S., with world-class research institutions and state of the art medical treatment and educational resources. Poised at the intersection of basic science, applied research and the global marketplace, this vibrant urban research park community provides an outstanding range of resources and robust infrastructure for the development of life sciences, technology and biotechnology advances among a broad array of enterprises, from emerging university start-ups to multinational powerhouses. Mailman Center for Childhood Development The Mailman Center for Child Development is an integral part of the Miller School’s Department of Pediatrics. The Center offers extensive research facilities for education and contains everything needed to fulfill its mission of research, training and services to children with special needs and their families. McKnight Vision Research Building In addition to the research and scientific activities, the modern eight-story McKnight building houses the Institute’s central administrative offices. A series of architectural remodeling projects begun in 2002 has turned the McKnight building into a state-of-the-art facility for modern wet and dry lab research. This period has also seen an upgrading and expansion of shared laboratory research core facilities. Papanicolau Cancer Research Building Named in honor of cancer research pioneer, Dr. George N. Papanicolaou, the “PAP” is a clinical research facility of Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center. Pope Life Center The Lois Pope LIFE Center is the mainstay of the Miller School’s nationally and internationally recognized Neuroscience Research Programs. The center is located in the Schoninger research quadrangle at the University of Miami / Jackson Memorial Medical Center. The state-of-the-art facility brings together all elements of the multi-pronged assault on paralysis and other neurologic disorders, including stroke, brain trauma, and neurodegenerative diseases. It houses the school’s prestigious Miami Project to Cure Paralysis. Professional Arts Center Houses the departments of neurology, urology, obstetrics and gynecology, and nephrology. Rosenstiel Medical Sciences Building RMSB is the original building of the Miller School of Medicine, which opened in 1952 — the oldest medical school in the State of Florida. It currently houses, all medical school administration, student facilities, classrooms, biomedical graduate Programs as well as the Departments of Cell Biology, Molecular & Cellular Pharmacology, Microbiology & Immunology, Physiology & Biophysics and Dermatology. Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center As a university-based cancer center, Sylvester physicians and scientists apply research breakthroughs from the laboratory to the patient’s bedside. Sylvester closely evaluates the effectiveness of new treatments, and shares clinical insights with laboratory investigators, leading to improvements that benefit patient care. This type of translational research is the cornerstone of our comprehensive cancer center, providing us the ability to accurately treat a wide range of cancers across 15 site diseases and from stage one to stage four. UHealth Tower The University of Miami changed the face of modern health care in South Florida when it purchased Cedars Medical Center in late 2007. The 560-bed facility was renamed UHealth Tower and became the region’s first university-owned, multi-specialty, acute care hospital and the flagship facility of UHealth – University of Miami Health System. Today, physicians on the faculty of the Miller School partner with community physicians to plan and provide care, investigate new treatments still in the clinical research phase, and utilize the most advanced technologies available. And that’s only the beginning. Veterans Affairs Hospital The Miami VA Healthcare System is an accredited comprehensive medical provider, providing general medical, surgical, inpatient and outpatient mental health services. The Miami VA Healthcare System includes an AIDS/HIV center, a prosthetic treatment center, spinal cord injury rehabilitative center, and geriatric research, education, and clinical center (GRECC). The Miami VA Healthcare System is recognized as a Center of Excellence in Spinal Cord Injury Research, Substance Abuse Treatment and is a recognized Chest Pain Center. facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved