COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Graduate Studies Seeking Patient Care? Search Menu Med School Menu Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Close Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving Office Graduate Studies Graduate Studies Open Drawer Page 1 Graduate Studies Doctoral Programs Master Programs Summer Programs Close Drawer Why UM? Student Resources Faculty Contact Us Seeking Patient Care? Home Graduate Studies Graduate Programs A part of the Graduate School, the Office of Graduate Studies facilitates our common goal of educating future leaders through research education. Set in a bustling international city and inviting subtropical climate, the Miller School provides world-class medical education through a wide variety of masters and doctoral programs. We invite you to explore our research and academic programs. Pause Play This video was produced with safety measures in place. Doctoral Programs We offer doctoral degrees in 15 distinct disciplines, ranging from epidemiology to neuroscience. View Doctoral Programs Master's Programs We offer master's degrees in nine disciplines from biomedical science to public health sciences. View Master Programs Summer Program Our summer research program immerses students from diverse backgrounds in hands-on, innovative biomedical research across multiple research disciplines. View Summer Programs M.S. in Medical Radiation Dosimetry New Program begins in Fall 2022 Learn More M.S. in Skin Biology & Dermatological Science Now available in both hybrid and online Learn More Join Us. Apply Now. Become a part of the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine family of leaders in education and research. Application Instructions Why Students Choose to Study at the University of Miami Miami is the gateway to Latin America. It has a mix of people and cultures that is unique to South Florida. Beyond science and research, learn why our students chose and love the University of Miami. Learn More Hear what our students like about the U Student Testimonials Student Life In addition to the benefits of studying at the University of Miami, our city has much to offer. If you are new or moving to Miami, we have a great resource of information to help you along the way. View Student Life $273 mil In Medical Research Funding 717 Principal Investigators 650 Graduate Students A Research Powerhouse The Miller School of Medicine is a research powerhouse, achieving international recognition for breakthroughs and advanced knowledge in diabetes, cancer, spinal cord injury, AIDS, marine science, and many other areas. Our centers of excellence are continually ranked among the nation’s best, including Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, The Miami Project to Cure Paralysis, and the Diabetes Research Institute. Our new institutes, such as Interdisciplinary Stem Cell Institute, Miami Institute for Human Genomics, and the Center for Computational Sciences will further enhance our research efforts and continue to enrich the quality of life for people around the world. News May 25th, 2022 Miller School Investigator’s Commentary in Nature Medicine Describes Eye-Opening Prenatal Genetic Testing Flaws May 25th, 2022 Desai Sethi Urology Institute Makes Impressive Showing at 2022 AUA Annual Meeting May 24th, 2022 Miller School Urologists Work Alongside UM Engineers to Pioneer Urologic Innovation facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved