Latest information on COVID-19 Skip to Content Skip to Local Navigation Skip to Global Navigation Stanford Medicine News Center Site Nav Menu See us on facebook See us on twitter See us on youtube See us on linkedin See us on instagram Stanford Medicine Explore Stanford Medicine Health Care Find a doctor Adult-care doctor Pediatrician or pediatric specialist Obstetrician Clinics & Services Adult care Pediatric care Obstetrics Clinical trials Locations Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Emergency Department Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency Explore Health Care Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion Back Research Basic science departments Clinical science departments Institutes Research centers See full directory Research Resources Research administration Academic profiles Clinical trials Funding opportunities See all Professional Training Postdoctoral scholars Clinical research fellows Research News Stanford team stimulates neurons to induce particular perceptions in mice's minds Explore Research Learn how we are fueling innovation Back Education MD program PA Programs PhD programs Masters programs Continuing Medical Education Postdoctoral scholars Residencies & fellowships High School & Undergraduate Programs See all Education Resources Academic profiles School Administration Basic science departments Clinical science departments Alumni services Faculty resources Diversity programs Lane Library Student resources Education News Students from far and near begin medical studies at Stanford Explore Education Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders Back Give Support Stanford Medicine Support teaching, research, and patient care. Ways to give Why giving matters Make a gift online Support Children's Health Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health Ways to give How your gift helps Make an online gift Back About About us News Contacts Maps & directions Leadership Vision Diversity Global health Community engagement Events How you can help Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Back Site Search Submit Search Query Toggle Dropdown MenuMenu Scope Blog Stanford Medicine Magazine Of Note COVID-19 Updates Topics Topics Administration Aging Big Data Biochemistry Bioengineering Cancer Cardiovascular Health Chemical Biology Chronic Disease COVID-19 Developmental Biology Education Genetics Global Health Health Policy Hearing Imaging Immunology Infectious Disease Mental Health Neuroscience Nutrition Obituaries Pain Patient Care Pediatrics Precision Health Preventive Medicine Sleep Stem Cells Surgery Technology Transplantation Urology Women's Health Search Stanford Medicine News 2021 06 Cost of gun injuries to minors Story Firearm injuries in children, teens costly for U.S. health care system, Stanford study finds share The average cost of initial hospitalization to treat pediatric gun injuries is about $13,000 per patient and has risen in recent decades, a Stanford Medicine study found. June 23, 2021 - By Erin Digitale Stephanie Chao Hospitalizations to treat pediatric gun injuries are expensive, and U.S. taxpayers and the poor are bearing the price, according to a new study from the Stanford University School of Medicine. The study, which published online June 23 in PLOS ONE, found that the average cost of an initial hospitalization for a pediatric firearm injury is around $13,000. A total of about $109 million is spent on such hospitalizations in the country each year. The figures do not capture the total costs of rehabilitating young gunshot victims, which can be much higher. Research into the financial, health and social costs of firearm injuries in the United States has focused mostly on adults, said the study’s senior author, Stephanie Chao, MD, assistant professor of surgery. However, nine of every 10 firearm injuries to children worldwide occur in the United States, according to a study published in 2015 in The American Journal of Medicine. “We really need a better picture of the overall toll of firearms on children,” Chao said. Although gun deaths from school shootings and other mass-casualty incidents are widely publicized, most pediatric gun injuries occur less publicly, often when children accidentally discharge firearms they locate and handle without their parents’ knowledge. “This takes a horrible toll on families and children’s lives, and there is a financial toll,” Chao said. Drawing attention to kids’ firearm accidents For their study, the researchers used data on pediatric gun injuries from the Kids’ Inpatient Database, which is compiled once every three years using discharge data from more than 4,100 U.S. hospitals. The researchers examined medical records from children released after their initial hospitalization for firearm injuries in 2003, 2006, 2009 and 2012. They found that 19,015 children age 18 and under were hospitalized for firearm injuries during the four years included in the study, with an average of 4,753 admissions each year. About three-quarters of the injuries occurred in patients 16 to 18 years old. Injuries were caused by assault in 63% of cases and by unintentional discharge of a firearm in 26% of cases. In 3% of cases, injuries were self-inflicted. Most of the remainder were of undetermined cause. Chao noted that the vast majority of children and teens who attempt suicide using firearms do not survive to be admitted to a hospital, so the study could not capture the impact of most self-inflicted wounds on families and communities. If we could prevent these injuries, the money could be spent in so many other places. The cost of hospitalizations to treat firearm injuries in children rose with time, even after adjusting for inflation, the study found. More than half of that cost, over $62 million per year, was paid by Medicaid, and a substantial additional portion of the cost was borne by uninsured patients, who accounted for 11% of all hospitalizations. The results highlight how gun safety could be improved to protect children, Chao said, noting that the proportion of unintentional firearm injuries was especially high in young children. Among children age 5 and younger, 60% of gun injuries were unintentional, while among those aged 6-10, the figure was 56%. “Accidental discharge of guns is something that is really actionable for lawmakers and pediatricians,” Chao said, noting that doctors can educate families about the need to store guns locked and unloaded, and legislators can pass laws to restrict children’s access to firearms. States with laws that restrict children’s gun access have fewer pediatric gun injuries and fatalities, Chao’s prior research has shown. Not only would keeping children safe reduce families’ heartache, it would also free up funding to support children’s health in other ways, Chao said. “A lot of children are being harmed, and that’s costly to our health care system,” she said. “If we could prevent these injuries, the money could be spent in so many other places.” The study’s lead author is Jordan Taylor, MD, a resident in surgery. Other co-authors are research assistant Sriraman Madhavan; Ryan Han, undergraduate student in computer science; Julia Chandler, MD, resident in surgery; and Lakshika Tennakoon, research data scientist. Erin Digitale Erin Digitale is the pediatrics science writer in the Office of Communications. Email her at digitale@stanford.edu. Media Contacts Erin Digitale Tel 650-724-9175 digitale@stanford.edu Stanford Medicine integrates research, medical education and health care at its three institutions - Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford Health Care (formerly Stanford Hospital & Clinics), and Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford. For more information, please visit the Office of Communication & Public Affairs site at http://mednews.stanford.edu. Related News June 3, 2020 Handgun ownership associated with much higher suicide risk Men who own handguns are eight times more likely to die of gun suicides than men who don’t own handguns, and women who own handguns are 35 times more likely than women who don’t. Topics Health Policy Pediatrics Preventive Medicine All Topics Stanford Medicine Magazine 2021 ISSUE 2 The most mysterious organ Unlocking the secrets of the brain COVID-19 Updates Stanford Medicine is closely monitoring the outbreak of novel coronavirus (COVID-19). A dedicated page provides the latest information and developments related to the pandemic. COVID-19 Updates News Center News Center Office of Communications For Journalists For Faculty & Staff School Policies Contacts News Sources Scope Blog Stanford Medicine Magazine Stanford Health Care Newsroom Stanford Children's Health Newsroom Stanford School of Medicine About Contact Maps & Directions Jobs Basic Science Departments Clinical Science Departments Academic Programs Vision Find People Visit Stanford Search Clinical Trials Give a Gift ©2022 Stanford Medicine Privacy Policy Terms of Use See us on Facebook See us on Twitter Stanford University Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford University Healthcare Alliance