Latest information on COVID-19 Skip to Content Skip to Local Navigation Skip to Global Navigation Stanford Medicine News Center Site Nav Menu See us on facebook See us on twitter See us on youtube See us on linkedin See us on instagram Stanford Medicine Explore Stanford Medicine Health Care Find a doctor Adult-care doctor Pediatrician or pediatric specialist Obstetrician Clinics & Services Adult care Pediatric care Obstetrics Clinical trials Locations Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Emergency Department Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency Explore Health Care Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion Back Research Basic science departments Clinical science departments Institutes Research centers See full directory Research Resources Research administration Academic profiles Clinical trials Funding opportunities See all Professional Training Postdoctoral scholars Clinical research fellows Research News Stanford team stimulates neurons to induce particular perceptions in mice's minds Explore Research Learn how we are fueling innovation Back Education MD program PA Programs PhD programs Masters programs Continuing Medical Education Postdoctoral scholars Residencies & fellowships High School & Undergraduate Programs See all Education Resources Academic profiles School Administration Basic science departments Clinical science departments Alumni services Faculty resources Diversity programs Lane Library Student resources Education News Students from far and near begin medical studies at Stanford Explore Education Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders Back Give Support Stanford Medicine Support teaching, research, and patient care. Ways to give Why giving matters Make a gift online Support Children's Health Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health Ways to give How your gift helps Make an online gift Back About About us News Contacts Maps & directions Leadership Vision Diversity Global health Community engagement Events How you can help Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Back Site Search Submit Search Query Toggle Dropdown MenuMenu Scope Blog Stanford Medicine Magazine Of Note COVID-19 Updates Topics Topics Administration Aging Big Data Biochemistry Bioengineering Cancer Cardiovascular Health Chemical Biology Chronic Disease COVID-19 Developmental Biology Education Genetics Global Health Health Policy Hearing Imaging Immunology Infectious Disease Mental Health Neuroscience Nutrition Obituaries Pain Patient Care Pediatrics Precision Health Preventive Medicine Sleep Stem Cells Surgery Technology Transplantation Urology Women's Health Search Stanford Medicine News 2019 08 For new students, white coats and stethoscopes Story Students from far and near begin medical studies at Stanford share New Stanford medical and physician assistant students put on white coats and received new stethoscopes at ceremonies marking the start of their programs. August 29, 2019 - By Mandy Erickson New medical students read the Stanford Affirmation at the white coat ceremony on Aug. 23. The affirmation includes the following sentences: "I pledge to devote my life to the service of humanity. The care of my patients will be my first consideration." Steve Fisch Wearing a red dress, a basket cap, abalone shell earrings and a mink pelt, Melissa Eidman strode up to the microphone during the School of Medicine’s white coat ceremony and announced her home town: Weitchpec, California. Weitchpec, in the state’s far northwestern corner, is the home of her ancestors, the Yurok Tribe. Her accessories are traditional garb; the pelt is a family heirloom. Eidman grew up in Sacramento, but once she’s a fully trained physician, she plans to return to the Yurok reservation to care for its residents. “I’m excited and honored to be wearing it,” Eidman said of the white coat, which had her name embroidered on it. The coat is new, but for Eidman, Stanford isn’t: She transferred as an undergraduate after spending years at a community college. “It’s been quite a long haul,” she said. Ninety medical students donned white coats at the Aug. 23 ceremony outside the Li Ka Shing Center for Learning and Knowledge. In a separate ceremony earlier that afternoon, 28 students in the physician assistant program also put on white coats. The events marked the beginning of the students’ respective programs. All students also received stethoscopes, gifts from the Stanford Medicine Alumni Association. “By all accounts, you are among the most accomplished people on the planet,” Dean Lloyd Minor, MD, told the new medical students at their ceremony. “When you receive your coat and stethoscope, you’re showing your willingness to run toward crises and not away from them.” Dean Lloyd Minor addresses the first-year medical students at the ceremony, which took place on the lawn next to the Li Ka Shing Center for Learning and Knowledge. Steve Fisch The medical students hail from New York; Houston; and nearby Redwood City, California, as well as from Kazakhstan, Venezuela and England, among other places. The class of 2023 is among the most diverse in Stanford’s history, with 26% who identify as an ethnicity under-represented in medicine, 34% who were born outside the United States and 8% who are LGBTQ. Many students said they would need to get used to wearing the white coat. “It feels really surreal,” said Ibtihal Elfaki, a medical student from Sudan and Chicago. “It’s something I’ve aspired to since high school.” “The idea of being a medical student has been abstract for a long time,” said Samson Peter of San Mateo, California. “But this coat makes it all very tangible.” They also felt the burden of responsibility that the white coat carries — “an overwhelming sense of accountability,” said Alexander Noonan, a student in the physician assistant program. Speakers at both ceremonies acknowledged the students’ competitiveness, but cautioned that they must set that tendency aside if they are to learn and grow during their time at Stanford. “Now is the time to work together and help each other out,” Zachary Stone, a third-year physician assistant student, said at the physician assistant ceremony. Kimberly DeBruler, a third-year medical student, warned the new MD students that they would fail along the way. She also encouraged them to reach out to students who appear to be struggling. “Check on each other. Text that person who didn’t make it to the party, or who stopped coming to class,” she said. Compassion and science Faculty speakers reminded the students that caring for patients calls for compassion as well as scientific knowledge. Abraham Verghese, MD, professor of medicine and a bestselling author, told the physician assistant students that he learned the difference between healing and curing from his own physician assistant when he was practicing in El Paso, Texas. When the physician assistant took him to the home of a young man dying of AIDS, he asked, “What are we doing here?” She responded, “We’re not here to do anything. We’re just here to be with the patient.” New students in the physician assistant program participated in a white coat ceremony earlier that day. Steve Fisch He realized that their visit signaled to the patient that his caregivers would not abandon him. In the days before there was an effective treatment for AIDS, he said, “We could heal when we could not cure.” Arturo Molina, MD, president of the Stanford Medicine Alumni Association, described the relationship between physician and patient as “sacred.” He told the medical students that they would need to practice empathy. “You will see patients who have had their dreams shattered by illness,” he said. “They will remind you not to take anything for granted.” At the receptions after the ceremonies, as the new students started feeling more comfortable in their new garb, they said they were looking forward to the years ahead. “I’m eager to get back to being with patients,” said PA student Alex Topmiller, who worked at a dermatology clinic before arriving at Stanford. “I can’t wait for the clinics.” Mandy Erickson Mandy Erickson is a science writer in the Office of Communications. Email her at merickso@stanford.edu. Stanford Medicine integrates research, medical education and health care at its three institutions - Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford Health Care (formerly Stanford Hospital & Clinics), and Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford. For more information, please visit the Office of Communication & Public Affairs site at http://mednews.stanford.edu. Topics Education All Topics Stanford Medicine Magazine 2021 ISSUE 2 The most mysterious organ Unlocking the secrets of the brain COVID-19 Updates Stanford Medicine is closely monitoring the outbreak of novel coronavirus (COVID-19). A dedicated page provides the latest information and developments related to the pandemic. COVID-19 Updates News Center News Center Office of Communications For Journalists For Faculty & Staff School Policies Contacts News Sources Scope Blog Stanford Medicine Magazine Stanford Health Care Newsroom Stanford Children's Health Newsroom Stanford School of Medicine About Contact Maps & Directions Jobs Basic Science Departments Clinical Science Departments Academic Programs Vision Find People Visit Stanford Search Clinical Trials Give a Gift ©2022 Stanford Medicine Privacy Policy Terms of Use See us on Facebook See us on Twitter Stanford University Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford University Healthcare Alliance