COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Medical Development Seeking Patient Care? Search Menu Med School Menu Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Close Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving Office Ways to Give Why Give? Find Your Cause UCare Contact Us Seeking Patient Care? Home Medical Development Celebrate a Nurse Celebrate Oncology Nursing Month and National Nurses Week Explore Campaign Ways to Give Show Your Support Why Give? Make an Impact Find Your Cause Join Our Mission Support A Medical Scholar Accomplished, passionate, and inspired individuals seeking the best medical education cannot reach their full potential without you. Help the Miller School of Medicine train the next generation of transformative leaders in health care. Our scholars need your support, and the future of medicine needs your philanthropic leadership. Make the dreams of our medical scholars a reality. Support a Scholar Inside Our Labs: Where Innovation Transforms Lives Enjoy our series on scientific innovations taking place in our laboratories at UHealth and the Miller School of Medicine. You will meet our physician-scientists, who are using state-of-the-art technologies to advance life-saving treatments. Watch Video About Our Labs In The Know Candid and informative virtual town hall series featuring UHealth and Miller School of Medicine leaders and experts on a range of important health topics Watch Video Series Inside Miller News ALL PHILANTROPY NEWS May 23rd, 2022 A Dream, Finally Realized The dedication of Christine E. Lynn Rehabilitation Center for The Miami Project to Cure Paralysis at UHealth/Jackson Memorial on March 25 celebrated the realization of a long-standing dream. It marked the culmination of 40 years of planning, philanthropy, and a transformative partnership between The Miami Project to Cure Paralysis at the University of Miami Miller... Neurology Physical Therapy Orthopedics Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Philanthropy May 20th, 2022 Dr. Mario Stevenson Is Awarded the Raymond F. Schinazi and Family Endowed Chair in Biomedicine Medical Education HIV/Aids Infectious Diseases Medicine Research Philanthropy May 11th, 2022 Responding to Urgent Plea for Help, UHealth and Sylvester Teams Send Shipments of Lifesaving Medical Supplies to Grenada Global Institute COVID-19 Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Philanthropy Apr 27th, 2022 Tow Foundation Commits $2 Million to Multiple Myeloma Research at Sylvester Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Philanthropy Contact Us Our comunity is made up of people, like you, who care deeply about the continued success of the Miller School. We want to hear from you. Contact Us Show UCare The potential for medical breakthroughs means different things to different people. Use your UCare fundraising page to tell YOUR story. Create your page facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved