COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Medical Alumni Association Seeking Patient Care? Search Menu Med School Menu Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Close Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving Office Dean's Message Awards Alumni Weekend Contact Us Contact Us Open Drawer Page 1 Contact Us Share Your Story Connect & Share Close Drawer Giving Seeking Patient Care? Home Alumni Medical Alumni Association Welcome Medical Alumni Please update your contact information below so that we can keep you abreast of events, reunions, and other Miller School of Medicine news. Connect & Share This is the time of the year when we celebrate those we love and give thanks for all we have. I am grateful for the Miller School family of students, faculty, staff, and alumni who make heroic contributions every day and continue to serve people from all walks of life with grace, courage, and immeasurable skill. READ THE FULL MESSAGE FROM THE DEAN Henri R. Ford, M.D., M.H.A. Dean and Chief Academic Officer Schedule a Tour Medical alumni can tour the medical campus by contacting alumni@med.miami.edu or 305-243-9473. alumni@med.miami.edu Give Back! Visit our giving page to see all the ways you can support your alma mater! Giving Stay Connected Like our Facebook page to be updated on the school and important alumni events. Stay Connected University of Miami Medicine Magazine A family of Miller School alumni has established endowed scholarship funds to alleviate the burden that medical school tuition can create, particularly for minority students. Read this full story and more in the latest edition of University of Miami Medicine magazine. Read Now News May 12th, 2022 M.D. Class of 2022 Ready to Meet Challenges with Resilience Apr 27th, 2022 Miller School Trauma Surgeon Deploys to War-Torn Ukraine Apr 26th, 2022 Miller School Establishes Scholarship to Honor the Legacy of Beloved Dean Events Alumni Weekend 2022 Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Medical Alumni Weekend 2021 has been rescheduled. Instead, we will celebrate the reunion classes of 2021 and 2022 during Medical Alumni Weekend 2022 on March 4-5, 2022 in Miami, Florida. Visit Webpage Med ’Cane Alumni Newsletters News from the Medical Alumni Association View Newsletters facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved