COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to Main Content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving Home About Us About Us University of Miami Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine Menu About Us About Us Leadership Annual Report Culture Change History Offices Community Outreach Medicine Magazine View Digital Version Who We Are The University of Miami Miller School of Medicine is an innovative institution that empowers our students and trainees to transform lives, and inspires them to serve our global community. Research is the backbone of our school. Through it, we are able to advance health care through leading-edge discoveries and offer the highest quality education to tomorrow’s physician-scientists. We know institutional culture affects faculty vitality, trust and inclusion, work-life balance, values alignment and equality. Under the leadership of Dean Henri Ford, we have created an environment where our faculty feel energized by their work and supported to develop personally and professionally. Welcome Message from Dean Ford Welcome to the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine – an innovative institution that empowers our students and trainees to transform lives and inspires them to serve our global community. From the design of the first cardiopulmonary simulator (“Harvey”) for medical education, to our seminal contributions in the field of cellular therapeutics, the Miller School remains at the forefront of advances in clinical care, medical education and translational medicine. Bascom Palmer Eye Institute has been ranked the #1 ophthalmology hospital in the nation for 15 consecutive years, while Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center is the only university-based comprehensive cancer center and only NCI-designated cancer center in the region. The Miller School is committed to fostering and enhancing a supportive, inclusive and engaging culture for our faculty, students, and staff. We recruit and retain learners, educators, clinicians and scientists who will lead scientific and social change. Our education, research, and clinical programs are designed to support the next generation of physicians and interdisciplinary team-based scientists. The Miller School creates an optimal environment for learners, educators, clinicians, and scientists to maximize their potential and become successful in their respective disciplines. I have never been more optimistic about the future of healthcare and the future of the Miller School of Medicine. By building on our strong foundations in research, education and clinical care, we will continue the transformation of medicine and its positive impact on the health of humanity locally, nationally, and internationally. Please take a moment to read through our website and learn about the Miller School of Medicine. We are always happy to answer any questions you might have about our distinguished medical school, as well as the several outstanding Ph.D., masters, and combined degree programs we have in place. VISIT OFFICE OF THE DEAN Our Organization Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine The Miller School, founded in 1952, was Florida’s first medical school. The Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine now includes 21 clinical departments, 6 basic science departments, 45 centers and institutes, and 23 administrative groups, with more than 1,400 faculty members. South Florida’s cultural diversity makes it a medical training ground of unmatched opportunity. The Miller School continues to move up in the national rankings of research medical schools, climbing to No. 44 in the 2017 edition of Best Graduate Schools published by U.S. News & World Report — a gain of 12 positions in the past 10 years. The Miller School also rose to No. 40 of 147 schools ranked by the Blue Ridge Institute for Medical Research based on research grants received from the National Institutes of Health during 2019. UHealth University of Miami Health System Visit UHealth Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center South Florida's only NCI-Designated Cancer Center Visit Cancer Center Website Bascom Palmer Eye Institute #1 Eye Hospital in the U.S. Visit Bascom Palmer We Are Part of Our Community The residents of Miami-Dade County face significant health and socioeconomic disparities. Nearly 20% of all individuals in the county live below the federal poverty level (e.g., annual income of $25,750 for a family of four), as compared to 14% in Florida overall. The diversity of our area is thought to represent the future demographics of the United States in 2050. This makes it critical that the students, faculty, and leaders at the Miller School engage with our community members, encouraging them to be proactive stewards of their health. They do this through outreach programs that deliver vital basic care and screenings directly to underserved populations. facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved