Latest information on COVID-19 Skip to Content Skip to Local Navigation Skip to Global Navigation Stanford Medicine News Center Site Nav Menu See us on facebook See us on twitter See us on youtube See us on linkedin See us on instagram Stanford Medicine Explore Stanford Medicine Health Care Find a doctor Adult-care doctor Pediatrician or pediatric specialist Obstetrician Clinics & Services Adult care Pediatric care Obstetrics Clinical trials Locations Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Emergency Department Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency Explore Health Care Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion Back Research Basic science departments Clinical science departments Institutes Research centers See full directory Research Resources Research administration Academic profiles Clinical trials Funding opportunities See all Professional Training Postdoctoral scholars Clinical research fellows Research News Stanford team stimulates neurons to induce particular perceptions in mice's minds Explore Research Learn how we are fueling innovation Back Education MD program PA Programs PhD programs Masters programs Continuing Medical Education Postdoctoral scholars Residencies & fellowships High School & Undergraduate Programs See all Education Resources Academic profiles School Administration Basic science departments Clinical science departments Alumni services Faculty resources Diversity programs Lane Library Student resources Education News Students from far and near begin medical studies at Stanford Explore Education Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders Back Give Support Stanford Medicine Support teaching, research, and patient care. Ways to give Why giving matters Make a gift online Support Children's Health Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health Ways to give How your gift helps Make an online gift Back About About us News Contacts Maps & directions Leadership Vision Diversity Global health Community engagement Events How you can help Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Back Site Search Submit Search Query Toggle Dropdown MenuMenu Scope Blog Stanford Medicine Magazine Of Note COVID-19 Updates Topics Topics Administration Aging Big Data Biochemistry Bioengineering Cancer Cardiovascular Health Chemical Biology Chronic Disease COVID-19 Developmental Biology Education Genetics Global Health Health Policy Hearing Imaging Immunology Infectious Disease Mental Health Neuroscience Nutrition Obituaries Pain Patient Care Pediatrics Precision Health Preventive Medicine Sleep Stem Cells Surgery Technology Transplantation Urology Women's Health Search Stanford Medicine News 2020 06 Handguns linked to increased suicide risk Story Handgun ownership associated with much higher suicide risk share Men who own handguns are eight times more likely to die of gun suicides than men who don’t own handguns, and women who own handguns are 35 times more likely than women who don’t. June 3, 2020 - By Beth Duff-Brown A new study found that men who owned handguns were eight times more likely to die of self-inflicted gunshot wounds, and women who owned handguns were more than 35 times more likely to kill themselves with a gun. Val Lawless/Shutterstock.com Owning a handgun is associated with a dramatically elevated risk of suicide, according to new Stanford research that followed 26 million California residents over a 12-year period. The higher suicide risk was driven by higher rates of suicide by firearm, the study found. Men who owned handguns were eight times more likely than men who didn’t to die of self-inflicted gunshot wounds. Women who owned handguns were more than 35 times more likely than women who didn't to kill themselves with a gun. While prior studies have found higher rates of suicide among people who live in homes with a gun, these studies have been relatively small in scale and the risk estimates have varied. The Stanford study is the largest to date, and it’s the first to track risks from the day of an owner’s first handgun acquisition. “Our findings confirm what virtually every study that has investigated this question over the last 30 years has concluded: Ready access to a gun is a major risk factor for suicide,” said the study’s lead author, David Studdert, LLB, ScD, MPH, professor of medicine at Stanford Health Policy and of law at Stanford Law School. The study, which was published June 4 in The New England Journal of Medicine, analyzed data on handgun acquisitions and deaths in a cohort of 26.3 million adult residents of California who had not previously owned handguns. The researchers followed the cohort from 2004 through 2016, and compared death rates among those who did and didn’t acquire handguns, with a particular focus on suicides by firearm versus other methods. More than 1.4 million cohort members died during the study period. Nearly 18,000 of them died by suicide, of which 6,691 were suicides by firearms. ‘Often impulsive acts’ “Suicide attempts are often impulsive acts, driven by transient life crises,” the authors write. “Most attempts are not fatal, and most people who attempt suicide do not go on to die in a future suicide. Whether a suicide attempt is fatal depends heavily on the lethality of the method used — and firearms are extremely lethal. These facts focus attention on firearm access as a risk factor for suicide especially in the United States, which has a higher prevalence of civilian-owned firearms than any other country and one of the highest rates of suicide by firearm.” David Studdert There were 24,432 gun suicides in the United States in 2018, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Three-quarters of them involved handguns. The Stanford study took advantage of the unusually comprehensive body of information on firearm sales in California. All lawful gun purchases and transfers must be transacted through a licensed firearms dealer, who then relays the information to the state’s Department of Justice, where it is archived. The research team obtained records of all firearm acquisitions dating back to 1985, then linked them to death records. The researchers found that people who owned handguns had rates of suicide that were nearly four times higher than people living in the same neighborhood who did not own handguns. The elevated risk was driven by higher rates of suicide by firearm. Handgun owners did not have higher rates of suicide by other methods or higher rates of death generally. The researchers said the very high risk of suicide for female handgun owners, relative to female nonowners, was particularly noteworthy. It has long been known that women attempt suicide more frequently than men but have fewer completed suicides. The standard explanation is that the methods women tend to use are less lethal than those men tend to use. However, the study showed that this is not true for female gun owners. “Women in our cohort who owned guns and died by suicide usually used a gun,” said Yifan Zhang, PhD, a biostatistician at Stanford Health Policy and co-author of the study. “Handgun ownership may pose an especially high risk of suicide for women because of the pairing of their higher propensity to attempt suicide with access to and familiarity with an extremely lethal method.” Disentangling competing explanations One major challenge with studies examining the relationship between gun access and suicide risk has been determining whether people who purchase handguns already have plans in place to harm themselves, or whether the presence of a handgun creates new risks. The unique, longitudinal nature of the Stanford study helped to disentangle these competing explanations. “There appears to be some of both happening,” said senior author Matthew Miller, professor of health sciences and epidemiology at Northeastern University. “New handgun buyers had extremely high risks of dying by firearm suicide immediately after the purchase. However, more than half of all firearm suicides in this group occurred a year or more later. Consistent with prior work, our findings indicate that gun access poses a substantial and enduring risk.” Other Stanford co-authors of the study are research analyst Lea Prince, PhD, and research assistant Erin Holsinger, MD — both at Stanford Health Policy; and Jonathan Rodden, PhD, professor of political science. Researchers at Erasmus University, in the Netherlands, and the University of Melbourne, in Australia, also contributed to the work. The research was supported by the Fund for a Safer Future and the Joyce Foundation, as well as Stanford Law School and the Stanford University School of Medicine. Beth Duff-Brown Beth Duff-Brown is the communications manager for Stanford Health Policy. Media Contacts Beth Duff-Brown Tel 650-736-6064 bethduff@stanford.edu Margarita Gallardo Tel 650-723-7897 mjgallardo@stanford.edu Stanford Medicine integrates research, medical education and health care at its three institutions - Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford Health Care (formerly Stanford Hospital & Clinics), and Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford. For more information, please visit the Office of Communication & Public Affairs site at http://mednews.stanford.edu. Related News November 1, 2018 Lax state gun laws linked to more child, teen gun deaths States with strict gun laws have lower rates of gun deaths among children and teenagers, and laws to keep guns away from minors are linked with fewer gun suicides in this age group, a Stanford study found. June 28, 2017 Sleep disturbances predict increased risk for suicidal symptoms, study finds Topics Mental Health All Topics Stanford Medicine Magazine 2021 ISSUE 2 The most mysterious organ Unlocking the secrets of the brain COVID-19 Updates Stanford Medicine is closely monitoring the outbreak of novel coronavirus (COVID-19). A dedicated page provides the latest information and developments related to the pandemic. COVID-19 Updates News Center News Center Office of Communications For Journalists For Faculty & Staff School Policies Contacts News Sources Scope Blog Stanford Medicine Magazine Stanford Health Care Newsroom Stanford Children's Health Newsroom Stanford School of Medicine About Contact Maps & Directions Jobs Basic Science Departments Clinical Science Departments Academic Programs Vision Find People Visit Stanford Search Clinical Trials Give a Gift ©2022 Stanford Medicine Privacy Policy Terms of Use See us on Facebook See us on Twitter Stanford University Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford University Healthcare Alliance