COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to Main Content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving Home Research Basic Science Research Basic Science Research Improving our understanding through basic research Basic science research sounds simple. It is chiefly a curiosity-driven field, where researchers work to fill in gaps of scientific knowledge. But it is the bedrock to all understanding of the human body, advancements in scientific discovery, and innovations in medical technology and treatments. In basic science and clinical departments across the Miller School of Medicine, researchers are studying cell biology, immunology, biochemistry, pharmacology, microbiology, and genetics in all organisms, from bacteria to humans. Basic science research leads to scientific discovery, the process or product of successful scientific inquiry. It includes scientific activities from observation to laboratory experiments and data mining. Our discovery scientists work together to propel innovation and uncover the mysteries of biomedical science, which we later apply in a clinical setting. Here at the Miller School, we offer a dynamic learning environment, where scientists at all levels work together to address gaps in understanding across the spectrum of medical science specialties. We offer a variety of core and shared facilities, internal awards to facilitate externally funded grants, research education and training, career development, and grant writing assistance, among many other services to foster the success of our investigators. Basic Science Departments Biochemistry & Molecular BiologyCell BiologyMicrobiology and ImmunologyMolecular and Cellular PharmacologyPhysiology and BiophysicsPublic Health Sciences Research Development & Support RDS is a shared-services unit, which provides support on sponsored projects to assigned departments and faculty at the Miller School of Medicine. RDS is based in the Office of the Executive Dean for Research (EDR). Visit RDS Office Grant Writing Support A range of writing services is available to help Miller School of Medicine faculty researchers, post-doctoral fellows, and graduate students get more grants, publish more peer-reviewed articles and make compelling presentations. Grant Writing Support Graduate Programs Providing a learner-centered, humane, and contemporary curriculum that prepares our graduates to pursue successful careers in biomedical research. Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Supporting a dynamic postdoctoral community of more than 275 associates, scholars, and fellows who contribute to the transformational research being conducted at each of the three University of Miami campuses. Visit Postdoctoral Website A Research Plan for Pre-eminence Research is the lifeblood of our academic medical system, the foundation on which our clinical care stands. Our Plan for Research facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved