COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to Main Content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving Home Research Funding Opportunities Research Funding Opportunities Menu Funding Opportunities Funding Opportunities SPINPlus and Additional Search Tools Federal, State & Local Agencies Corporations & Foundations NIH, NSF, DOD Limited Submissions and Internal Award Programs DREAM Open DrawerClose Drawer Current Scholars and Mentors Application Information This site provides a wide variety of tools and resources to help the Miller School research community find the right funding source for research, creative, and other scholarly activities. Browse the left sidebar to access SPINPlus and other searchable databases of both federal and non-federal external funding opportunities. You can find links to external funding sources, for limited submission competitions and internal funding. Internal Awards Program Scientific Awards Committee (SAC) Opportunities + – Deadlines: The 10th day of each month by 11:59 PM (August – November; January – March) Pilot Study Grants – provide up to $25,000 in direct research costs to assist faculty in jump-starting new research areas, including new and distinct research areas where the applicant has no existing funding or publications, as well as new direction(s) for existing research programs in which the applicant has past experience but no current funding. Bridge Grants – provide up to $30,000 in direct research costs to assist faculty in maintaining their research program in the event of a funding lapse during the process of applying for additional extramural funding. Interdisciplinary Team Science (ITS) Pilot Program Grants – provide up to a maximum of $50,000 in direct research costs to provide resources to assist faculty members in developing new research projects with an emphasis on interdisciplinary science, according to the following criteria: 1) research projects should involve the synergistic collaboration of two or more investigators, ideally from different disciplines or areas of study; 2) research projects should represent new and distinct areas where the applicant research team has no current funding or publications; 3) new and/or expanded direction(s) for existing research programs, where such directions are made possible by collaboration. The ultimate goal for the ITS Pilot Program is to facilitate the creation of new project teams who can develop new interdisciplinary research programs and obtain extramural funding for a Team Science Proposal, Program Project and/or Center grants. A Letter of Intent (LOI) is required. Discovery Scientist Development (DiScide) Research Awards - provide up to $40,000 to promote discovery science research and the career development of junior basic and physician scientists in Miller School of Medicine. Applicants should be considered an early-stage investigator as defined by NIH – see the NIH Early-Stage Investigator Policies. Awards will be granted to researchers to launch a discovery science project that focuses on the fundamental mechanisms of health and disease. EDR Internal Administrative Committee (IAC) Opportunities + – Deadlines: The 10th day of each month by 11:59 PM (July – November; January – March) Equipment Grants provide up to $20,000 in direct research costs and are intended as an aid to replace or repair intensively used equipment that unexpectedly breaks down or to upgrade existing equipment. The PI and/or department is required to cost share 50% of the total equipment. These grants are not intended to cover routine or anticipated repair, maintenance, or service contracts. Dean’s NIH Bridge grants provide up to a maximum of $75,000 and provide support for Miller School faculty whose research program has a gap in an NIH award and/or competitive renewal that is within 10% of the agency payline. Eligible applications must be from an NIH R01 or P-type grant, but only the related research projects are eligible for P-type grants. Research Support Awards provide up to $25,000 in direct research costs per year for a 12-month period (may be extended to a maximum 24 month period if fully justified) and cover unanticipated shortfalls in research funding that impede the progress of a proposal submission or funded research. This award should be applied for only when no other internal award mechanism is appropriate. Grant Editing Support Program provides up to $1,500 for external consulting support. It is intended for investigators in the early development stage of a proposal or in the final stages of a proposal before the submission. For pertinent program details and where you can apply, visit the Internal Award Funding Programs and Limited Submission Competitions website. Grant Writing Support Opportunities + – The Miller School of Medicine offers several opportunities to assist and mentor faculty and junior faculty investigators through key stages of the grant writing process. Learn more about each opportunity below. Hanover Research Services: The Miller School of Medicine Office of the Executive Dean for Research, and the Miami Clinical and Translational Science Institute has partnered with Hanover Research, a grant development firm, to provide research support services for faculty team and individual grant proposals. More information: http://miamictsi.org/hanover, https://www.hanoverresearch.com/ To apply: https://miami.infoready4.com/ UM’s Writing Center: Writing services available to MSOM faculty researchers, post-docs and graduate students to get more grants, publish more peer-reviewed articles and make compelling presentations To schedule your appointment, call 305-243-5096 or email CTSIservices@med.miami.edu Grant writing Videos: Designed to provide practical, step-by-step advice on writing NIH R- or K-style grants (http://miamictsi.org/education/grant-writing) Introductory Writing Course: The Introduction to Writing for Clinical and Translational Science provides junior faculty and other interested trainees with no prior grant writing experience with useful basic knowledge, insights, and skills in the grant writing process to improve their chances for later funding and subsequent career success. (http://miamictsi.org/education/grant-writing) Questions? Please e-mail the Office of the Executive Dean for Research internal awards team facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved