COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to Main Content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving Home About Us Culture Change Culture Change University of Miami Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine Menu About Us About Us Leadership Annual Report Culture Change History Offices Community Outreach Under the leadership of Dean Henri Ford, the Miller School of Medicine has engaged in a culture change (C-Change) initiative to create an environment where faculty feel energized by their work and supported to develop personally and professionally. We know institutional culture affects faculty vitality, trust and inclusion, work-life balance, values alignment, and equality and the Miller School is committed to improving the experience for all members of our community. Goals Goal 1: Perform an assessment of the Miller School culture, using the validated C-Change Faculty Survey from Brandeis University. Goal 2: Communicate broadly, and through multiple venues, the results of the survey. Goal 3: Create large, diverse teams to take a deep dive into the data and develop a series of short-term, medium-term, and long-term priorities. Goal 4: Create smaller teams to support the initiative and drive its progress. Specifically, teams will develop tactics to address the multiple priorities and identify individuals to oversee the work. Accomplishments October 2018 – December 2018 Dean Ford engaged Brandeis University leadership to survey the Miller School faculty in October 2018 about their experiences at the medical school. Sixty-two percent of the faculty participated. January 2019 – April 2019 The Brandeis team analyzed the data and Dr. Linda Pololi presented the results in January 2019 in multiple venues to the Miller School faculty. The survey results identified five themes: mentoring gender equity research faculty diversity institutional factors We issued a request for volunteers and 150 faculty responded to participate on one or more of five C-Change Action Teams. The Action Teams developed 153 recommendations for culture improvement. May 2019 – August 2019 A Steering Committee consisting of the Dean and the leaders of the Action Teams sorted the 85 quick-win recommendations into four domains: institutional culture research and development compensation faculty affairs and professional development In August 2019, Dean Ford shared with the Faculty Council the organizational framework for prioritizing the recommendations and moving forward with addressing the quick-wins. A faculty leader oversees each domain to develop tactics for meeting the priorities and managing the process. September 2019 – December 2019 Dean Ford has kept the faculty-at-large updated as to progress through regular email communications, departmental meetings, Faculty Council meetings, and so forth. Steering Committee and Domain Teams The C-Change Steering Committee and four domain teams focus on the areas identified by the C-Change Action Teams as opportunities for improving the culture at the Miller School. C-Change Steering Committee Page 1 Team Members Henri Ford, M.D., Dean & Chief Academic Officer, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine Joan St. Onge, M.D., M.P.H., Senior Associate Dean for GME and Faculty Affairs & Professional Development Enrique Mesri, Ph.D., professor, Department of Microbiology & Immunology Elizabeth Greig, M.D., assistant professor of clinical medicine, Medical Director, UHealth/Fisher Island Michael Paidas, M.D., Chair, Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology Heather McCrea, M.D., Ph.D., assistant professor of clinical neurosurgery Maria Delgado Lelievre, M.D., assistant professor of clinical medicine Rose Van Zuilen, Ph.D., associate professor of professional practice, Department of Medical Education, acting associate director of the Educational Development Office Ana Palacio, M.D., M.P.H., professor of Population Health and Computational Medicine Erin Kobetz, Ph.D., M.P.H., Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship, professor, Department name. Lina Shehadeh, Ph.D., research professor, Department of Medicine Heidi Allespach, Ph.D., professor of clinical family medicine Marie Denise Gervais, M.D., Assistant Dean for Admissions Mecker Moller, associate professor of clinical surgery Latha Chandran, M.D., M.P.H, Executive Dean for Education and Policy, Department Chair and Professor, Medical Education Laurence Gardner, M.D., professor, Department of Medicine Daniel Armstrong, Ph.D., professor, Department of Pediatrics, Director, Mailman Center for Child Development Nanette Vega, Ph.D., assistant professor of professional practice, Assistant Dean for Diversity, Inclusion and Community Engagement Edmund Wong, Associate Dean for Finance Compensation Page 1 Team Members Elizabeth Greig, M.D., Medical Director, UHealth|Fisher Island* Eduardo Alfonso, M.D., Chair, Department of Ophthalmology Jose Guillermo Gomez Merce Jorda, M.D., Ph.D, M.B.A., professor and Chair (Interim) Department of Pathology Michael Nares, M.D., assistant professor of Clinical Pediatrics Irena Pastar Ph.D, research associate professor, Department of Dermatology and Cutaneous Surgery Allan Pollack, M.D., Ph.D, Chair, Department of Radiation Oncology Julia Sanchez, M.D., assistant professor of Clinical Medicine, Department of Medicine Seth Schwartz, Ph.D., professor, Department of Public Health Sciences Bradford Lee, M.D., MSc, assistant professor of Clinical Ophthalmology, Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Joan E. St. Onge, M.D., M.P.H., Senior Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs *Denotes Domain Lead Team Priorities Priority 1: Analyze salaries of all faculty by department/division, share and discuss with leadership for developing recommendations to increase fairness and equity. Priority 2: Require Chairs and Center / Institute Directors to complete an annual or bi-annual report on gender and salary equity within department and across divisions for tracking and reporting. Priority 3: Identify activities that add value to the university mission and develop plan for incentivizing individuals appropriately. Priority 4: Gather feedback from faculty at the end of fiscal year to determine how well the compensation plan is working. Faculty Affairs and Professional Development Page 1 Team Members Joan St. Onge, M.D., M.P.H., Senior Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs & Professional Development* Michael Paidas, M.D., Chair, Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology Marie Denise Gervais, M.D., Assistant Professor of Clinical Family Medicine, assistant dean for Admissions Lina Shehadeh, Ph.D, FAHA, Research Professor, Department of Medicine, Enrique Mesri, Ph.D, Professor, Department of Microbiology & Immunology Elizabeth Greig, M.D., Assistant Professor of Clinical Medicine, Medical Director, UHealth|Fisher Island Ana Palacio, M.D., M.P.H., Professor of Public Health Sciences Maria Delgado-Lelievre, M.D., Assistant Professor of Clinical Medicine Heather McCrea, M.D., Ph.D, Assistant Professor of linical neurolsurgery Rose van Zuilen, Ph.D, Associate Professor of Professional Practice, Department of Medical EducationSadfar Kahn, M.D., Assistant Professor of Clinical Pediatrics Helen Hui-Chou, M.D., Associate Professor of Clinical Orthpaedics Sharon Andrade-Bucknor, M.D., Assistant Professor of Clinical Medicine Heidi Allespach, Ph.D., Professor of Clinical Family Medicine. *Denotes Domain Lead Team Priorities Priority 1: Work with HR to develop and disseminate policies for inclusive recruitment of faculty. Priority 2: Develop process for an annual review of faculty composition, including rank, female faculty and URM faculty within each department. Priority 3: Create series of faculty development options focused on the clinician educator, scientist, and NextGenMD faculty. Priority 4: Develop institution-wide mentoring plan for mentors and mentees. Priority 5: Create a division of faculty wellness, focusing on time management, work life balance, financial wellness, and support for faculty. Institutional Culture Page 1 Team Members Michael Paidas, M.D., Chair, Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology* Barth A. Green, M.D., FACS, FAANS Executive Dean of Global Health and Community Service Christopher Hartnett, senior manager, Professional Development Monica Lopez, senior manager of Business Operations, UMMG Ralph Sacco, M.D., M.S., FAHA, FAAN, FANA, Chair of the Department of Neurology Betina Senat, senior manager of Research Administration, Department of Medicine Lina Shehadeh, Ph.D, faculty member, Department of Medicine, Division of Cardiology Carl I. Shulman, M.D., Ph.D, M.S.P.H., Executive Dean for Research Edward R. Schwartz, M.D., Chair of the Department of Family Medicine and Community Health Maria Rose van Zuilen, Ph.D, acting associate director, Educational Development Office Rozanna Vanegas, human resources generalist Iliana Vera, department administrator, UMMG Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine *Denotes Domain Lead Team Priorities Priority 1: Develop plan to incentivize research faculty to promote high-impact academic productivity. Priority 2: Establish guidelines and milestones for reducing disparity among members in the same tracks. Priority 3: Create a centralized resource space to assist investigators with new and ongoing studies, i.e., subject recruitment and retention, and notification of available lectures and workshops. Priority 4: Complete a public inventory of specialized equipment available by individual investigators and establish a committee to create an institutional policy for sharing equipment. Priority 5: Explore opportunities to enhance the Dean’s Bridge award. Priority 6: Create organizational structure that includes a voluntary internal peer review process for research grant applications and grant writing instruction. Research and Development Page 1 Team Members Enrique A. Mesri, Ph.D., Professor of Microbiology & Immunology* Ana Palacio, M.D., M.P.H., professor of Clinical Medicine and Public Health Sciences Joan E. St. Onge, M.D., M.P.H., Senior Associate Dean for Faculty Affairs Grace Zhai, Ph.D., Professor of Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology Carl Schulman, M.D., Ph.D., Executive Dean for Research Shaun P. Brothers Ph.D., Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences Ramiro Verdun Ph.D., Associate Professor of Medicine Zhibin Chen, Ph.D., Associate Professor of Microbiology and Immunology Ernesto Bernal Mizhrachi, Professor and Chief, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and Metabolism, Department of Medicine Maria C. Delgado-Lelievre, M.D, Assistant Professor of Medicine Michael Paidas, M.D., Professor and Chair, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology Sheela Dominguez, Executive Director of Strategic Operations and Co-Administrator, CTSI Karen Young, M.D., Associate Professor of Pediatrics *Denotes Domain Lead Team Priorities Priority 1: Develop plan to incentivize research faculty to promote high-impact academic productivity. Priority 2: Establish guidelines and milestones for reducing disparity among members in the same tracks. Priority 3: Create a centralized resource space to assist investigators with new and ongoing studies, i.e., subject recruitment and retention, and notification of available lectures and workshops. Priority 4: Complete a public inventory of specialized equipment available by individual investigators and establish a committee to create an institutional policy for sharing equipment. Priority 5: Explore opportunities to enhance the Dean’s Bridge award. Priority 6: Create organizational structure that includes a voluntary internal peer review process for research grant applications and grant writing instruction. C-Change Newsletter In order to frequently communicate and keep you abreast of our progress, please see C-Change Newsletter. Summer 2021 Contact Us If you have a story of progress or suggestion related to this initiative, please email facultyaffairs@med.miami.edu. We will share your feedback directly with the Steering Committee charged with managing the C-Change initiative's progress. We look forward to hearing from you. facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved