COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to Main Content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving Home Departments University of Miami Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine Administrative Departments Training the next generation of physicians and scientists. D Department of Medical Education + Open – Close The Department of Medical Education strives to promote excellence in educational endeavors across the continuum of learning. Our goal is to build a robust evaluation and quality improvement program for our NextGenMD curriculum and GME programs and to develop a road map for faculty development programs in education and leadership that support our faculty who are engaged in the educational process. L Louis Calder Memorial Library + Open – Close The Calder Library advances informed decision making and knowledge transfer in support of the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine. The Miller School of Medicine seeks to improve the health of our community through the provision of evidence-based, client-centered health services, the discovery and dissemination of health findings, the education of medical and health leaders, and community service. Basic Science Departments Driving medical advancements through research. B Biochemistry & Molecular Biology + Open – Close Welcome to the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (BMB) at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine. C Cell Biology + Open – Close The Department of Cell Biology at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine is dedicated to excellence and innovation in research and education of research scientists and physicians. M Microbiology and Immunology + Open – Close In the Department of Microbiology our mission is 1) to perform basic biomedical research leading to breakthroughs that that translates into improving our heath; 2) to train the next generation of biomedical scientists in the fields of Microbiology and Immunology; and 3) to educate Medical, Graduate, and Undergraduate students in the fields of Microbiology and Immunology. Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology + Open – Close The Department of Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology at the University of Miami is strongly committed to the establishment of excellence in both research and education. Its active research program spans a wide range of interests from studies of the molecular mechanisms of contraction in cardiovascular and skeletal muscle to neuropharmacological studies examining the molecular mechanisms of neuronal signaling and synapse formation. P Physiology and Biophysics + Open – Close Physiology studies the functions of living organisms and their parts, from single molecules, to single cells to tissues, to organs, to whole organisms. Biophysics uses mathematics, and computer powered numerical computation, to apply the laws of physics and chemistry to study physiological function. Public Health Sciences + Open – Close The Department of Public Health Sciences is actively working internationally, nationally and locally to promote health and reduce the burden of disease. Our faculty maintains active research programs focusing on drug and alcohol abuse, HIV, cancer, diabetes, obesity, heart disease, and other illnesses that threaten the health of our city, our state, our nation, and the world. . Clinical Departments Empowering faculty, staff, students and trainees to transform lives. A Anesthesiology + Open – Close We provide excellence through the education and training of all learners. Through research we promote the investigation of new ideas and we foster a professional environment that ensures responsible communication while enhancing the clinical and academic strengths of the faculty. Acute Pain Medicine and Regional Anesthesiology Cardiothoracic Anesthesia Critical Care Neuroanesthesia Obstetric Anesthesiology Pediatric Anesthesiology Solid Organ Transplant and Vascular Anesthesia Trauma Anesthesiology B Bascom Palmer Eye Institute (Dept. of Ophthalmology) + Open – Close Bascom Palmer Eye Institute regards the education of its ophthalmology residents and fellows, medical students and ophthalmologists from around the world as one of its highest priorities thus ensuring the vision needs of future generations are met. This tradition of excellence has been instrumental in earning the Institute world recognition for outstanding teaching, research, and patient care. D Desai Sethi Urology Institute + Open – Close Much remains to be learned about many urologic disorders. It is only through research that a new treatment may be deemed to be safe and effective. We believe that the diverse research that we perform at the University of Miami Desai Sethi Urology Institute (University of Miami Department of Urology), gives our patients the opportunity to be treated with the most contemporary, cutting-edge treatments available anywhere! DeWitt Daughtry Family Department of Surgery + Open – Close Cardiothoracic Surgery + – The Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery at University of Miami Miller School of Medicine’s Department of Surgery is one of the premier cardiothoracic centers in the world. Cellular Transplantation Colon and Rectal Surgery Endocrine Surgery General Surgery Laparoendoscopic and Minimally Invasive Surgery + – Minimally Invasive Surgical Training and Education Center Oral Maxillofacial Surgery and Dentistry Pediatric and Adolescent Surgery + – The Division of Pediatric Surgery at University of Miami Miller School of Medicine provides skilled and comprehensive surgical care for children from birth to adolescence. Plastic Surgery Surgical Oncology + – The mission of the Division of Surgical Oncology at the University of Miami School of Medicine’s DeWitt Daughtry Family Department of Surgery is to provide timely, expert, compassionate care to cancer patients and to advance the treatment of cancer through research and teaching. Transplant Surgery Trauma, Burns and Surgical Critical Care Vascular and Endovascular Surgery + – The Division of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery has assembled a group of physicians, nurses, and staff dedicated to providing compassionate state-of-the-art medical care. Dr. John T. Macdonald Foundation Department of Human Genetics + Open – Close The Dr. John T MacDonald Department of Human Genetics is an integrated genetics department, home to nationally and internationally recognized clinical, research, and educational programs and faculty. We are proud to be ranked 2nd in the nation in our discipline, based on grants awarded by the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Many of our 26 full time faculty are renown in their field of expertise. Division of Clinical and Translational Genetics + – Our mission is to provide advanced clinical care and genetic counseling to patients of all age groups and their families. We strive to participate in clinical research where positive outcomes could directly benefit patients. Dr. Phillip Frost Department of Dermatology and Cutaneous Surgery + Open – Close Founded over 60 years ago, our Dr. Phillip Frost Department of Dermatology and Cutaneous Surgery is one of the most respected and dynamic programs in the country. Striving for excellence in all of our missions, we take great pride and joy in working in education, research, clinical care, and community service. Dermatopathology Skin of Color Division The Frankel Family Division of Melanocytic Tumors F Family Medicine and Community Health + Open – Close Education is one of the department’s primary missions. Our faculty members work diligently to prepare the next generation of physicians to become caring family doctors, committed to the well-being of patients, their families, and the community at large. Our family medicine residency program provides broad-based and comprehensive medical education essential for family physicians in training. I Interventional Radiology + Open – Close Interventional radiology is a specialty that cuts across different disciplines, with the ability to treat nearly every organ in the body with minimally invasive, targeted treatments. Using CAT scan or other advanced imaging techniques, interventional radiologists are able to direct a catheter through an artery to treat a disease at a specific site internally. M Medicine + Open – Close Since its establishment in 1952, the Department of Medicine has been the prototype of a clinically active academic program in general internal medicine, hospital medicine and its subspecialties. The Department is staffed by nearly 330 full-time faculty members. The Department’s success relies on the interactive exchange amongst the various specialties within the Department but also within the Medical School and the larger University. Cardiovascular Medicine Clinical Pharmacology Crohn's & Colitis Center Digestive Health and Liver Diseases Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism General Internal Medicine Geriatrics and Palliative Medicine Hematology Hospital Medicine Infectious Diseases Katz Family Division of Nephrology and Hypertension Medical Oncology Pulmonary, Critical Care and Sleep Medicine Rheumatology Transplantation and Cellular Therapy N Neurological Surgery + Open – Close For over 50 years, neurological surgery at the University of Miami, Miller School of Medicine, has been a renowned leader in its field, training and attracting esteemed faculty and treating patients from all over the world. The department’s reputation has been built on the dedication of its chairmen and faculty. Our broad patient population has provided residents and fellows with exposure to an extraordinary range of neurosurgical diseases and injuries. Our clinical faculty has grown to represent all major areas of neurosurgical expertise and has always been highly committed to maintaining a world-class training program. Neurology + Open – Close The Department of Neurology at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine is dedicated to providing medical students, residents and fellows in-depth instruction in all facets of neurology and developing skills that equip them to exceed the highest standards of patient care and research. Clinical Translational Research Division (CTRD) Cognitive Aging Division + – Cognitive decline with age is common and may be caused by a variety of conditions. These include Mild Cognitive impairment (MCI), Vascular Cognitive impairment (VCI), Alzheimer’s Disease, and Vascular dementia. In these conditions, the spectrum of disease begins with a normal cognitive state, may progress to mild cognitive impairment and later, dementia. Comprehensive Center For Brain Health + – The Comprehensive Program For Brain Health, located at UHealth Palm Beach Gardens has a dual focus of diagnosis and prevention of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer’s Disease, Lewy Body Dementia, and Frontotemporal Degeneration. Evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment is provided by a multi-disciplinary team composed of neurologists, nurse practitioners, licensed clinical social workers, and physical therapists. Epilepsy + – The International Center for Epilepsy (ICE) at the University of Miami is a national and international leader in epilepsy. General Neurology Division + – The Division of General Neurology provides expertise in the evaluation and treatment of the entire spectrum of neurologic diseases including headache, spine disease, Multiple Sclerosis, movement disorders, seizure disorders, neuropathies, myopathies, dizziness and vertigo, Myasthenia Gravis, hydrocephalus, pseudotumor cerebri, memory disorders and dementia, vascular disease, tumors, and neurologic complications of medical (systemic) diseases, among many others. Headache Division + – The goals of clinical encounters in the Headache Division are to obtain an accurate diagnosis and to develop a headache care plan that emphasizes prevention, risk reduction, safety, and return to well-being. Consultation and referral services are enriched with patient education and interdisciplinary referrals when appropriate. Interventional Neurology Division + – The Interventional Neurology Division works collaboratively to provide comprehensive care and treatment to patients with complex neurovascular diseases, including aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations and others. Movement Disorders Division + – The Center for Parkinson’s Disease and Movement Disorders (the “Center”) is a division of the Department of Neurology within the Leonard M. Miller School of Medicine (MSM) of the University of Miami (UM). The Center was started in 1984 and has been under the direction of Dr. Carlos Singer since 2002. Multiple Sclerosis Division + – The Multiple Sclerosis Center of Excellence is a National MS Society of South Florida affiliated program which offers services in a state-of-the-art clinic. Neurocritical Care Division + – The Neurocritical Care Division’s goal is to provide cutting edge advanced critical care for neurological and neurosurgical patients. Our physicians are trained in leading international centers and staff two intensive care units: a 24 bed unit located at Jackson Memorial Hospital (JMH) and an 8 bed unit at The University of Miami Hospital (UMH). Neuromuscular Division + – The Neuromuscular Division is home to the Kessenich Family ALS Center, the adult and pediatric Muscular Dystrophy Association (MDA) Clinics and the University of Miami Electromyography Laboratory. Our diverse faculty provides comprehensive and compassionate care to patients with a broad range of neuromuscular diseases, as well as both electrodiagnostic and neuromuscular pathology services. Neuro-Oncology Division + – Neuro-Oncology at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine is represented by a multi-disciplinary group of specialists from Neurology, Neurosurgery, Radiation Oncology, Medical Oncology, Neuropathology and Neuroradiology. Neuropsychology and Cognitive Neuroscience Division + – The Division of Neuropsychology and Cognitive Neuroscience was founded in 1981 and has a 3 tier focus; clinical, education and research. Our faculty is dedicated to the evaluation and clinical testing of patients with a wide variety of neurological, psychological, and medical disorders affecting cognition and emotion. The Division is also heavily engaged in research in collaboration with other members in the Department of Neurology. Finally, we are committed to training the next generation of leaders in the fields of neuropsychology, and cognitive neuroscience. Our program offers evidence-based hands on training in all testing and modalities used to diagnose and treat cognitive disorders. Pediatric Neurology Division + – The division of pediatric neurology at the University of Miami School of Medicine, in affiliation with Miami Children’s Hospital, is committed to the diagnosis and treatment of childhood-onset neurologic disorders. Sleep Medicine Division + – The mission of the University of Miami Sleep Program is to provide expert evaluation and comprehensive treatment of sleep disorders, to develop an outstanding research program and to serve as the leading resource for professional and technologist training in sleep medicine for South Florida. Clinical services are delivered by a multidisciplinary team of specialists and technologists working at the University of Miami facility, which is fully accredited by the American Academy of Sleep as a comprehensive sleep center. Stroke Division + – The Stroke Division at the Miller School of Medicine’s Department of Neurology is dedicated to the acute treatment, prevention, and rehabilitation of stroke victims. UHealth Neurology Virtual Care + – UHealth Neurology Virtual Care, A Neurology Visit From Anywhere, allows you to get the same world-class Neurological care, from UHealth Neurology providers, whether you are at home, in the office or anywhere. We offer UHealth Neurology Virtual Care Video Visits, UHealth Neurology Virtual Care Audio Visits, UHealth Neurology Virtual Care E-Visits and UHealth Neurology Virtual Care Quick Check-Ins. Veterans Affairs (VA) + – The Neurology Department at the Miami VA Healthcare System is the busiest neurology department among the VA hospitals in the area of Florida and the Caribbean with a total of 8138 outpatient visits for fiscal year 07. O Obstetrics, Gynecology & Reproductive Sciences + Open – Close Our department has participated in breakthrough research such as studies leading to the reduction of perinatal transmission of HIV from mother to child during pregnancy. Today, our physicians are studying ways to repair life-threatening conditions in babies while they are still in the womb and exploring new treatments for gynecologic cancers. Family Planning Reproductive Sciences Ophthalmology (Bascom Palmer Eye Institute) + Open – Close Bascom Palmer Eye Institute regards the education of its ophthalmology residents and fellows, medical students and ophthalmologists from around the world as one of its highest priorities thus ensuring the vision needs of future generations are met. This tradition of excellence has been instrumental in earning the Institute world recognition for outstanding teaching, research, and patient care. Orthopaedics + Open – Close For over 35 years, the department has conducted the most advanced patient care, medical instruction, and research – all with the goal of helping more people regain function and lead more active and fulfilling lives. Each year, our doctors administer care through 45,000 outpatient and 9,000 orthopaedic emergency room visits and perform more than 10,000 surgical procedures Otolaryngology + Open – Close Our Department services cover the full spectrum of the field of Otolaryngology. Our service specialties include: Adult and Pediatric Otolaryngology, Ear Institute (Audiology, Otology, and Neurotology), Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Head and Neck Cancer, Laryngology and Voice, Rhinology (Allergy and Sinus), Sleep Medicine, and Speech Language Pathology. P Pathology & Laboratory Medicine + Open – Close The Department of Pathology at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine was established in 1953 and has been dedicated to the mission of making important contributions to patient care, education, and research in the specialty of laboratory medicine ever since. Anatomic Pathology Hematopathology Laboratory Medicine Pediatrics + Open – Close Founded in 1952, the Department of Pediatrics at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine is the largest research and treatment institute for children in the southeastern United States. With 16 clinical divisions, 17 community programs and several centers, we provide comprehensive academic pediatric care to the children, adolescents, and families of South Florida and the Americas. Allergy and Immunology Bone Marrow Transplant Cardiology Child and Adolescent Health Critical Care Endocrinology Gastroenterology Hematology/Oncology Infectious Diseases Neonatology Nephrology Poison Control Pulmonology Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation + Open – Close Our department offers two types of training – Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Residency and Spinal Cord Injury Medicine Fellowship. In addition, we accept visiting medical students as well as observers from the US and internationally. Please refer to the following links for relevant information. Brain Injury Medicine Cancer Rehabilitation Medicine Interventional Spine Medicine Musculoskeletal Medicine Neuromuscular and Electrodiagnostic Medicine Neuropsychology Pediatric Rehabilitation Medicine Post-Amputation Rehabilitation Medicine Spinal Cord Injury Medicine Physical Therapy + Open – Close The Department of Physical Therapy offers two doctoral level degrees; a three year, entry level clinical doctoral degree the Doctor of Physical Therapy (DPT) and an academic doctoral degree, (Ph.D.) in Physical Therapy. Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences + Open – Close The University of Miami Miller School of Medicine Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences offers residents, postdoctoral students, and fellows a dynamic, transformative training experience that provides a broad demographic mix of patients from South Florida’s multicultural community. Addiction Psychiatry Adult Suicide Prevention Program Center for Cognitive Neuroscience and Aging Center for HIV and Research in Mental Health (CHARM) Child and Adolescent Psychiatry Consult-Liaison Psychiatry Program Geriatrics Psychology UHealth Tourette Center of Excellence Women's Reproductive Mental Health Program R Radiation Oncology + Open – Close The mission of the Radiation Oncology at University of Miami/Jackson Memorial Hospital is to provide its trainees with an academically oriented, evidence-based curriculum. Combining supportive and accessible faculty, complex clinical cases, and extensive subspecialty exposure, our program will provide residents the confidence and independence required to the next step in their careers. Radiology + Open – Close Abdominal Imaging Cardiothoracic Radiology ER/Trauma and Acute Care Radiology Musculoskeletal Radiology Neuroradiology Nuclear Medicine Pediatric Imaging Women's Imaging U Urology (Desai Sethi Urology Institute) + Open – Close Much remains to be learned about many urologic disorders. It is only through research that a new treatment may be deemed to be safe and effective. We believe that the diverse research that we perform at the University of Miami Desai Sethi Urology Institute (University of Miami Department of Urology), gives our patients the opportunity to be treated with the most contemporary, cutting -edge treatments available anywhere! Administrative Offices Support for our faculty and students. Offices Centers & Institutes Discovering and disseminating knowledge to enhance medicine. Centers & Institutes facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved