Latest information on COVID-19 Skip to Content Skip to Local Navigation Skip to Global Navigation Stanford Medicine Alumni Association Site Nav Menu See us on twitter See us on linkedin Stanford Medicine Explore Stanford Medicine Health Care Find a doctor Adult-care doctor Pediatrician or pediatric specialist Obstetrician Clinics & Services Adult care Pediatric care Obstetrics Clinical trials Locations Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Emergency Department Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency Explore Health Care Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion Back Research Basic science departments Clinical science departments Institutes Research centers See full directory Research Resources Research administration Academic profiles Clinical trials Funding opportunities See all Professional Training Postdoctoral scholars Clinical research fellows Research News Stanford team stimulates neurons to induce particular perceptions in mice's minds Explore Research Learn how we are fueling innovation Back Education MD program PA Programs PhD programs Masters programs Continuing Medical Education Postdoctoral scholars Residencies & fellowships High School & Undergraduate Programs See all Education Resources Academic profiles School Administration Basic science departments Clinical science departments Alumni services Faculty resources Diversity programs Lane Library Student resources Education News Students from far and near begin medical studies at Stanford Explore Education Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders Back Give Support Stanford Medicine Support teaching, research, and patient care. Ways to give Why giving matters Make a gift online Support Children's Health Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health Ways to give How your gift helps Make an online gift Back About About us News Contacts Maps & directions Leadership Vision Diversity Global health Community engagement Events How you can help Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Back Site Search Submit Search Query Alumni Benefits About Us About Us About Us Board of Governors FAQ Staff & Resources Privacy Policy Get Involved Get Involved Ways to Volunteer Make a Gift Programs & Events Programs & Events Kornberg Berg Award RISE Award Sterling Award Sierra Camp 2022 Alumni Community Alumni Community Alumni Directory Class Notes Class Notes Diana Bianchi In Memoriam Sierra Camp Weekend 2022 Learn More Become a mentor! Join the 1st Gen Program Learn More Welcome to Alumnihood - Update your Information! Don't miss any news or events from the alumni association COVID-19 Stanford Medicine Updates See what Stanford Medicine is doing to combat the pandemic Alumni & Social Justice View Social Justice Alumni Resources Upcoming Events 06/02/22 - 06/05/22 Sierra Camp Weekend Join us for the twelth annual Stanford Medical Alumni Association week-end at Stanford's Sierra Camp at Fallen Leaf Lake! Camp is always a very special weekend full of relaxation, great food, and outstanding activities! Everything from hiking, star gazing, swimming, boating, photography, art, nature walks, to wonderful talks and discussions with fellow alumni and friends. Learn More Recent Events 04/30/22: Beyond The Farm - Cancer CAREPoint Thank you for everyone who was able to join the Stanford Medicine Alumni Association and Cancer CAREpoint as we created cancer CARE kits and no-sew blankets for those impacted by cancer in Silicon Valley, including patients in treatment and caregivers. CARE kits are filled with items to bring comfort, relief, and support and will be made available at no charge to recipients through Cancer CAREpoint. We were able to put together approximately 100 bags, complete with blankets, in three hours. Learn More 04/09/22 Alumni Day Thank you to all that were able to come back to The Farm for a day of celebration with our vibrant alumni community of medical and bioscience graduates. We hope you enjoyed reconnecting to the campus and with your former classmates, meeting new colleagues, and enjoyed inspiring faculty as we explored this year’s theme—Rethinking Cancer: New Perspectives in Research and Care. View our Video and Photo Gallery! Learn more 03/18/22: Match Day Evening Celebration Thank you to all that could join the Stanford Medicine Alumni Association for the 27th annual Match Day evening celebration! The MD Class of 2022 and their guests were joined by board members, the dean of the Stanford School of Medicine, and senior administrators for a reception and dinner to celebrate students' residency matches and upcoming graduation from Stanford School of Medicine. Learn More 03/09/22 Student Outreach to Alumni Resources (SOAR) Dinner Thank you to all that could join us for the annual SOAR (Student Outreach to Alumni Resources) mentoring event for PhD students who are exploring different industries and career options. Learn more 02/16/22 Half Century Club Virtual Celebration Thank you to everyone that could join us for this unique virtual celebration designed to honor medical alumni and friends across multiple graduation years to celebrate those alumni who graduated more than 50 years ago. We hope you were able to catch up with old classmates and enjoyed this year's presentation by speaker, Robert Harrington, MD. Watch "A Heartfelt Future" with Robert Harrington 02/08/22 MD Exploring Specialties Dinner Thank you to all who were able to make it to the 7th annual Exploring Specialties Dinner! This mentoring event is designed for first, second and third year medical students who are exploring medical specialties and career options, and we appreciate your participation! Learn more CANCELED - 01/09/22 JP Morgan Conference Mixer Due to the JP Morgan Healthcare Conference moving to a virtual event, we have decided to cancel this mixer. We hope to have this event again when the conference will take place in person. 12/04/21 Alumni Awards Dinner Thank you to all who were able to join the Stanford Medicine Alumni Association as they presented awards to distinguished alumni for exceptional service to Stanford Medicine and outstanding lifetime contributions to medicine and the biomedical sciences. Watch videos here Covid-19 and Live Events Due to the evolving risk associated with COVID-19 and out of concern for the well-being of our guests, Stanford will be moving forward cautiously with hosting in person events and classes this Spring following the guidance of local officials and that of the CDC. In-person events of large gatherings can be cancelled or changed to a virtual format at any time, and in person gatherings may have additional safety protocols in place that will be communicated prior to events. We regret any inconvenience these changes may cause. For updates, please check your individual SMAA event on this website or contact our offices. Stanford University updates can be found at http://med.stanford.edu/covid19. Racial Justice As leaders of Stanford Medicine, we come to this time of tragedy, unrest, and reckoning with the Stanford School of Medicine's pledge against racism and violence against BIPOC. For additional alumni and campus resources on this issue, please visit the Stanford Alumni Racial Justice Resources page. Stay Connected Follow us on Twitter @StanfordMedAlum The Stanford Medicine Alumni Association is on Twitter and we want to hear from you! We hope you'll follow us, favorite us, and tweet at us- we'll give you plenty of reasons to keep in touch. Follow us Join our official group on LinkedIn The official alumni association LinkedIn group is over 1,300 strong! Network with other professionals all over the world. Start a lively discussion,hear about upcoming events, and make powerful connections across your alumni community. Join our group Contact Us Stanford Medicine Alumni Association 485 Broadway St. Redwood City, CA 94063 P: 650.725.0526 medalumni@stanford.edu Stanford Medicine News May 26, 2022 Cancer disparities in Pacific Islanders Native Hawaiians and other Pacific Islanders experience poorer breast cancer survival outcomes that are hidden when their data is included in Asian populations, Stanford researcher says. May 26, 2022 Introducing the New M-TRAM Program We are excited to announce the new Stanford Master's of Science in Translational Research and Applied Medicine (M-TRAM) that will start September 2022. May 20, 2022 Microbiologist Hugh McDevitt dies at 91 The Stanford immunologist’s research on how our immune cells recognize pathogens — and what happens when this process goes wrong — paved the way to modern immunology. Scope Blog Med School 101 Stanford Medicine Magazine Stanford Medicine News Stanford Medicine YouTube Channel Updates from Dean Minor Featured Audio Projects 1:2:1 Podcast An award-winning podcast from Stanford's School of Medicine, 1:2:1 presents engaging conversations about how advances in health-care policy and biomedical research touch our lives. The podcast is hosted by Paul Costello, the medical school's chief communications officer. State of the Human Podcast State of the Human, the radio show of the Stanford Storytelling Project, shares stories that deepen our understanding of single, common human experiences—belonging, giving, lying, forgiveness—all drawn from the experiences and research of the Stanford community. Stanford Radio Presenting the newest ideas, research and conversation from Stanford University The Equation "The Equation" is a quarterly e-newsletter. Features include research and faculty news, gift stories, recent and upcoming events, and announcements from across the Stanford Medicine. Read more Find People Visit Stanford Search Clinical Trials Give a Gift ©2022 Stanford Medicine SMAA Privacy Policy Privacy Policy Terms of Use See us on Facebook See us on Twitter Stanford University Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford University Healthcare Alliance