COVID-19 Critical COVID-19 information and resources. Read More Skip to Main Content Font Size Smaller Bigger Contrast Lightb Darkb Menu Search University of Miami Health System Close Search Admissions and Education Page 1 Admissions and Education arrow--button Medical Programs Graduate Studies Postdoctoral Programs Professional Training Continuing Medical Education Externships Observerships Certifications Library Administrative Offices Student Life Close Drawer Research Page 1 Research arrow--button Basic Science Research Clinical & Translational Research Data Science & IT Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Funding Opportunities Research Resources Find a Core Facility Find Clinical Trials Close Drawer Departments Page 1 Departments arrow--button Clinical Departments Basic Science Departments Centers & Institutes Administrative Offices Library Student Life Close Drawer About Us Page 1 About Us arrow--button Leadership Culture Change History Administrative Offices Community Outreach Diversity & Inclusion Close Drawer Search Seeking Patient Care? Alumni Giving Home Miami Transportation & Parking Transportation & Parking Menu Miami Miami Moving to Miami Transportation & Parking Campus Eats Diversity & Inclusion Campus Highlights Arts & Entertainment Shopping & Services Athletics During the pre-clinical phases, students often rely on public transportation options to get around town for both personal and school-related activities. However, many students may consider having their own mode of transportation by the time they begin clinical rotations, which at times may not be as easily accessible through public transport. The need for personal transportation should not pose additional hardship on any student. The cost of transportation to and from your assigned clinical site may not be reflected in the cost of attendance for financial assistance. Students can always contact the Office of Financial Assistance at medfinaid@miami.edu to review options to adjust the cost of attendance and awards. Metrorail The MetroRail provides service to Miami International Airport (MIA) and runs from Kendall through South Miami, Coral Gables, and downtown Miami; to the Civic Center/Jackson Memorial Hospital area; and to Brownsville, Liberty City, Hialeah, and Medley in northwest Miami-Dade, with connections to Broward and Palm Beach counties at the Tri-Rail/Metrorail transfer station. The Metrorail operates from 5 a.m. to midnight seven days a week. Full time University of Miami students can now access the unique college discount EASY Ticket by downloading the EASY Pay Miami app for iOS and Android and using their UM email address to create a new account. Then call Miami-Dade Transit at 786-469-5151 to complete your registration! See installation instructions. Once you have registered and paid, you can board Metrorail by scanning your phone at the Metrorail fare gate or ride a Metrobus by showing your active ticket to the bus driver. Public Transportation Program All Metro buses are equipped with bike racks on the front and do not require a permit. Make sure to plan your route and monitor the clock if you choose to take a CitiBike on a bus. MetroBus The MetroBus consists of 95 routes across Miami-Dade which connect every part to the MetroRail and beaches. Several bus routes operate 24 hours a day and three routes provide overnight service between 11 p.m. and 6 a.m. See individual route schedules for hours of operations. EASY Card, EASY Ticket, and cash (no pennies) are all acceptable forms of payment. Metromover The free MetroMover service operates from 5 a.m. to midnight seven days a week. There are several different loops (Omni Loop, Brickell Loop, and Inner Loop) that cover most of downtown Miami. Metromover cars arrive every 90 seconds during rush hours and every three minutes during off-peak hours. Tri-Rail TriRail service runs between Miami, Fort Lauderdale, and West Palm Beach. Trolley Services Coral Gables Trolley Hurry ‘Cane Shuttle (Serving Main Campus) Miami Trolley Miami Beach Trolley Ride Sharing Lyft (Follow link for a discount) Über (Follow link for a discount) Car Sharing With car sharing, you obtain a membership and pick up the nearest car and pay by the mileage or time used. Car2Go Zipcar (Follow link for a discount) CitiBike Service There are CitiBike stations all over Miami and Miami Beach. Get a membership card and start biking all over the city. Parking The Department of Security office is responsible for issuing parking access for those who wish to park at the medical campus. Information is available at the link above. Parking spaces are also available in the privately–owned decks in the area such as Dominion Towers Parking Garage. Call 305 324 0900 for more information. Hybrid Vehicle Parking Rebate In keeping with UM’s ongoing commitment to implement green practices in its operations, full–time faculty, staff, and students who drive hybrid vehicles to work can get a 50% parking rebate up to $215 per year. Miami International Airport Miami International Airport (MIA) is served directly by shuttle, bus, and taxi. Public transportation is also available for travel both to and from the airport on several bus lines and the Metrorail Orange Line Miami Beach Airport Flyer – MetroBus #150 Runs every 30 minutes from 6 a.m. to 11 p.m., daily. Only $2.35 each way. Busses are equipped with luggage racks and free Wi-Fi. Super Shuttle Shared-ride shuttle service with door-to-door service to MIA and FLL airports. facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Research Gate Resources News Admissions and Education Research MyUM UM Network Alumni Association Giving Wellness Center Employment University of Miami Visit Campus Highlights Transportation & Parking UHealth Bascom Palmer Eye Institute Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center Emergency Information | Privacy Statement & Legal Notices © 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved