RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Articles»Mechanical Assist Chibuikem Nwizu and Lorin Crawford MD/PhD candidate Chibuikem Nwizu, left, meets with his mentor, Lorin Crawford. Mechanical Assist 0 By Kris Cambra on May 2019 AI can’t replace doctors, but it could help them do their job. With everything physicians have to juggle just to get their job done, wouldn’t it be nice to have a little mechanical assistance? That’s just what artificial intelligence in medicine aims to provide. Machine-learning applications can facilitate decision-based medical tasks to support and improve the performance of human care providers. The goal isn’t to replace the physician, but to make their job easier and patient outcomes better. As a Program in Liberal Medical Education concentrator in applied math and biology, Chibuikem Nwizu ’17 MD’21 PhD’23 wanted to apply the power of machine-learning tools to stem cell biology. “I was looking to see if there was a way that I can use my skill set and apply it to this new area,” Nwizu says. He found the stem cell lab of Peter Quesenberry, MD, the Paul Calabresi, MD, Professor of Oncology, where Theo Borgovan F’20, MD, a hematology/oncology fellow at Rhode Island Hospital, was doing research. They were happy to teach Nwizu the wet lab techniques to isolate stem cells. But Nwizu also needed a mentor in computational science. Enter Lorin Crawford, PhD, assistant professor of biostatistics at the School of Public Health. While not quite familiar with stem cell biology, Crawford says “a lot of my work is motivated by genetics and genomics and we use computational methods to solve complex problems in that broad space.” So he was definitely interested in working with Nwizu: “It’s like a wide-open, wild, wild West-type thing,” Crawford says. “We were in a cool space to do something really special.” Borgovan studies extracellular vesicles—the carrier pigeons found in all cells that relay messages to other cells. Sometimes the message is good, and helps cells heal or grow; sometimes it’s a nastygram of toxic information, such as cancer. When Borgovan began isolating EVs from patients with leukemia, he found that healthy EVs can protect other healthy cells, and even kill cancer cells apoptotically, so the cell implodes and causes no subsequent immune reaction. Nwizu, Crawford, and Borgovan began brainstorming research questions that would meld the wet lab with the computer lab. What if they could teach a computer to differentiate the good from the bad EVs at a glance? Let’s say a patient has been treated for leukemia and is monitored for recurrent disease. The physician could load the blood sample into the computer and the algorithm could recognize the slightest changes in EVs, detecting recurrent disease early. “This is where it’s so great that we have all this patient data,” Borgovan says. Matching the molecular to the clinical outcomes is a powerful tool in machine learning. “Using the vesicle profile, we could come up with a diagnosis and as we acquire more samples and patient data, the algorithm will also be able to come up with a prognosis,” he says. The algorithms are intended to improve the diagnostic process, Crawford says. “There are elements about a patient that only the clinician who sees that patient can know—‘this patient can’t have this treatment because of X, Y, and Z that the algorithm doesn’t know.’ But if we can help find a starting point, we can allow physicians to focus on the parts only they can do.” As a future physician, Nwizu agrees: “Any good tool will not replace the wielder of the tool. It just augments the wielder’s accuracy and efficiency.” AI Chibuikem Nwizu Genetics genomics Lorin Crawford PLME Spring 2019 stem cells Theo Borgovan Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Students Honor Anatomy Donors and Families May 2022 0 Made for These Times May 2022 0 A Breathalyzer for COVID? Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos