Skip to Main Content Yale Institute for Global Health Yale Institute for Global Health Yale UniversityYale Institute for Global Health About Programs For Faculty Sustainable Health Initiative For Students Resources YIGH Case Competition The Global Health Case Competition is designed for Yale University undergraduate, graduate, and professional students across diverse disciplines and backgrounds to collaborate and develop innovative solutions to pressing global health challenges. Led by the Yale Institute for Global Health, the competition is co-sponsored by the Global Health Leadership Initiative, Yale School of Nursing Office of Global Health, Global Health Concentration Yale School of Public Health and Yale School of Medicine Office of Global Health Education. Student participants have an opportunity to exercise their creativity, technical expertise, practice public speaking, apply critical thinking skills, and engage in program design and implementation. Cases are presented to a panel of judges comprised of faculty with experience in global health research and practice. Judges provide high-level constructive feedback that to foster student growth and development. Winners of the Global Health Case Competition receive a cash prize and represent Yale at the Emory International Global Health Case Competition. Click here to learn more about the 2022 Case Competition. Yale Team Wins Emory Morningside Global Health Case Competition Read more here For Students YIGH Case Competition 2020 Case Competition 2021 Case Competition 2022 Case Competition 2020 Case 2021 Case PO Box 208034 New Haven, CT 06520-8034 Maps & Directions 2 Events you could attend in June 2022 Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook Powered by Yale School of Medicine web platforms © 2022 Yale University. Updated 04/06/2022 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [4,77,11,56,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-Banner","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","features-navigation-components-sidebar-navigation-SidebarNavigation","common-components-buttons-Button","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [5,79,7,14,58,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-Banner","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","features-navigation-components-sidebar-navigation-SidebarNavigation","common-components-buttons-Button","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}