Skip to main content  Lewis Katz School of Medicine MENU About About the School Leadership Administrative Offices Alumni Giving News Events Contact Education MD Program Biomedical Sciences Program Physician Assistant Program Postbac Program Urban Bioethics Program Clinical Simulation Center Narrative Medicine Program Continuing Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Student Resources Research About Research Research Administration Clinical Research Regulatory Core Facilities and Services Resources for Researchers Community & Patients Patient Care About Patient Care About Temple Health About the Faculty Practice Search Clinical Trials Departments & Centers Faculty Directory Admissions Alumni Giving Contact Resources For Students For Faculty For Researchers Emergency Preparedness For TFP Physicians & Staff Library Information Technology Services Temple Health Lewis Katz School of Medicine - Home Page Congratulations, Class of 2022! As momentous as the Lewis Katz School of Medicine’s 120th commencement was for the graduates, their families, and the participating faculty, it was also wonderfully normal. Temple Med Community Comes Together for Reunion and Alumni Weekend The 2022 Reunion & Alumni Weekend, April 29-30, welcomed more than 200 alumni and friends, who joined together to celebrate the past as well as the school’s exciting advances in medical education and research. A Tradition is Rekindled for Katz School of Medicine Fourth-Year Students For the first time since 2019, fourth-year medical students at the Lewis Katz School of Medicine gathered in person and learned together where the next phase of their medical training will take them. An Incredible Focus on POCUS at the Lewis Katz School of Medicine Experts predict that a technology called POCUS will transform the practice of medicine. And, in a first for medical education in the eastern United States, the Lewis Katz School of Medicine has supplied the technology to every medical student in its classes of 2024 and 2025 within the same academic year. A Shared Quest: Dr. Edmundowicz and the Florence P. Bernheimer Chair in Cardiology Thanks to a generous, forward-thinking North Philadelphian named Florence P. Bernheimer (1890-1985), Dr. Daniel Edmundowicz now holds Temple University’s Florence P. Bernheimer Distinguished Service Professorship Chair – and has funding earmarked for research in cardiology at Temple. Temple Researchers Step Closer to a Cure for Human HIV Infection Taking a major step forward in HIV research, Temple researchers have successfully edited SIV – a virus closely related to HIV, the cause of AIDS – from the genomes of non-human primates. This breakthrough brings the research team closer than ever to developing a cure for human HIV infection. playpause News News May 27, 2022 Faculty Spotlight: Dr. Abhijit S. Pathak View Story News May 20, 2022 Seven Stellar Educators Win Educational Excellence Awards at the Lewis Katz School of Medicine View Story More News Events More Events Stories from Temple's Narrative Medicine Program A unique program at the Lewis Katz School of Medicine that teaches our students and physicians to use stories and storytelling to nourish empathy and humanism in their profession. These are their stories. Learn More Welcome from Dr. Amy Goldberg, Interim Dean A nationally celebrated clinician scholar, educator, and violence-prevention advocate, Dr. Goldberg has devoted more than 30 years to clinical practice, medical education, and community service at Temple. Learn More Stay Connected Contact Lewis Katz School of Medicine Medical Education & Research Building 3500 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, PA 19140 Important Links: Give Now Careers Dean's Office News Events Maps & Directions TUmail TUportal Copyright 2020, Temple University. All rights reserved. Temple Health Terms of Use