Skip to Main Content Tobacco Research in Psychiatry Tobacco Research in Psychiatry Yale School of MedicinePsychiatry Tobacco Research in Psychiatry CENTURY Gender TCORS TRY TTC Yale-VA Youth Quit Vaping Nicotine Research Intervention Tobacco Center of Regulatory Science The Yale Tobacco Center of Regulatory Science (TCORS 1.0) was formed at Yale in 2013 under a five-year federal grant to research the influence of flavors, including menthol, on tobacco addiction. The work at Yale and 13 other federally funded research centers has provided science-based knowledge to the U.S. FDA, which regulates tobacco. In September of 2018, the National Institute of Health and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration renewed a grant for the Yale Tobacco Center of Regulatory Science (TCORS 2.0) to continue to investigate the influence of flavors and sweeteners, and other constituents, on the appeal and addictive potential of traditional tobacco products and newer products like e-cigarettes. With the overarching goal of reducing appeal and addiction to tobacco products, the Yale TCORS 2.0 will conduct detailed evaluations of the influence of flavors and sweeteners on initiation, continued use and addiction and harm reduction from tobacco products. Cohesive and hypothesis driven, our research incorporates multiple methods and disciplines. The multidisciplinary team includes experts in sensory perception, tobacco addiction, adolescent tobacco use, menthol and irritant receptor biology, nicotinic receptor biology, dopaminergic signaling in brain reward pathways, human behavioral pharmacology, assay and clinical pharmacokinetics of drugs of abuse, analytical chemistry, health economics and decision-making science, and tobacco regulation. In addition, the center trains scientists, and provides pilot funding to stimulate research related to tobacco regulatory science. Message to e-cigarette researchers E-cigarette researchers: You may need to get FDA approval for the use of the e-cigarette as an investigational tobacco product. The FDA outlines, the proposed requirements for obtaining an ITP for all federally funded e-cigarette research. If you have any further questions please contact us. Get Involved Learn how you can participate in research studies sponsored by Yale TCORS investigators. Please contact the Center's office at 203-974-7591 or email tcors@yale.edu for more information. Latest TCORS News May 20, 2022 Warning! Nicotine Poses Special Risks to TeensSource: Science News for Students Read more May 19, 2022 Your Lungs: A User’s GuideSource: Yale Medicine Read more May 05, 2022 YSM Faculty Stand United For Ukraine Read more April 19, 2022 The Blavatnik Fund for Innovation at Yale Awards Over $3 Million in Accelerator Funding to Develop 12 New Therapeutic and Digital Health ProductsSource: Yale Ventures Read more April 17, 2022 Is Covid More Dangerous Than Driving? How Scientists Are Parsing Covid RisksSource: The New York Times Read more More News TCORS People Research Trainees Pilot Program Publications News Resources Maps & Directions Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook Library & Reference © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 02/10/2020 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [11,70,56,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-article-components-ArticleWidget","features-navigation-components-sidebar-navigation-SidebarNavigation","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [7,14,72,58,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-article-components-ArticleWidget","features-navigation-components-sidebar-navigation-SidebarNavigation","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}