Skip to Main Content History of Medicine History of Medicine Yale School of MedicineHistory of Medicine Education People Events Resources Section of the History of Medicine The Section of the History of Medicine is a freestanding unit in the Yale University School of Medicine engaged with research and teaching in the history of medicine, the life sciences, and public health. In addition to instruction for medical students, including mentoring M.D. theses, the faculty collaborates with colleagues in the History Department, in the Program in the History of Science and Medicine, which offers graduate programs leading to the M.A., Ph.D., and combined M.D./Ph.D. degrees and an undergraduate major in the History of Science/History of Medicine. The Section contributes to the Program's colloquia, and Distinguished Annual Lectures, workshops, and symposia in medical history. Through research and teaching, the faculty seeks to understand medical ideas, practices, and institutions in their broad social and cultural contexts, and to provide intellectual tools to engage with the challenges faced by contemporary medicine. Department News Select Today Previous 7 Days Previous 30 Days Select Dates May 17, 2022 Mental Illness is Not in Your Head Decades of biological research haven’t improved diagnosis or treatment. We should look to society, not to the brain. Marco Ramos, MD/PhD, Psychiatry Resident and Lecturer in the History of MedicineSource: Boston Review Read more March 30, 2022 Hippocratic Vows: The Doctor’s Wife and the History of American Medicine, with Kelly O'Donnell, PhD, Hosted by The Beaumont Medical Club Friday, April 8th at 5:00 PM via Zoom Read more March 18, 2022 The Elias E. Manuelidis Lecture: Making the Personal Professional and Political, and the Need for History in Medicine with Nathan Ha, MD, PhD Monday, March 28th at 4:30 PM via Zoom Read more March 08, 2022 Naomi Rogers to Speak on Women, Feminism, and American Medicine, March 18th at 3:00 PM Join the Working Women’s Network for a Women’s History Month discussion on women, feminism, and American medicine with guest speaker Naomi Rogers, Ph.D. She will discuss the feminist women’s health movement, and how it empowered women’s knowledge, regarding their health and battle against paternalistic and oppressive practices within healthcare systems.Source: Working Women's Network Read more December 02, 2021 Unjust Treatment Zoe Adams explores the troubled history of New York’s methadone clinics, and questions whether one particular form of healing needs its own separate space in the first place.Source: Urban Omnibus Read more September 28, 2021 How Indigenous scientists are using biomedical research to seek 'genomic justice' For decades, non-Indigenous scientists have taken samples from Indigenous people for future studies, often without clear consent. But a new generation of Indigenous scientists is taking biomedical research in a new direction – asking important questions about who controls the research process and the data derived from it. Professor Joanna Radin and HSHM alum Tess Lanzarotta join the discussion about data equity and how Indigenous scientists are using biomedical research to seek 'genomic justice'.Source: CBC.CA Read more September 20, 2021 Elias E. Manuelidis Memorial Fund Research Grant Opportunity The Section of the History of Medicine at the Yale School of Medicine invites applications for the Elias E. Manuelidis Memorial Fund Research Grant. This is a program, open to all Yale students, to support research in the history of medicine with an emphasis on issues of discrimination and social justice. Please find details for the 2021-2022 opportunity below. Application submission deadline is October 15, 2021. Read more September 06, 2021 A historian of medical futures looks back Joanna Radin, professor of the history of medicine, has written about how people in the past imagined the life-changing potential of medicine. Read more August 12, 2021 HSHM/SHEA Lecture Dates The History of Science and Medicine in partnership with SHEA (STEM and Health Equity Advocates) at Yale announce their Fall 2021 Lecture series dates and speakers. Read more August 06, 2021 How Will the Pandemic End? The Science of Past Outbreaks Offers Clues The 1918 flu hit in the throes of World War I, and as the fighting ended, there was a “feeling of wanting to put that whole decade to bed, and to embrace a new future,” says Naomi Rogers, professor of the history of medicine and of history at Yale University.Source: National Geographic Read more 333 Cedar Street Sterling Hall of Medicine New Haven, CT 06520 Maps & Directions 1 Event you could attend in June 2022 Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 02/18/2022 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [4,77,11,8,73,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-Banner","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-article-components-news-news-main-list-NewsMainListContainer","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [5,79,7,14,10,75,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-Banner","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-article-components-news-news-main-list-NewsMainListContainer","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}