skip to main content About Leadership Accreditation Academic Departments Administrative Offices Campuses Calendar Committees Directory History Professionalism News Physical Location Health Professions Education Building 8447 Riverside Pkwy Bryan, TX 77807 Education Academic Departments Administrative Offices Current Student Resources Faculty Support Faculty Listing Graduate Studies Medical Education Admissions Degrees & Programs Early Assurance MD Admissions MD/PhD Admissions PhD Admissions Education for Healthcare Professionals Research Research Focus Areas Research Funding Support & Resources Postdoctoral Affairs Research Excellence Awards Academic Departments Core Facilities Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Research Highlights Research Calendar Clinical Clinical Learning Resource Center Patient Care Community Diversity Rapport Society Student Organizations Mini Medical School Alumni COVID-19 Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. About Leadership Accreditation Campuses Calendar Directory Academic Departments Administrative Offices History Professionalism News Education Current Student Resources Academic Departments Faculty Support Graduate Studies Medical Education Admissions Degrees & Programs Early Assurance MD Admissions PhD Admissions MD/PhD Admissions EDHP Research Research Focus Areas Research Funding Support & Resources Postdoctoral Affairs Research Excellence Awards Academic Departments Core Facilities Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Research Calendar Research Highlights Clinical Clinical Learning Resource Center Patient Care Community Diversity Rapport Society Student Organizations Mini Medical School Alumni COVID-19 Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences Home Department of Psychiatry Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences Research Education and Training Clinical Faculty and Staff Telebehavioral Care Upcoming and Important Events Donate About The Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences is committed to providing state of the art, evidence-based psychiatric and psychological care, education, and research for the Brazos Valley and the central Texas community. The Department’s mental health clinicians and trainees provide exceptional mental health care and conduct cutting edge research to discover and treat the underlying biological, psychological and social/environmental causes of mental illness and brain diseases. We provide leadership in psychiatric treatment, education, research, and training to serve the needs of the community. The department is actively involved in research in the area of mental health disorders. Opportunities to participate may be available. Do you need help? If you are in a crisis situation or medical emergency, call 911. National Suicide Prevention Line https://suicidepreventionlifeline.org 1-800-273-8255 National Drug Helpline https://drughelpline.org 1-844-289-0879 Local Crisis Hotline 1-888-522-8262 Upcoming and Important Events None at this time. Clinical The Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences is currently treating patients through an outpatient psychiatry clinic and telebehavioral care network. The department has expertise in providing high-quality mental health services through in person visits and via long-distance technology, engaging rural communities in order to reduce mental health disparities. Through the upcoming Texas A&M Interprofessional Practice Plan, psychiatric and mental health services will improve behavioral health access, the health of Texas citizens and Texas A&M University students. View More Research The Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences advances our understanding of the brain-behavioral processes underlying psychiatric disorders and human behavior by engaging in basic and applied neuroscience and psychological research. View More Education & Training The Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences educates and trains the next generation of medical professionals, including medical students, psychiatric residents, and trainees in allied disciplines. Our participation in medical school education plays an integral role in offering the next generation of physicians in-depth understanding of biobehavioral aspects of medical care rooted in foundational knowledge of clinical neuroscience. Our residency program is committed to educating a next generation of physician-scientists responsible for the delivery of highest quality psychiatric care as well as neuroscience research in Texas. Our training program for allied disciplines (social work, psychology, nursing, physician assistants) embodies our commitment to multidisciplinary care as a key principle in behavioral health delivery. View More Faculty & Staff Meet our dedicated team members. View More Telebehavioral Care Program Texas A&M Telebehavioral Care provides the behavioral health expertise of Texas A&M College of Medicine to patients when and where they need it. Behavioral health care is the essential piece of the puzzle to fill the gap in better patient health outcomes. Appointments are conducted using secure videoconference technology to deliver mental health care services almost anywhere in Texas. Patients can meet with their provider on the phone, on mobile devices, in resource hubs provided in their areas, or in their own health providers’ clinical space. View More Community Outreach Learn more about Community Outreach with the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences View More Donate With your generous support, you become our partner in providing mental health treatment and educating the future leaders in behavioral health. Join us in creating opportunities for expanded community outreach and in conducting innovative research to understand how to better identify and treat mental illness. Learn More Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked in RSS YouTube Back to top Institution Health Science Center Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Calendars Contact Us Diversity Emergency Information Emergency Plans Maps & Parking Press & Media Title IX Clery Annual Reports Resources Directory Facilities Work Request Howdy Portal Information Technology Intranet Libraries Mental Health Resources Policies Webmail Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility