Skip to Main Content Yale Center for Health & Learning Games Yale Center for Health & Learning Games Yale School of MedicineInternal Medicine General Internal MedicineYale Center for Health & Learning Games Our Labs Our Programs Our Team Contact Us "Creative play is like a spring that bubbles up from deep within a child." -Joan Almon "People tend to forget that play is serious." -David Hockney "Children learn as they play. Most importantly, in play children learn how to learn." -O. Fred Donaldson "Work and play are words used to describe the same thing under differing conditions." -Mark Twain "Children at play are not playing about. Their games should be seen as their most serious minded activity." -Michel de Montaigne "What we play is life." -Louis Armstrong "Play is our brain's favorite way of learning." -Diane Ackerman "Letting your mind play is the best way to solve problems." -Bill Watterson "Play is the beginning of knowledge." -George Dorsey "Play is often talked about as if it were a relief from serious learning. But for children play is serious learning. Play is really the work of childhood." -Fred Rogers The Yale Center for Health & Learning Games develops and evaluates videogame-based interventions with the goal of reducing risk and promoting healthy behaviors, social good and education. Our multidisciplinary team integrates established behavioral change theories into our interventions to create healthier, safer lives for our players. We aim to foster risk awareness, well being, and social intelligence with high levels of engagement, fidelity, and impact. We use rigorous scientific methods and metrics to develop and evaluate our videogame technology. The Yale Center for Health & Learning Games is home to a growing family of labs, including the play2PREVENT and play4REAL Labs, along with community educational outreach programs, such as our ForAGirl program. The Center is able to forge partnerships across academic, technological, and creative fields through collaborations with researchers, scientists, and commercial game developers. We also focus on community and work closely with educators, parents, and teens to develop and rigorously test our targeted game interventions for risk reduction and prevention. Our mission is to serve as a resource for schools, youth programs, teens, parents, and communities and work together towards the common goal of improving and securing the futures of youth and young adults. We strive to do this by developing and evaluating game interventions to transform health and learning behaviors and through offering innovative and engaging educational programs. Latest News April 11, 2022 How a Korean Boy Band Saved My DaughterSource: Science Direct Read more February 17, 2022 Feeling Invisible & Unheard: The Impact of Racist Stereotypes on Black Teenage Girls Read more January 02, 2022 InvestiDate: A Video Game Empowering Black Teens to Prioritize Their Health Read more More News Twitter Feed @play2PREVENTToday is #termTuesday at the play2PREVENT Lab! Our term for today is Naloxone. More about Naloxone: - It can be injected into the muscle, skin or veins, or given as a nasal spray - It is important to receive training on how to use Naloxone - Remember to call 911 Follow us! https://t.co/Psa0Idiujg20 HOURS AGO @play2PREVENT#factFriday! What are counterfeit pills? - Illegal pills created by criminal drug networks that are falsely marketed as prescription pills - These pills contain different ingredients that can be extremely harmful, such as fentanyl Visit https://t.co/iIMgHZdf5s to learn more! https://t.co/3kFiDh1Kbc5 DAYS AGO Follow @play2PREVENT 367 Cedar Street New Haven, CT 06510-3222 Maps & Directions 6 Events you could attend in June 2022 Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 09/24/2019 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [1,78,11,20,70,2,64,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-BannerCarousel","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","common-components-images-Photo","modules-article-components-ArticleWidget","features-social-media-components-TwitterFeed","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [2,80,7,14,23,72,3,66,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-BannerCarousel","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","common-components-images-Photo","modules-article-components-ArticleWidget","features-social-media-components-TwitterFeed","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}