Skip to Main Content About YSM Education Research Patient Care Diversity News Information for... Popular Links Search 703 results Refine People (17007) Web Pages (16429) Documents (9059) News (39409) top stories Source YSM/YSPH News (359) Yale News (147) External (197) Medicine@Yale (0) Yale Medicine Magazine (0) Organization Yale School of Medicine Events (22957) Media (3168) Clinical Trials (484) Clear Search Showing 703 results in 'News' News top stories YSM/YSPH News Yale News External Yale School of Medicine News Study Empowers Long COVID Patients as They Struggle to Find Relief Yale researchers Akiko Iwasaki, PhD, and Harlan Krumholz, MD, are striving to solve the mysteries of long COVID, and to provide a compassionate voice for those feeling isolated and ignored by the medical community. 31 May 2022 News Portrait of Childhood Education Pioneer James Comer Unveiled at Yale For more than 50 years, Comer’s pioneering work has revolutionized school systems and lifted up their most vulnerable children. The portrait honors his commitment to children, child development, and education, and also celebrates his position as the first African American tenured professor at the university. 27 May 2022 News The Molecular Machinery That Delivers Metabolites to Mitochondria When we eat and then digest a meal, the nutrients and other useful components in the food are broken down—or metabolized—and ultimately make their way to cells throughout the body. Hongying Shen, PhD, and her lab have identified the molecular machinery through which many of the metabolites reach inside the mitochondria in cells. 11 May 2022 News Discovering a Mysterious Estrogen’s Important Role in Pregnancy When a woman becomes pregnant, her levels of estriol, one of the three common estrogens that are nearly undetectable before conception, skyrocket. However, scientists never knew what this hormone does or why levels of it build as they do. Now, Yale researchers have discovered that estriol plays an extremely important role in shaping the future of offspring. 3 May 2022 News How Effects on the Brain Can Produce Long COVID COVID-19 may be primarily a respiratory illness, but its reach extends far beyond the lungs, with an impact that includes the brain. The neurologic and psychiatric complications of COVID-19 are incredibly diverse and sometimes persist long after patients recover from their initial infections. 26 Apr 2022 News New Yale Center Will Focus on Infection and Immunity The center will have an ambitious goal: to produce better diagnoses, treatments, and ultimately cures for an array of diseases. It will also work toward vaccine development, based on Iwasaki’s pioneering work showing that vaccines directed toward the mucosa might provide better protection than systemic vaccination. 21 Apr 2022 News Portable MRIs Almost as Effective as Standard MRIs in Detecting Strokes “This is the first systematic evidence you can detect ischemic strokes using portable, bedside devices,” said Kevin Sheth, a professor of neurology and neurosurgery at Yale School of Medicine and co-corresponding author of the study.Source: YaleNews 20 Apr 2022 News Colón-Ramos Awarded Germany’s Humboldt Prize Daniel Colón-Ramos, the Dorys McConnell Duberg Professor of Neuroscience and Cell Biology at Yale, has been awarded the Humboldt Prize for his lab’s work in describing fundamental aspects of the cell biology of synapses and behavior, the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation announced April 13.Source: YaleNews 14 Apr 2022 News Scientists Uncover Key Regulator of Body Weight Yale scientists have discovered that a protein known as augmentor-alpha regulates body weight in mice, an insight that could lead to new treatments for metabolic disorders.Source: YaleNews 11 Apr 2022 News Learning Which Genetic Changes Predict Greatest Risk of Cancer Death “This is the first time that we have had a comprehensive understanding of the genetic differences between fatal and relatively harmless human cancers across several dozen cancer types,” says co-author Jason Sheltzer, PhD. 11 Apr 2022 News Margaret McGovern, MD, PhD, Appointed YSM Deputy Dean and CEO of Yale Medicine McGovern will play an essential role in the development of clinical strategy for the School of Medicine at an important juncture in the relationship between YSM and Yale New Haven Health System. She will provide strategic counsel and otherwise work to realize YSM’s vision for its clinical enterprise. 5 Apr 2022 News How Bacteria Swim: Yale Researchers Discover New Mechanisms How bacteria move around, survive, and cause infection in the body has long fascinated scientists, but understanding of the mechanisms involved is incomplete. Now, for the first time, with cryo-EM tomography, Yale researchers have visualized key elements of a ring structure that stabilizes the motor of the flagellum and enhances bacterial movement. 31 Mar 2022 News Treating Diabetes Without Drugs? Novel Non-pharmacologic Treatments on the Horizon The goal of current studies is to provide a long-lasting treatment for people with type 2 diabetes to alleviate and potentially reverse the disease. 31 Mar 2022 News Yale Researchers Continue to Unravel the Mystery of Metformin “Our research not only discovered a new mechanism of metformin, but also identified potential therapeutic molecular targets,” says principal investigator Yingqin Huang, MD, PhD. 28 Mar 2022 News Unique Yale Master's Program Will Combine Surgery and Engineering Orthopaedic surgery requires a close partnership among surgeons and engineers. While surgeons have the expertise in performing operations, engineers possess important technological skills in 3D planning. The new master's program will combine the two disciplines. 23 Mar 2022 News A Beautiful Day to Be Matched Shouts of joy. Group hugs. Champagne popping. 21 Mar 2022 News Revealing Communications Between Brain and Body “This is the first time we actually know how different body signals are being represented through the vagal interoception system to the brain in a very precise and accurate manner,” says co-senior investigator Rui Chang, PhD. “We know that the brain can very precisely discriminate signals, but what is the biological reason for that discrimination?” 16 Mar 2022 News Yale Researchers May Have Unlocked the Blood-brain Barrier A team led by Anne Eichmann, PhD, has developed an antibody as a tool for temporarily opening the blood-brain barrier, allowing for the delivery of important drugs to the brain. 15 Mar 2022 News Scientists ‘Supercharge’ Cancer-fighting T Cells The discovery can advance CAR-T cell therapy, which harnesses the immune response of T cells to cancers by introducing tumor-detecting molecules into the cells.Source: YaleNews 10 Mar 2022 News Beyond Clotting: Growing Science Reveals Extensive Role of Platelets A physician-scientist, John Hwa, MD, PhD, hopes to develop a bridge between the rapidly evolving science of platelets and clinical practice. 9 Mar 2022 333 Cedar Street New Haven, CT 06510 Maps & Directions Pioneering Education, Patient Care& Research Support Us 274 Events you could attend in June 2022 Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook Library & Reference © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 08/09/2019 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [8,104,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-search-components-global-search-GlobalSearchContainer","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [10,15,106,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-search-components-global-search-GlobalSearchContainer","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}