Skip to main content NewsmyOKSTATEDirectoryQuicklinks / Search Close Search Search this site Search Search this site All of Oklahoma State University DirectoryA-Z Site Index Quicklinks Logins myOKSTATEEmailO-Key Account Departments A to Z DepartmentLibraryProject ECHOResidency & FellowshipsSecurityWellness Academics BookstoreBursarCollege of Osteopathic MedicineCOM at Cherokee NationGraduate ProgramsRegistrar Trending Now COVID-19 FAQLibraryProject ECHO COVID-19 Update Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Center for Health Sciences Main Menu In this section Academics COMCollege of Osteopathic Medicine GRADUATE PROGRAMSMaster's & Doctorate Programs RESIDENCY & FELLOWSHIPSEducating, Training & More Patient Care VETERANS HOSPITAL IN TULSAServing those who have served CLINICSOSU Medicine Clinics TELEHEALTHThe State's Largest Telemedicine Network Research RESEARCHFaculty/Student Research & Research Profiles MEDICAL LIBRARYSearch for Books, Articles & More CENTERS OF EXCELLENCEAddressing Current & Emerging Health Concerns Programs PROJECT ECHOExtension for Community Health Outcomes HEALTH ACCESS NETWORKOSU Health Access Network Community CMEContinuing Medical Education STUDENT LIFEA Supportive, Caring Environment OUTREACH & COMMUNITYAlumni | K – 12 Students & Educators | Community Diversity AIMSOffice of American Indians in Medicine and Science DIVERSITYOffice of Diversity, Equality, and Inclusion About Us EVENTSEvents & Activities ABOUTLearn more about OSU-CHS FACULTY SENATEWorking with leadership to create and carry out educational policies NewsmyOKSTATEDirectory Home About Community Conference and Event Services Conference and Event Services Rental Rates: Facilities at the OSU Center for Health Sciences may be rented for up to 4 hours (half-day) or up to 8 hours (full-day). We can assist with the coordination of security, housekeeping and technical support personnel for your event. Venue Rental Rates 2021 Host your next event at OSU Center for Health Sciences OSU Center for Health Sciences offers a wide range of rooms for your next meeting, conference or event. We offer the rental of several of our facilities including classrooms, conference rooms and active learning rooms in the new A.R. and Marylouise Tandy Medical Academic Building as well as throughout our beautiful campus. We are conveniently located near downtown Tulsa with easy access to Highway 75 and the Broken Arrow Expressway. Venues at OSU Center for Health Sciences may be rented for up to 4 hours (half-day) or up to 8 hours (full-day). We can assist with the coordination of security, housekeeping and technical support personnel for your event. For more information about renting a venue for your next meeting or event, please submit an inquiry or call our Event Office at 918-561-1219. Tandy Conference Center Seating for 250-300 people Great for conferences, dinners, receptions and meetings Audio/visual equipment including projector screens Access to outdoor balconies with panoramic views Convenient parking in adjacent parking garage Inquiry Form Lecture Halls Classroom-style tiered setting for 150-170 people State-of-the-art audio/visual equipment 3 lecture halls available for rental Located in the A.R. and Marylouise Tandy Medical Academic Building and CAME Building Inquiry Form Active Learning Rooms Seating for 30-50 people Layout allows for interactive teaching and learning Perfect for breakout sessions Fully-equipped with audio/visual Located in the A.R. and Marylouise Tandy Medical Academic Building Inquiry Form Classrooms, Meeting and Conference Rooms 6 rooms available with seating for 8-125 people Flexible seating layouts Fully-equipped with audio/visual Half or full-day rental options Inquiry Form Clinical Skills and Simulation Center Our Clinical Skills and Simulation Center is located on the first and second floors of the A.R. and Marylouise Tandy Medical Academic Building and is perfect for healthcare training. Our center has been used for trainings for EMSA, regional hospitals, nurses, and residents. Our Hospital Simulation Center is equipped with state of the art technology and has an Emergency Room, Operating Room, Labor and Delivery, and Intensive Care Unit. There is also an ambulance bay perfect for training. The Surgical Simulation Suite houses our da Vinci Robotic Surgical simulator, as well as numerous Simbionix trainers. Conveniently located on the second floor of the Tandy Medical Academic Building are 18 exam rooms setup as they would be in a clinic setting, and a large clinical skills lab More Information Area Hotel Accomodations Aloft Tulsa Downtown 200 Civic Center Tulsa, OK 74103 (918) 947-8200 OSU Center for Health Sciences Rate: $89 To book a room using our state rate, please follow the below instructions. Visit their website here Choose your dates Check the SET/Corporate Account Option Enter Number 67253 You will see OSU Center for Health Sciences on your confirmation page Why is it important? Dolorum ut porro maiores autem quae. Ratione repudiandae explicabo expedita nobis illo amet. Blanditiis sequi ea consequatur saepe. Doubletree By Hilton DoubleTree by Hilton Hotel Tulsa Downtown 616 W. 7th St. Tulsa, OK 74127 (918) 587-8000 (866) 715-0006 To book a room using our state rate, please follow the below instructions Visit their website here Choose your dates Holiday Inn Tulsa Holiday Inn Tulsa City Center 17 W. 7th St. Tulsa, OK 74119 (918) 585-5898 OSU Center for Health Science Rate: $95 To book a room using our state rate, please follow the below instructions Visit their website here Click the “More Options” Enter the Corporate ID as 100198655 Holiday Inn Express & Suites Tahlequah 2142 Mahaney Ave Tahlequah, OK 74464 (918) 506-4545 Visit Holiday Inn Express & Suites Tahlequah website State Rate: $96 (price may vary year-to-year) To book using the state rate, please contact Traci Huggins at gmtok@stayhiexpress.com. Rodeway Inn 3296 S Muskogee Ave Tahlequah, OK 74464 (918) 458-1818 State Rate: 10% off regular price To book using the state rate, please visit the Rodeway Inn website or call (918) 458-1818. Local Dining Tulsa has a wide range of restaurants to enjoy while you’re visiting the area. http://www.visittulsa.com/restaurants/. Community Back To Top Back To Top CampusesUniversity LinksResourcesStudentsDepartments A to ZmyOKSTATEDirectoryOSU Medical CenterRooms OSU Center for Health Sciences 1111 W. 17 Street Tulsa Campus Tulsa, OK 74107 (map) (918) 582-1972 | Contact Us OSU-COM at Cherokee Nation 19500 E Ross St Tahlequah Campus Tahlequah, OK 74464 (map) (918) 525-6191 | Contact Us Follow US NewsEventsPlan an Event Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Oklahoma State University Campus & Parking MapsAll OSU InstitutionsCareers @ OSUHire OSU Grads© Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks MENUCLOSE ©