Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events For You Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents Give Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University Site Navigation About Mission, Vision and Values Departments Strategic Plan Leadership and Governance Affiliated Hospitals History Accreditation Clery Act Maps and Directions Education Degree Programs Residency Programs Fellowship Programs Faculty Development Continuing Medical Education Visiting Medical Student Programs International Exchange Programs Research Medicine Today Seminar Series Brown Institute for Translational Science Centers, Institutes, and Programs Doing Research at Brown Find a Researcher Innovation & Industry Engagement Library Resources Decoding Disparities Lecture Series Admission & Aid Medical and Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Notice of Nondiscrimination Student Life Student Services Life in Providence Student Groups Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Dashboard Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Programs and Initiatives Search Search Menu Date March 19, 2021 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email ANNOUNCEMENT | Interim Associate Dean for Medical Education Dear Warren Alpert Medical School Community, We are writing to inform you that Sarita Warrier, MD, FACP, has been appointed interim associate dean for medical education at The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Dr. Warrier serves as Assistant Dean for Medical Education, directing the second-year curriculum and the Longitudinal Integrated Clerkship for the Primary Care – Population Medicine Program, and is an active USMLE Step 1 advisor. She will also take on the role of oversight of students doing independent studies in addition to serving as a faculty mentor for students pursuing the Academic Scholars Program. She has been very engaged with all aspects of the Office of Medical Education and will work with the other deans and staff, as well as others throughout the medical school, to ensure that all medical student needs are met during this transition period. Dr. Roxanne Vrees, Associate Dean for Student Affairs, continues to oversee all aspects of student affairs, the Mary B. Arnold Mentoring Program, and career advising. She will take on the additional role of monitoring the process for students doing away rotations, the visiting student program, and oversight of Records and Registration. The Supplemental Offer and Acceptance Program, or SOAP, which Dr. Vrees coordinates as part of her oversight of the residency match, is now complete. We are looking forward to a successful Match Day celebration tomorrow. In addition, Dr. Warrier, Dr. Vrees, and Assistant Dean for Medical Education Dr. Luba Dumenco have all taken on additional students for Step 1 advising alongside the Mary B. Arnold mentors. We can assure you that all students will have the advising support that they need during this critical time. In our roles as Senior Associate Deans, we will be co-chairing the transition planning process and will communicate developments in the transition plan for the Office of Medical Education frequently over the next few weeks. Please do not hesitate to reach out to us if you have specific questions. Sincerely, Allan R. Tunkel, MD, PhD Michele G. Cyr, MD Senior Associate Dean for Senior Associate Dean for Medical Education Academic Affairs Brown University Providence RI 02903 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility Clery Act The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University For You Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation About Mission, Vision and Values Departments Strategic Plan Leadership and Governance Affiliated Hospitals History Accreditation Clery Act Maps and Directions Education Degree Programs Residency Programs Fellowship Programs Faculty Development Continuing Medical Education Visiting Medical Student Programs International Exchange Programs Research Medicine Today Seminar Series Brown Institute for Translational Science Centers, Institutes, and Programs Doing Research at Brown Find a Researcher Innovation & Industry Engagement Library Resources Decoding Disparities Lecture Series Admission & Aid Medical and Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Notice of Nondiscrimination Student Life Student Services Life in Providence Student Groups Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Dashboard Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Programs and Initiatives Topics Biomed Medical School Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events For You Give This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search ANNOUNCEMENT | Interim Associate Dean for Medical Education Open details for ANNOUNCEMENT | Interim Associate Dean for Medical Education Bookmark this Page