Skip to Main Content Yale Stem Cell Center Yale Stem Cell Center Yale School of MedicineYale Stem Cell Center About Faculty COVID-19 Research Education News Events Core Services Publications Donations Jason Thomson, Research Associate at Yale Stem Cell Center is a prime example of "How Medical Research Is Boosting Connecticut’s Economy" Sharon Lin, Diane Krause, Stephanie Massaro, and Crew Smith discussing recent lab results Pumilio1 protein in human embryonic stem cells Jun Lu and Dan Li operating a robot to do a stem cell screen Kun-Yong Kim and In-Hyun Park doing neural differentiation to make an in vitro disease model. Haifan Lin's Lab (Left to Right): Sean Christensen, Haifan Lin, Laurel Lorenz and student discuss stem cell RNA-mediated epigenetic programming. Photo Credit, Michael Marsland. Expression of transcriptional factor Foxa2 in gastrulation stage embryos A plate of human embryonic stem cells growing in culture. Jee-Hee Kim, Andrew Xiao, Steven Reilly, and Tao Wu discussing data. Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells (iPSCs) Ping-Xia Zhang picking cell colonies at the microscope Brain organoids generated from human embryonic stem cells. Photo credit: Yangfei Xiang, Ph.D. Welcome to Yale Stem Cell Center! The mission of the Yale Stem Cell Center is to advance our understanding of stem cell biology and to harness its potential to improve human health. Our goals: Enrich basic understanding of stem and progenitor cells. Establish interdisciplinary, collaborations to develop stem cell therapies, and translate discoveries to clinical trials. Address ethical and policy issues. Foster understanding and awareness of stem cell biology to the public. Yale Stem Cell Center 14th Annual Research Retreat October 27-28, 2022 Learn more about the 14th Annual Research Retreat, which will be held in person at Yale West Campus. StemConn 2021 StemCONN2021 April 1 & April 8, 2021 will be held virtually. StemConn is Connecticut's premier conference on stem cell and regenerative medicine research. See the StemConn website for program, speaker list and registration (special early bird rates available). Latest News May 26, 2022 How to Work Out When You Have Exercise-Induced AsthmaSource: Self Read more May 25, 2022 Yale-PCCSM Members Honored by American Thoracic Society Read more May 20, 2022 Single Cell Analysis Technologies Help Generate Unprecedented Maps of Disease Read more May 19, 2022 Your Lungs: A User’s GuideSource: Yale Medicine Read more May 19, 2022 A Celebration of Student Research and Faculty Mentorship Read more May 17, 2022 Professor Erica Herzog Receives Recognition Award for Scientific Accomplishments Read more More News Yale Stem Cell Center Faculty Studying COVID-19 Find out more Announcing the Recipients of the Lo Graduate Fellowship The Stem Cell Center is proud to announce the recipients of Yale Stem Cell Center’s most prestigious graduate award, the Lo Graduate Fellowship: Kimberly Luttik Yuqi Wang Read more about the Lo Fellowship Yale Stem Cell Center PO Box 208073 New Haven, CT 06520 Maps & Directions 9 Events you could attend in June 2022 Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 02/21/2022 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [1,78,11,70,4,77,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-BannerCarousel","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-article-components-ArticleWidget","modules-banners-components-Banner","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [2,80,7,14,72,5,79,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-BannerCarousel","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-article-components-ArticleWidget","modules-banners-components-Banner","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}