Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Med School News Request Info Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Apply Now Contact Us Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Veteran Affairs Visitors Whom to Refer Staff Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Education Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Aging Studies PhD Graduate Medical Education Undergraduate Medical Education Center for Continuing Education (CME) About Us Office of Multicultural Affairs Employee's COVID-19 Information & Guidelines TUSOM Companion App Faculty Affairs Professionalism Program Administration Wellness ~ Get Help LCME Accreditation Mission, Vision, Core Values Teaching Facilities & Hospitals Dean's Open Office Hours School of Medicine Guiding Principles Student Affairs Residency Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Statement Mission and Leadership Accreditation and ACGME Updates Leadership Updates Report A Concern Living in New Orleans Resources for Directors & Coordinators Resources for Residents & Fellows Additional GME Resources TUSOM Companion App Graduate Medical Education Committee Contact Us Resident/Fellow COVID-19 Information GME Policies & Procedures Residency & Fellowship Programs Tulane Resident and Fellow Congress (TRFC) Professionalism Applicant Information Admissions MD Admissions Contact Us Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Departments Clinical Sciences Centers & Institutes Basic Sciences Research Tulane Doctors Our Doctors Our Providers Patient Resources Cancer & Treatment Childhood Cancer & Prevention Clinic Contact Us Contact Us Driving Directions-Maps Free Prostate Cancer Screenings Lodging Neurology Clinic Neurosurgery Clinic Our Locations Our Locations Programs Support Services Tulane Center for Clinical Neurosciences ~ Clinic ~ Services Education About Us Student Affairs Residency Admissions Departments Research Tulane Doctors Apply Give to Med School News Request Info Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Information For... Home / Stacy Drury, MD, PhD Stacy Drury, MD, PhD Remigio Gonzalez MD Endowed Professorship of Child Psychiatry Associate Professor, Psychiatry; Vice Chair of Research, Department of Pediatrics sdrury@tulane.edu 504-988-1438 School of Medicine Education University of Virginia , B.A, 1993, Religious Studies and Biology University of Michigan , M.S. 1996, Human Genetics Louisiana State University Health Science Center , Ph.D. 2000, Genetics and Biometry Louisiana State University Health Science Center , 2002, M.D. Tulane School of Medicine, Residency in General Psychiatry, 2002-2005. Tulane School of Medicine, Residency in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, 2005-2007 Biography Dr. Drury explores the interaction of genetic and epigenetic factors with early experience and how this interaction shapes neurodevelopment and long-term outcomes in children. Her clinical and translational research focuses on improving outcomes in at-risk children by providing an enhanced understanding of the interaction between early life experiences, the stress response systems, and neurodevelopment. She is the director of the Behavioral and Neurodevelopmental Genetics Laboratory (BANGL). The laboratory includes both a molecular genetics basic science "wet" laboratory and translational studies exploring the impact of early life stress on neurocognitive function and the stress response system in collaboration with both the Department of Pediatrics (Kanter) and the Department of Community Health Science (Theall). Current ongoing NIH- funded research projects include studies examining the association between telomere length and other epigenetic markers and neurodevelopment in a longitudinal study of children with a history of institutional care. She is also exploring, in collaboration with the Department of Community Health Sciences the use of telomere length as a marker of the cumulative exposure to early adversity in community recruited children. The overall goal of her research is to understand how early life stress and adversity "gets under the skin" and alters neurodevelopmental trajectories creating a lasting vulnerability to a range of psychological and medical negative health outcomes. Research positions and rotations for graduate and undergraduate students are currently available. If interested please contact Dr. Drury. Current Funding: 2K12HD043451-06 NIH (BIRCWH Fellow) 10/1/2012-9/30/2014 R01ES020447-01: NIEHS (Theall) 09/01/11-08/31/13 R21 MH094688-01: NIMH (Drury) 7/1/11-6/31/13 Years at Tulane: Since 2002 Publications Click Here For Dr. Drury's PubMed Publications Research Research/Academic Interests: The interaction between early life stressors and genetic and epigenetic factors and their influence on child neurodevelopment, physiology, and health outcomes. Tulane Cancer Center Contributing Member Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University School of Medicine 1430 Tulane Avenue New Orleans, LA 70112 Clinics: 504-988-5800 or 1-800-588-5800 Click Below to Contact School of Medicine: Admissions Administration Tulane Doctors for appointments Maps & Directions TMedWeb Administration Departments & Centers Room Reservations Professionalism/ Environment of Learning GDPR Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices News MAP: HSC Campus Give to School of Medicine Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Annual Doty Compassion Lecture Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University