RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Category: "Research" Browsing: Research Cool Tool May 2022 0 A Breathalyzer for COVID? Researchers develop an RNA-based breath test to detect SARS-CoV-2. Read More Faculty May 2022 0 Many Vets Face Food Insecurity People of color, women, and those with health conditions are among at the highest risk. Read More Research May 2022 0 Alzheimer’s Prevention, From the Pulpit Faith leaders help recruit people of color for a new nationwide study. Read More Faculty May 2022 0 Vaccine Doesn’t Shield Some Cancer Patients Study of vaccinated cancer patients with breakthrough COVID-19 shows 13% mortality rate. Read More Faculty May 2022 0 When All Else Fails New technologies prevent drug-resistant pathogens from taking root. Read More Faculty May 2022 0 Analyzing DNA More Equitably New methods allow for a better understanding of how genetic conditions affect different populations. Read More Faculty March 2022 0 Team Explores Alzheimer’s Cause, Treatment Led by Brown, a multi-university effort will build on recent discoveries about the mechanisms of aging. Read More News February 2022 0 Study Reveals Medicaid Disparities In managed care plans, minority group members report lesser care than white enrollees. Read More News February 2022 0 Into the (Extracellular) Matrix Researchers develop new model to investigate fibrosis treatments without use of animals. Read More News January 2022 0 Empathy, Brain Science Fuel Addiction Research Brown senior studies the neurobiological underpinnings of alcohol and substance abuse disorders with the goal of enabling more effective treatments. Read More News January 2022 0 A More Inclusive Approach to Alzheimer’s Research Investigators partner with faith-based leaders in Providence to increase participation of Black community members in prevention studies. Read More Hospitals January 2022 0 COVID Still Risky for Cancer Patients Even those who are fully vaccinated have high rates of hospitalization and death with breakthrough infections. Read More Hospitals December 2021 0 Breath Test Detects COVID-19 ‘The Bubbler’ reverse-transcribes RNA from airborne SARS-CoV-2, researchers say. Read More News December 2021 0 $25 Million Gift Transforms Cancer Center Generous support from the Legorreta family will accelerate discovery of new treatments for patients. Read More Faculty November 2021 0 Study IDs Vets at High Risk of Food Insecurity People of color, women, and those with health conditions are most likely to experience hardship. Read More Faculty November 2021 0 Why are Elderly More Susceptible to COVID? Cellular mechanism explains behind why some are at greater risk, and may be used to protect them. Read More News October 2021 0 Rhode Island Aims to Reduce COVID-19 Disparities Renewed NIH grant helps researchers and local partners address barriers to testing and vaccination. Read More News September 2021 0 Long COVID in the Crosshairs The Medical School and School of Public Health launch an initiative to study long-term effects of COVID-19. Read More Faculty September 2021 0 Beware the ‘Molecular Parasites’ Transposons play a significant role in aging and disease, researcher says. Read More Faculty August 2021 0 An Advance in Biomedical Research Five-year, $19.9M grant to Advance-CTR will support scientists in taking their work from bench to bedside to the people of… Read More News June 2021 0 “Drowning in the Pandemic” A global EM fellow studying emergency medicine in Nepal immerses himself in the practice. Read More Faculty June 2021 0 Small State, Big Child Health Goals A long-term study engages Rhode Island families in research that may help countless children. Read More Alumni May 2021 0 Rare Blood Clots More Likely After COVID-19 Than Vaccine New report puts post-vaccine risk in perspective. Read More Faculty April 2021 0 Brown Launches Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research With $30 million in support, the center aims to accelerate the pace of development for novel treatments and cures. Read More Faculty April 2021 0 CRISPR accelerates brain research at Brown The gene editing technology can help reveal secrets of the brain’s function and role in disease. Read More 1 2 3 … 5 Next Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos