RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»News»New MD Finds Hope, Humanity Next month Sheyla Medina will begin the internal medicine residency program at the University of California San Francisco. New MD Finds Hope, Humanity 0 By Maggie Spear on May 2020 News, Students Sheyla Medina MD’20 emphasized the intersection between medicine and humanism in her Virtual Degree Conferral ceremony address. Sheyla Medina MD’20 didn’t even know she wanted to be a physician until she was in her late 20s with a bachelor’s degree already under her belt. The idea came to her while working in Laos, developing and implementing projects related to providing different types of health services, with a focus on family planning and child nutrition, to communities with little or no access to care. “I was working with a lot more health care providers than ever before, and I was energized by the dynamic nature of the work, from the micro to the macro level,” Medina says. After completing a post-baccalaureate program, she landed at The Warren Alpert Medical School, where she began to shift her work from global health toward pediatrics, a specialty in which she felt her knowledge of sexual health would be most impactful. She soon realized that she had a very good problem on her hands. “I came in bright-eyed to Brown, thinking, ‘Oh my gosh, I’m so excited to be a pediatrician,” Medina says. “And then I get to my third-year clerkship and I realized, ‘Pediatrics is amazing, but … oh, no, I love everything else just as much!’” The ability to get exposure to so many specialties, from surgical oncology to obstetrics/gynecology and, eventually, internal medicine, is what she calls the “privilege of choice”—a concept Medina doesn’t take lightly. “That privilege allows me to direct my education, direct my service to others, learn from these experiences and grow for the better,” she says. In remarks she delivered on Sunday, May 24, at the Medical School’s Virtual Degree Conferral ceremony, Medina—who was among 48 medical students who volunteered to graduate early and received their MDs in April to join the fight against COVID-19—recalled the courage, curiosity, and kindness of the medical community she calls home. Continue reading here. degree conferral MD Class of 2020 Sheyla Medina Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Students Honor Anatomy Donors and Families May 2022 0 The Rematch May 2022 0 Pathways Guide More Students to Medicine Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos