Skip to Main Content About YSM Education Research Patient Care Diversity News Information for... Popular Links Search 5130 results Refine People (17007) Web Pages (16429) Documents (9059) News (39409) featured articles Source YSM/YSPH News (2549) Yale News (1111) External (1470) Medicine@Yale (0) Yale Medicine Magazine (0) Organization Yale School of Medicine Events (22957) Media (3168) Clinical Trials (484) Clear Search Showing 5130 results in 'News' News featured articles YSM/YSPH News Yale News External Yale School of Medicine News High Cost of Cancer Care in the U.S. Doesn’t Reduce Mortality Rates While the U.S. spends twice as much on cancer care as the average high-income country, its cancer mortality rates are only slightly better than average, according to a new analysis.Source: YaleNews 27 May 2022 News COVID Vaccines Do not Impact Fertility or Pregnancy Outcomes, Study Shows Women who received mRNA vaccines against the COVID-19 virus did not produce more of an antibody that had been theorized to reduce fertility, Yale School of Medicine researchers report in a new study. In addition, the research team found pregnant mice injected with mRNA vaccines suffered no side effects and produced normal offspring,Source: YaleNews 27 May 2022 News Photo Exhibit Highlights YSM’s Response to COVID-19 Portraits of Strength captures the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic through a series of photographic portraits of health care providers, scientists, and other essential workers taken between February and October 2021. 26 May 2022 News MD Class of 2022 Graduates With Pomp and Circumstance Family, friends, faculty, and staff gathered on May 23 in Amistad Park, near the campus of Yale School of Medicine (YSM), to celebrate the 98 new graduates of the school’s MD program. 24 May 2022 News New Research May Explain Unexpected Effects of Common Painkillers Some NSAIDs prevent heart disease while others cause it; some NSAIDs have been linked to decreased incidence of colorectal cancer; and various NSAIDs can have a wide range of effects on asthma. Now, using cell cultures and mice, Yale researchers have uncovered a distinct mechanism by which a subset of NSAIDs reduce inflammation. And that mechanism may help explain some of these curious effects.Source: YaleNews 23 May 2022 News Single Cell Analysis Technologies Help Generate Unprecedented Maps of Disease Yale researchers across disciplines are using single cell technologies to profile various kinds of cells that exist together in both healthy and diseased organs and create the most detailed blueprints of diseases to date, as well as to better understand how various cells develop over time and interact with one another. 20 May 2022 News Yale Scientists Develop Precision Medicine Approach to Metabolic Therapy for Breast Cancer Scientists at Yale Cancer Center have found that patients with breast cancer and high levels of insulin in the blood may be responsive to metabolism-targeting treatments, which in turn may improve the effectiveness of subsequent chemotherapy treatments. The findings were published today in Communications Biology. 20 May 2022 News Quantitative Assay Measures Low Levels of HER2 with Renewed Accuracy Researchers at Yale Cancer Center have developed a new quantitative assay to measure the amount of HER2 protein in patients with breast cancer with increased accuracy. The improved data may provide new options for treatment for patients previously found ineligible for treatment based on traditional HER2 screening assays. The findings were published today in Laboratory Investigation. 20 May 2022 News Baby Formula Shortage: 8 Tips for Parents Yale Medicine physicians offer advice for navigating this crisis.Source: Yale Medicine 19 May 2022 News Your Lungs: A User’s Guide What you need to know to keep these vital organs healthy and functional.Source: Yale Medicine 19 May 2022 News A Celebration of Student Research and Faculty Mentorship Student Research Day honors YSM’s MD students for their research and—with the creation last year of this unique mentorship prize—pays tribute to the faculty mentors who support them. 19 May 2022 News HIV/AIDS Care at Yale Yale doctors have been caring for patients with HIV and AIDS since the first U.S. cases of what was at the time an unknown and deadly illness were reported in 1981. Over the last four decades, medical advances have transformed HIV into a chronic disease, which, if treated, barely shortens life expectancy. 18 May 2022 News Yale Researchers Compare BACTrack Skyn to Other Alcohol Monitoring Approaches Yale School of Medicine researchers recently conducted a field study of the BACTrack Skyn, the most promising new wrist-worn alcohol biosensor, and provided it to 47 heavy-drinking young adults to wear under conditions of daily living. 18 May 2022 News Yale Scientist Receives Connecticut Medal of Technology for Pioneering Work Crews was awarded the medal for his pioneering research that launched the pharmaceutical field of targeted protein degradation.Source: YaleNews 16 May 2022 News Preparing for a New Beginning Cardiac arrythmias. Managing your personal finances during residency. What do we owe our patients? Graduate oath. These are a small sample of the topics discussed in the MD Class of 2022 Capstone course, which ran from March 14 through April 1, and is a graduation requirement. The variety of subjects in the experiential course reflects its holistic approach, intended as a mix of practical clinical information students should know before starting their residencies, life skills, philosophical discussions about the practice of medicine, and reconnecting students before graduation. 16 May 2022 News When Eyes Meet, Neurons Start to Fire A new Yale study was able to chart this surprisingly widespread neuronal response in multiple brain areas when the eyes of two individuals meet and social gaze interaction happens.Source: YaleNews 13 May 2022 News Reducing Disparities in Asthma Prevalence in Black and Latino People A new study finds that an easy-to-use, patient-centered approach to managing asthma resulted in improved outcomes for Black and Latino adults. 13 May 2022 News Research Identifies Genes Responsible for Glioblastoma Cell Development A recent research paper published in Nature Communications by a team led by Yale School of Medicine researchers finds a promising way to make brain cancer cells more susceptible to chemotherapy. 13 May 2022 News Celebrating the Art, Poetry, and Prose of Yale Health Profession Students A virtual celebration of poetry, prose, and art, which Yale MD, physician assistant (PA) online, physician associate, nursing, and public health students created, took place on May 5, at the annual Program for Humanities in Medicine (PHM) Health Professions Students' Creative Medical Writing & Art Contest. 12 May 2022 News Rise of Hepatitis Cases in Children: What Parents Need to Know Medical experts say there is no need for panic. Instead, they recommend that physicians and parents educate themselves on what to watch out for.Source: Yale Medicine 12 May 2022 333 Cedar Street New Haven, CT 06510 Maps & Directions Pioneering Education, Patient Care& Research Support Us 274 Events you could attend in June 2022 Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook Library & Reference © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 08/09/2019 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [8,104,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-search-components-global-search-GlobalSearchContainer","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [10,15,106,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-search-components-global-search-GlobalSearchContainer","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}