RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Vitals»Cool Tool»A Breathalyzer for COVID? The breathalyzer devices referred to as "Bubblers" are bathed in UV light to maintain sterility before being incorporated into kits for the clinical trial at Rhode Island Hospital. Photo courtesy William G. Fairbrother A Breathalyzer for COVID? 0 By Corrie Pikul on May 2022 Cool Tool, Faculty, Research, Vitals Researchers develop an RNA-based breath test to detect SARS-CoV-2. Transplants to Rhode Island quickly learn that if they’re thirsty, they can sip some water at the bubbler. Now, thanks to researchers at Brown, even the locals are learning a new definition of the word. The Bubbler is a breathalyzer device that reverse-transcribes RNA from airborne virus particles into DNA, which can then be tested for SARSCoV-2 via a common PCR test. “The Bubbler is more likely to be a better indicator of current infection than nasopharyngeal swabs,” says lead investigator William G. Fairbrother, PhD, professor of biology. As the team reported in the Journal of Molecular Diagnostics in December, the Bubbler is a glass tube with a glass pipette into which patients exhale. It’s filled with a reverse transcription reaction mixture and cold mineral oil. They recruited 70 patients to test it, comparing samples from tongue scrapes in the mouth; 15 seconds of exhaled breath collected in the Bubbler; and a conventional nasopharyngeal swab PCR test. The study determined that SARS-CoV-2 can be readily detected in the breath and is more predictive of lower respiratory tract involvement. Tests for COVID-19 usually use samples collected from the upper respiratory tract by saliva or nasopharyngeal swab. Positive samples contain active virus, but viral load in the upper respiratory tract is not correlated with symptoms in the lower respiratory tract, such as pneumonia. Furthermore, because swab tests detect viral RNA fragments in cells that persist in previously infected cells, PCR tests can return a positive result for months after infection. By contrast, the Bubbler detects airborne viral particles and is a better measure of risk of contagion, the authors wrote. The investigators also demonstrated how the Bubbler might be adapted to detect virus in airborne samples, though a detailed exploration of this application was beyond the scope of the study. “Such technology could be useful in restoring service to industries such as hotels, cruise ships, and casinos,” Fairbrother says. “There is also an epidemiological benefit to routine testing of air at early warning sites such as transportation hubs and hospital emergency departments.” breathalyzer COVID-19 Spring 2022 Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Made for These Times May 2022 0 Many Vets Face Food Insecurity May 2022 0 Alzheimer’s Prevention, From the Pulpit Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos