RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Articles»Prescription for Change Sreekanth Chaguturu ’99 MD’04 Prescription for Change 0 By Mary Stuart on May 2020 The CMO of CVS wants to improve health care access. We may not think of CVS as a health care company when we’re shopping for snacks and shampoo while filling a prescription, but in fact it’s the largest such company in the US. It encompasses insurance (Aetna), a pharmacy benefit manager (Caremark), and local care providers (HealthHUBs). Internal medicine physician Sreekanth Chaguturu ’99 MD’04 joined Woonsocket, RI-based CVS in September as chief medical officer. His new role is a variation on a theme that’s emerged over his career: addressing shortcomings in the delivery of care to increase access and quality. It began at Brown, when Chaguturu spent a year in South India at an HIV referral center as part of an NIH-sponsored study on the role of antiretroviral medications in resource-limited settings. “I became interested not only in questions of science, but in the policy question: how do you even design a health care system to deliver these medications?” he says. After four years at McKinsey & Company working with international health ministries and other clients around optimizing health systems, he joined Boston-based Partners HealthCare, which had recently been selected to become a pioneer accountable care organization (ACO). “In 2012, we only had the conceptual papers on what an ACO was,” he recalls. “The question was how to implement that.” Chaguturu delved into negotiations with payers around risk contracts, and was responsible for building clinical programs around certain populations—specifically, the 5 percent of patients who accounted for one-fifth of medical costs, among other targets. Through implementation of a new care plan, “we were able to reduce hospital admissions by 20 percent, ER visits by 20 percent, and save $2.65 for every dollar invested,” he says. But most importantly, mortality decreased by 4 percent. “We were most proud of that,” says Chaguturu, who has practiced internal medicine at Massachusetts General Hospital for 12 years. Over the years at Partners, Chaguturu says he had the opportunity to improve quality and reduce costs in almost every area of health—except for pharmaceutical spending. “It’s one area that health systems aren’t well positioned to address,” he says. “It’s a different set of actors.” Now he has that chance. Even as he strives to achieve work-life balance—Chaguturu and his wife, Megan Hardin, MD, a clinical research director in the pharmaceutical industry, live with their children, Rohan, 4, and Mira, 3, in the Boston suburbs—his new challenges are some of the most pressing of our time: “ensuring that we have an understanding of the pipeline of medications, getting them into the hands of patients who need them, and making sure we have the quality improvement and cost-containment initiatives for where the industry is headed.” For example, Chaguturu says, “We are increasingly going to see more gene therapies.” These may be important treatments for many diseases for which there currently is none. He hopes that Zolgensma, a new gene therapy for spinal muscular dystrophy manufactured by Novartis that costs $2.1 million for a single infusion, is an outlier. But Chaguturu’s team’s research suggests that gene therapies in development will be expensive, so they’re studying how to create the right payment models to make them accessible to patients. His team is also reviewing digital therapeutics—apps and hardware with clinically validated efficacy for anxiety or diabetes, for example—to figure out how to pay for them. There are hundreds of these apps and it takes a great deal of due diligence to distinguish the signal from the noise, Chaguturu says. “Some of these therapeutics actually do work,” he adds. “Here and now, there are new technologies and new players—big box stores, retail pharmacies, tech companies like Facebook, Google, and Amazon—that have not traditionally been in health care,” Chaguturu says. “Physicians play a critical role in connecting the dots and making sense of this Byzantine world of health care so that it makes sense to patients.” CVS pharmaceuticals Spring 2020 Sreekanth Chaguturu Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Walk With Me May 2022 0 The Rematch May 2022 0 A Cheerleader and Advocate Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos