RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Alumni»A Cheerleader and Advocate A Cheerleader and Advocate 0 By Emilija Sagaityte ’22 MD’26 on May 2022 Alumni, Alumni Album, Campus, Departments, Faculty A PLME alum returns to her roots Laura Mayer Perez, MD Laura Perez Mayer ’09 MD’14 F’19 became an assistant dean of medicine for the Program in Liberal Medical Education Advising this spring. In addition to advising undergraduates, she is planning and teaching the PLME Senior Seminar, while continuing her work as a supervisor of psychiatry residents and fellows, a reproductive psychiatrist, and a mother of two children. “I was really excited when [this]opportunity presented itself … because I felt like I was able to come back full circle,” says Mayer, a PLME herself. While concentrating in public health, she delved into the liberal arts, and channeled her creativity through activities like writing and dance. The support she received from the PLME ultimately prepared her for the rigor of medical school while giving her the freedom to stay involved in these other pursuits. “I understand what it’s like to be in this type of program,” she says. Mayer completed her residency at Boston University and returned to Brown for her fellowship in women’s mental health. She runs a small women’s reproductive health practice, which she founded during the COVID-19 pandemic. But she always envisioned herself as an adviser or teacher—roles that she considers “just as, if not even more, rewarding.” In clinical practice, she educates patients so they better understand their health. She also prioritizes self care for health care workers and medical students, and wants to include information on how to achieve this in the PLME Senior Seminar. Her appreciation of the time she can spend connecting with patients as a psychiatrist further parallels her emphasis on being open and receptive to students’ needs as an adviser. Mayer aims to listen to students and guide them through the uncertainties and concerns that a path into medicine can bring, as well as “be… their cheerleader, be their advocate,” she says. Spring 2022 Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Made for These Times May 2022 0 Many Vets Face Food Insecurity May 2022 0 Vaccine Doesn’t Shield Some Cancer Patients Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos