Skip to main content  Lewis Katz School of Medicine MENU About About the School Leadership Administrative Offices Alumni Giving News Events Contact Education MD Program Biomedical Sciences Program Physician Assistant Program Postbac Program Urban Bioethics Program Clinical Simulation Center Narrative Medicine Program Continuing Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Student Resources Research About Research Research Administration Clinical Research Regulatory Core Facilities and Services Resources for Researchers Community & Patients Patient Care About Patient Care About Temple Health About the Faculty Practice Search Clinical Trials Departments & Centers Faculty Directory Admissions Alumni Giving Contact Resources For Students For Faculty For Researchers Emergency Preparedness For TFP Physicians & Staff Library Information Technology Services Temple Health Home Departments & Centers Research Centers Center for Neurovirology and Gene Editing Print PageText SizeShare Page In This Section Center for Neurovirology and Gene Editing The Center for Neurovirology and Gene Editing, with its highly focused research programs in CNS-virus interaction, fosters collaboration among more than thirteen basic science and clinical departments and centers to develop and conduct comprehensive and multidisciplinary basic to clinic research programs. Through collaborative efforts with members of the Departments of Neurology and Radiology, a novel approach that includes the use of nanoparticles in imaging is under development for CNS disorders. This program has received funding from NIH. With members of the Department of Pharmacology and the Center for Substance Abuse Research (CSAR), a successful NIH-funded program project was developed based on the primate/SIV model generated by the CNV to assess cooperativity between morphine and HIV-1 in the pathogenesis of AIDS. Through additional collaboration with the several basic science and clinical departments, the CNV has also developed the Comprehensive NeuroAIDS Center (CNAC) grant application that recently received $8.34 million from NIMH. Further collaboration of the CNV with Infectious Diseases has led to funding of a grant application on basic and clinical AIDS. The funded program project focusing on signaling pathways in the CNS and neurodegeneration was developed through collaboration with faculty members from the Department of Biology. With our international affiliates, the CNV received an NIH-funded program to study the mechanisms of apoptosis in viral induced CNS disease. The center has been extremely successful in securing several large grants, center grants, training grants, and equipment grants. The center plans to focus more effort into training and initiating collaboration with clinicians in a variety of areas including neuroAIDS, brain tumors, multiple sclerosis and other viral induced CNS diseases. The synergistic collaboration between CNV and other groups of scientists in the areas of CNS infection, including those from the Department of Neuroscience, will continue to create a vibrant research and educational environment focused on viral induced neurological disorders. Center for Neurovirology and Gene Editing 3500 North Broad Street Medical Education and Research Building, 7th Floor Philadelphia, PA19140 Phone: 215-707-4500 Fax: 215-707-4888 For more information, please visit the Department of Neuroscience or Comprehensive NeuroAIDS Center (CNAC). Research Centers Alzheimer's Center at Temple Center for Urban Bioethics Center for Inflammation and Lung Research Center for Metabolic Disease Research Center for Asian Health Center for Neurovirology and Gene Editing Center for Substance Abuse Research Center for Translational Medicine Comprehensive NeuroAIDS Center Fels Cancer Institute for Personalized Medicine Hope Center for College, Community, and Justice Independence Blue Cross Cardiovascular Research Center Lemole Center for Integrated Lymphatics Research Shriners Hospitals Pediatric Research Center Sol Sherry Thrombosis Research Center Center for Biostatistics and Epidemiology Center for Microbiology and Immunology Stay Connected Contact Lewis Katz School of Medicine Medical Education & Research Building 3500 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, PA 19140 Important Links: Give Now Careers Dean's Office News Events Maps & Directions TUmail TUportal Copyright 2020, Temple University. All rights reserved. Temple Health Terms of Use