RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Articles»Isn’t She Lovely? Rebekah Gardner, MD Isn’t She Lovely? 0 By Amanda M. Grosvenor on October 2019 Study reveals gender and minority bias in clerkship evaluation language. What’s in a name? What’s in an adjective? Can seemingly innocuous descriptors in a third-year clerkship evaluation shape a medical student’s future? Signs point to yes, according to a study co-authored by Rebekah Gardner, MD, associate professor of medicine, and published in May in the Journal of General Internal Medicine. The work began on a hunch, after Gardner, who chairs the internal medicine residency selection committee, and Urmimala Sarkar, MD, MPH, a professor at the University of California, San Francisco School of Medicine, compared observations about med student evaluations. “Both of us had noticed quite a difference between [dean’s] letters that were describing female versus male medical students,” says Gardner, who each year reads 50 to 100 of these letters, also called Medical Student Performance Evaluations (MSPEs). “It’s really striking when you start to notice it.” The conversation sparked a research project that analyzed almost 90,000 third-year core clinical rotation clerkship evaluations from UCSF and Brown. The authors examined descriptions of underrepresented minorities (URMs) in addition to women. Computer algorithms sifted through the text and picked out common adjectives, weighting them for importance based on how often they were applied. The study found that women were more frequently labeled with personality traits like “lovely,” “cheerful,” and “fabulous,” while male counterparts received descriptors for competency-related behaviors, like “scientific.” URMs, meanwhile, were often described as “pleasant,” “open,” and “nice,” and less likely than non-URM students to be called “knowledgeable.” Gardner, who also teaches medical students during their third-year clerkships, knows that clerkship evaluators frequently write the same students’ residency recommendation letters, referring back to clerkship evaluations for reminders—sometimes verbatim. “So you may see echoes of the same verbiage,” Gardner says. Because MSPEs are an important part of residency applications, language can create a ripple effect: residency opportunities impact future fellowship chances, and so on. “What seems like a really tiny thing can have reverberations moving forward through that person’s career, particularly if [they]are already coming from a disadvantaged background,” Gardner says. Though the study results weren’t unexpected, Gardner says what surprised her more, “but wasn’t totally surprising, was the URM data. That’s been less looked at before.” And, she adds, they were “certainly very problematic.” Gardner notes that implicit or unconscious bias can occur when writing evaluations, especially when they are so numerous and frequent that they become routine. Reviewers become “less intentional” about word choice, she says, “and less thoughtful about the implications of those words.” Reviewers often lead hurried, busy lives, “so you shortcut. And when our brains take shortcuts, that doesn’t serve disadvantaged groups very well.” Brown and its residency programs regularly offer training for faculty and hospital staff to address unconscious bias, and Gardner’s department is participating in a University of Wisconsin workshop initiative called the Bias Reduction in Internal Medicine program. Gardner plans further study of effective bias reduction. “I think it would be helpful to have more data-driven approaches as opposed to just sort of using intuitive approaches,” she says. “It’s an area that we need more work on.” bias reduction clerkship Fall 2019 gender bias Rebekah Gardner Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Made for These Times May 2022 0 Many Vets Face Food Insecurity May 2022 0 Alzheimer’s Prevention, From the Pulpit Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 11 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos