RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Alumni»Momentum Jack A. Elias, MD Momentum 0 By Medicine@Brown on May 2022 Alumni, Campus, Departments, Faculty, Momentum Dean’s success celebrated with scholarship. The tenure of Jack A. Elias, MD, as Brown’s dean of medicine and biological sciences and senior vice president for health affairs was marked by many milestones and accomplishments. He guided the division’s 132-percent increase in grant funding during the last nine years. He led the formation of Brown Physicians, Inc., a 500-member faculty practice group. He also oversaw the establishment of multiple new translational research centers in Alzheimer’s disease, biomedical informatics, cancer, digital health, translational neuroscience, alternatives to animals in testing, and the computational biology of human disease. The impact his work had on students is also worth celebrating, including a substantial increase in class size to its current 144 students, and the establishment of the MD/MSc program. Under Dean Elias’ leadership, the Medical School received its first-ever full-ride endowed scholarships that provide tuition and living expenses for all four years of medical school. Funds like these are critical to Brown’s ability to provide outstanding students with the resources they need to pursue medical education. The School also created new funds to support student research for both medical and undergraduate students. In addition, Dean Elias made an indelible mark by reestablishing the MD/PhD training program at Brown on the strength of a gift from The Warren Alpert Foundation. The training of physician-scientists is a vital component of any research-focused medical school. The Warren Alpert Physician- Scientist MD/PhD and Advanced Training Program has thrived since its launch in 2017, with more than 300 applicants a year for its three spots. To honor his many accomplishments, members of the Brown community, led by Pardon R. Kenney ’72 MMSc’75 MD’75 RES’80, P’03, have begun an effort to establish the Jack A. Elias, MD, Term Scholarship as part of the Brown Medical Annual Fund. “The profound impact that Jack’s leadership has had on the Medical School and the Division of Biology and Medicine will be felt for years to come,” Kenney says. “Our graduates and Brown University as a whole have been elevated by his all-encompassing vision for research and education, and I am thrilled to help honor him in this way.” To join this effort with a gift, please visit brown.edu/go/DeanElias. A Legacy of Friendship When Julianne Y. Ip ’75 MD’78 RES’81, P’18, associate dean of medicine for the Program in Liberal Medical Education (PLME) and International Medical Exchange Programs, announced her retirement from Brown after 50 years on campus, many in the community wanted to honor her extraordinary service. First in line was her friend and classmate Alan M. Muney ’75 MD’78, P’04. Muney and Ip became fast friends during freshman week in 1971 when they were dormmates on Pembroke campus. He describes her as a serious student who always paid attention and took excellent notes. “All those traits were great for me,” jokes Muney, “since I was bad at all of them.” As Ip advanced through her career, Muney recognized certain qualities about her approach to medicine, like her love of building relationships with her patients and students, and how they trusted her—especially when she helped them navigate through difficult times. “It was really satisfying for her to be able to help so many people,” Muney says. “Juli never saw her work as just a job, but much more as a mission to help nurture students to find their own paths.” Ip is well known by students and families for her tireless leadership of the PLME and International Medical Exchange Programs. According to Muney, these were roles she was born to play. “Juli’s superpower is her laser-like ability to hone right down to the true cause of an issue,” he says. “It allowed her to see what was troubling someone or what was or wasn’t motivating them—often before the person could see it for themselves.” To honor Ip and continue her “generosity of wisdom,” Muney established the Julianne Y. Ip ’75 MD’78 RES’81 Medical Scholarship to support students in the PLME. “Juli’s influences have shaped the PLME for decades, and will continue to do so for years to come,” Muney says. “She deserves to be remembered by every student who receives this scholarship in the hope they also can be a physician who provides comfort to many over their own careers.” For Muney, this is clearly a gift from the heart. “Although it seems impossible that so much time has passed,” he says, “I’m lucky to have been able to rely on Juli for 50 years. I think of it as an unconditional friendship.” In addition to being thankful for Ip’s friendship, Muney shared another reason for establishing this fund: “I was given the opportunity to receive an incredible undergraduate and medical education at Brown, and I always felt lucky to have been chosen to experience it.” With this fund, Muney invites others to join him in celebrating Juli Ip’s extraordinary career and legacy at Brown. To make a gift, please visit brown.edu/go/PLME-Ip. Spring 2022 Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Made for These Times May 2022 0 Many Vets Face Food Insecurity May 2022 0 Vaccine Doesn’t Shield Some Cancer Patients Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos