Skip to Main Content Pharmacology Pharmacology Yale School of MedicinePharmacology About Us Research Graduate Program Faculty Administration News Events Diversity & Inclusion Initiative Pharmacology at Yale The Department of Pharmacology strives to create an inviting environment and institutional culture of inclusivity where every individual's unique and diverse characteristics are valued and respected. We sustain the richness of our department by recruiting and retaining trainees, staff, and faculty from diverse backgrounds and talents. Pharmacology at Yale University has a rich history of pre-eminence in drug discovery, indeed the first cancer chemotherapy clinical trials were conducted here. Today, the research in our department encompasses a broad range of fields , with researchers aiming to both understand and treat human disease. We are proud to have been ranked as the number one Pharmacology program among the medical schools of the USA by the National Research Council of the National Academy of Sciences. Latest News May 20, 2022 Single Cell Analysis Technologies Help Generate Unprecedented Maps of Disease Read more May 16, 2022 PROTAC Research Takes Aim at Drug Resistant Prostate Cancer Read more May 16, 2022 Yale Scientist Receives Connecticut Medal of Technology for Pioneering WorkSource: YaleNews Read more May 11, 2022 Dr. Roy S. Herbst honored at Friends of Cancer Research 25th Anniversary Dinner Read more May 09, 2022 Roy S. Herbst, MD, PhD, Named a Giant of Cancer Care® Read more May 03, 2022 Yale Cancer Center and Smilow Cancer Hospital physicians recognized as Connecticut Magazine 'Best Doctors' Read more More News Department of Pharmacology Events Jun 20229Thursday Yale Only 3:00 PM4:00 PMWolfgang Peti, PhD Pharmacology Seminar Series: "Function and Selectivity of Protein Phosphatases" Brady Memorial Laboratory Add event to Calendar Jun 202211Saturday Organization Only All DayMichael Mak - Matthew McConnell, MD - Silvia Vilarinho, MD, PhD - Michael Nathanson, MD, PhD - Mario Strazzabosco, MD, PhD - Guadalupe Garcia-Tsao, MD, FRCP - Yasuko Iwakiri, PhD - Wajahat Mehal, PhD, MD, BA - Raiza Rossi - Saad Saffo, MD - Catherine Mezzacappa, MD, MPH - Praveena Narayanan - Rachel Perry, PhD, BS - Romina Fiorotto, PhD - Gregory Tietjen, PhD - Michael Schilsky, MD - Lloyd G. Cantley, MD - Chen Liu, MD, PhD - Wade Schulz, MD, PhD - James Knight, PhD - Anton Bennett, PhD Yale Liver Center Retreat 2022 1525 Boston Post Road Add event to Calendar Jun 202214Tuesday Everyone (Public) 12:00 PM1:00 PMRanjit S. Bindra, MD, PhD - Seth Herzon, PhD Targeted DNA Modification: A new paradigm to exploit DDR defects in glioma and beyond Add event to Calendar Jun 202216Thursday Yale Only 12:30 PM1:30 PMDr. Ryan Hibbs Pharmacology Seminar Series-"Structural mechanisms of ion channel gating, pharmacology, and CNS immune disorders" Brady Memorial Laboratory Add event to Calendar See All Events Download The Calendar Drug Discovery The Drug Discovery program in Pharmacology is a multidisciplinary effort to explore new approaches for therapeutics by identifying a broad range of molecular targets for a variety of diseases. Integrative Cell Signaling The Department of Pharmacology at Yale University provides a cutting-edge environment and integrative strategies to decipher complex signal transduction networks. Structural Biology The mechanisms which control all processes in the body occur at the molecular level. We use the tools of structural biology to investigate these basic mechanisms and to aid drug discovery. Neuroscience Neuroscience research in Pharmacology consists of programs studying receptor, transporter and ion channel biology, cellular signaling and synaptic plasticity, sensory mechanisms in hearing and pain, the neurobiology of addiction, and mechanisms of nerve injury, protection and repair. Training in Pharmacology Pharmacology Graduate Program Admissions The Department of Pharmacology at Yale University offers integrated and interdisciplinary opportunities for graduate study under the Program in Biological and Biomedical Sciences (BBS). Students entering the BBS program can take courses, participate in laboratory rotations, and perform thesis research with any of the more than 200 faculty members in the biological sciences at Yale. Postdoctoral Training in Pharmacology Postdoctoral training in Pharmacology offers advanced laboratory research opportunities for postgraduate biomedical scientists in the training stages of their research careers. Research training is offered under the guidance of the Department's faculty. Postdoctoral training reflects the areas of research pursued by the department’s faculty. Training opportunities include courses, seminars, and collaborative investigative projects. Undergraduate Research Department of Pharmacology 333 Cedar Street New Haven, CT 06520 Maps & Directions 4 Events you could attend in June 2022 Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 01/21/2021 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [4,79,11,70,0,2,3,5,87,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-HomePageBanner","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-article-components-ArticleWidget","modules-events-components-event-lists-UpcomingEventList","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [5,81,7,14,72,0,3,1,4,89,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-HomePageBanner","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-article-components-ArticleWidget","modules-events-components-event-lists-UpcomingEventList","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}