RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»About Medicine@Brown About Medicine@Brown Published three times a year by Brown University’s Office of Biomedical Communications, Medicine@Brown is the alumni and news magazine of the Warren Alpert Medical School. It is intended for both internal and external audiences. These include Warren Alpert Medical School students, residents, alumni, faculty, staff, parents, and donors; Brown University alumni who earned their MD degree from another institution; the Rhode Island medical and lay communities; deans of US medical schools; and appropriate individuals and interest groups. The goals of the magazine are to create a connection between the Warren Alpert Medical School and its many constituencies, especially alumni; to inform readers of the activities and accomplishments of its faculty, students and alumni; to encourage an exchange of ideas and opinions on issues relating to medicine and medical education; and to increase the visibility of and support for the Medical School. To accomplish these goals Medicine@Brown seeks to reflect the interests of its readers while engaging them in an interactive relationship. The opinions of contributors do not necessarily reflect the views of Brown University, the Warren Alpert Medical School, or its affiliated teaching hospitals. Mailing Address Medicine@Brown Brown University Box G-P Providence, RI 02912 Email med@brown.edu Twitter @BrownMedicine Editor Kris Cambra Art Director 2communique Staff Writer Phoebe Hall Editorial Intern Aneeqah Naeem ’20 MD’24 Printing Lane Press Editorial Board Jay Baruch, MD Minoo D’Cruz ’11 MD’16 RES’19 Julianne Ip ’75 MD’78 RES’81 Pippa Jack Margaret Kelley ’94 MD’98 François Luks, MD Robert W. Panton ’83 MMS’86 MD’86 Lauren Sunhye Park MD’19 Teresa Schraeder, MD Neel Shah ’04 MD’09 Bethany Solomon Albert S. Woo ’95 MD’99 RES’05 Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos