Skip to main content  Lewis Katz School of Medicine MENU About About the School Leadership Administrative Offices Alumni Giving News Events Contact Education MD Program Biomedical Sciences Program Physician Assistant Program Postbac Program Urban Bioethics Program Clinical Simulation Center Narrative Medicine Program Continuing Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Student Resources Research About Research Research Administration Clinical Research Regulatory Core Facilities and Services Resources for Researchers Community & Patients Patient Care About Patient Care About Temple Health About the Faculty Practice Search Clinical Trials Departments & Centers Faculty Directory Admissions Alumni Giving Contact Resources For Students For Faculty For Researchers Emergency Preparedness For TFP Physicians & Staff Library Information Technology Services Temple Health Home Maps & Directions Print PageText SizeShare Page In This Section Maps & Directions Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University Medicine Education & Research Building (MERB) 3500 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, PA 19140 Maps Create step-by-step driving directions (via Google Maps) to the Health Sciences Center Campus from your specific address. Download a Map of the Health Sciences Center Campus (PDF) Directions Driving From West via PA Turnpike or Schuylkill Expressway: Take Turnpike to Exit 326 (Philadelphia/Valley Forge) then follow I-76 (Schuylkill Expressway) approximately 10 miles to Route 1 North (Roosevelt Boulevard). Take Route 1 North 2 miles to Broad Street exit. Follow exit ramp 2 blocks to Broad Street and turn right (Route 611 South). Proceed 3/4 mile to Health Sciences Center Campus. From Northeast via PA Turnpike or Roosevelt Boulevard: From PA Turnpike take Exit 351. Follow Route 1 South (Roosevelt Boulevard) approximately 10 miles (stay in right hand lanes) to Broad Street exit. Follow exit 1/2 mile to Broad Street and turn left (Route 611 South). Continue for approximately 3/4 mile to Health Sciences Center Campus. From North via I-95: Take Route 95 South to Cottman Avenue exit (Route 73 West). At bottom of ramp, continue through the intersection and follow signs for Route 73 West; this puts you on Cottman Avenue (Route 73 West). Follow Cottman Avenue for 2 miles to Roosevelt Boulevard (Route 1 South). Turn left on Route 1 South and go approximately 5 miles (stay in right hand lanes) to Broad Street exit. Follow exit 1/2 mile to Broad Street and turn left (Route 611 South). Continue for approximately 3/4 mile to the Health Sciences Center Campus. (Note: The I-95 Cottman Avenue Exit is currently closed for construction. The directions above provide an accessible route for patients and visitors coming from the North via I-95.) From South via I-95: Take Exit 22 (Route 676/Center City) and merge right onto Callowhill Street. Stay in right hand lanes and follow Callowhill Street for 1 mile to Broad Street. Turn right on Broad Street and go approximately 4 miles (32 blocks) to the Health Sciences Center Campus. From NJ Turnpike: Take NJ Turnpike to Exit 6; follow signs for PA Turnpike. Once on PA Turnpike, follow directions given "From Northeast." From Cherry Hill, NJ area: Take Route 70 or Route 38 West to overpass for Route 30 West (Admiral Wilson Boulevard). Take Admiral Wilson Boulevard approximately 2 miles to Benjamin Franklin Bridge. Once over bridge, follow signs for Vine Street/Local Traffic. Stay in "local traffic" lanes approximately 1 mile (8 blocks) to Broad Street (14th Street). Make a right onto Broad Street and go approximately 4 miles (33 blocks) to the Health Sciences Center Campus. From NJ Shore Points: Take Atlantic City Expressway to Route 42 North. On Route 42 North, go approximately 10 miles to Route 676. Take Route 676 approximately 3.5 miles to Benjamin Franklin Bridge. Once across bridge, follow directions "From Cherry Hill, NJ Area." Public Transportation From the Airport: Take the SEPTA Airport Line to Suburban Station (15th Street). Follow signs to City Hall via the underground concourse. From City Hall, take public transportation as listed below. From City Hall: Take the Broad Street subway local train to Allegheny Avenue. From Allegheny Avenue, walk 2 blocks north on Broad Street to the Health Sciences Center Campus. Or take the Cheltenham/Ogontz "C" bus north on Broad Street; it stops directly in front of the Hospital. Get on the bus at Broad Street between Market and Chestnut Streets, or at Broad and Arch Streets. Stay Connected Contact Lewis Katz School of Medicine Medical Education & Research Building 3500 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, PA 19140 Important Links: Give Now Careers Dean's Office News Events Maps & Directions TUmail TUportal Copyright 2020, Temple University. All rights reserved. Temple Health Terms of Use