Skip to Main Content About YSM Education Research Patient Care Diversity News Information for... Giving to Yale School of Medicine The School of Medicine gratefully accepts gifts that will further the school's missions of research, education, and advanced clinical care. However you choose to support the activities of our faculty and students, and at whatever level, your gift will have a lasting impact on the face of science and medicine. Priorities Among the school’s priorities, as it enters its third century, are the following: Endowment: Endowment funds provide a permanent, secure annual income stream for designated programs—such as scholarships, professorships and targeted research efforts. Facilities: Teaching spaces, research laboratories, and the development of Yale’s patient care areas all benefit from philanthropy directed to the construction, expansion, and renovation of our physical plant. Faculty support: Yale Scholar endowments support outstanding junior faculty beginning their academic careers. Named professorships honor and support the work of established faculty members. Your gift will enable physicians and scientists at many stages and in many fields to advance the state of their art. Research support: Gifts for research enable us to increase knowledge at the level of molecules and cells and provide resources for basic investigation and translational, clinical, and population-based studies. Opportunities abound to further understanding of the diseases that afflict humankind and to press on for cures. Scholarships: Scholarship funds support the education of students at the School of Medicine, many of whom would be unable to finance their studies without this crucial help. Medical student indebtedness is a growing challenge that threatens to derail promising careers before they get started. Your gift will support the best and the brightest and allow them to focus their careers where they can do the most good—without the burden of excessive debt. Our alumni and friends possess an uncommon commitment to supporting and improving the Yale School of Medicine. Their support has enabled the school to fund groundbreaking research and to invest in our infrastructure — with a significant and lasting impact. For information about gift opportunities, visit https://giving.yale.edu/ways-to-give/how-to-gift or contact Roopashree Narasimhaiah, Associate Vice President for Development at (203) 436-8504 or roopashree.narasimhaiah@yale.edu. Making a Difference Yale School of Medicine is fortunate to have the ongoing support of a loyal and large group of alumni, parents, and friends, who give in many ways: through unrestricted annual giving capital gifts in support of priorities such as student aid, faculty research, and facilities special reunion contributions planned gifts grants and awards from corporations and foundations However you choose to support Yale — and at whatever level — your generosity is both essential and truly appreciated. Every gift counts. What Are You For? For Humanity. Your gift is an investment in people who are uncovering new knowledge, innovating, and putting their expertise to use for the good of all humanity. For insight, for breakthroughs, for impact, for a better world—everyone can participate. Read More How to Give Provide critical funds for Yale to use right away in support of exceptional students, expert faculty members, and groundbreaking programs. There are many ways to give. Find the one that’s right for you. Read More About YSM History, Facts & Figures Leadership & Administration Office of the Dean Departments & Sections Find People Giving to YSM Contact Us A-Z Websites & Lists Founders Pledge: Fueling Health Innovation An initiative for entrepreneurs who wish to transform the future of medicine and health and join a dynamic giving community. 333 Cedar Street New Haven, CT 06510 Maps & Directions Pioneering Education, Patient Care& Research Support Us 268 Events you could attend in June 2022 Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook Library & Reference © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 04/17/2022 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [11,36,56,28,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","features-highlight-block-components-HighlightSmallBlock","features-navigation-components-sidebar-navigation-SidebarNavigation","features-cta-block-components-CtaBlock","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [7,14,38,58,30,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","features-highlight-block-components-HighlightSmallBlock","features-navigation-components-sidebar-navigation-SidebarNavigation","features-cta-block-components-CtaBlock","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}