Skip to Main Content Office of Communications Office of Communications Yale School of MedicineOffice of Communications Publishing Branding & Graphic Design Web Support & Services Photography Video Production Technology Policies & Guidelines Need Help? Accessibility at Yale Accessibility Statement at YSM As part of Yale’s mission, Yale is committed to “the free exchange of ideas in an ethical, interdependent, and diverse community.” That diversity includes all people regardless of ability or disability. Websites and web applications are integral to the university’s academic and administrative work. Yale is committed to making information, programs and activities on its websites and web applications accessible to people with disabilities through its Web Accessibility Policy. The Web Accessibility Policy applies to websites and applications that conduct university business, including all Yale School of Medicine, Yale School of Public Health, and Yale Cancer Center websites. Owners of such sites should be familiar with this policy and the Web Accessibility Procedure. The policy may also affect people in roles that work on university websites. People in roles that work on University websites and web applications should explore this website and take advantage of Yale’s accessibility resources and trainings. To meet the requirements of the policy, university websites should comply with the Web Accessibility Content Guidelines (“WCAG”) 2.0 Level AA. Visit the Accessibility Efforts at YSM page to find out more. Contact Us: If you have any questions about this policy and/or the YSM Office of Communications efforts to meet accessibility requirements, please contact us at ysm.editor@yale.edu. If you are having accessibility-related issues with any the content on our sites, you may also contact us at ysm.editor@yale.edu. Policies & Guidelines Policies Accessibility at Yale Accessibility Efforts at YSM YSM Communications 1 Church St New Haven, CT 06510 Maps & Directions Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 01/21/2021 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [11,56,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","features-navigation-components-sidebar-navigation-SidebarNavigation","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [7,14,58,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","features-navigation-components-sidebar-navigation-SidebarNavigation","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}