Skip to main content  Lewis Katz School of Medicine MENU About About the School Leadership Administrative Offices Alumni Giving News Events Contact Education MD Program Biomedical Sciences Program Physician Assistant Program Postbac Program Urban Bioethics Program Clinical Simulation Center Narrative Medicine Program Continuing Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Student Resources Research About Research Research Administration Clinical Research Regulatory Core Facilities and Services Resources for Researchers Community & Patients Patient Care About Patient Care About Temple Health About the Faculty Practice Search Clinical Trials Departments & Centers Faculty Directory Admissions Alumni Giving Contact Resources For Students For Faculty For Researchers Emergency Preparedness For TFP Physicians & Staff Library Information Technology Services Temple Health Home Education MD Program Dual Degree Programs Print PageText SizeShare Page In This Section Dual Degree Programs Lewis Katz School of Medicine at Temple University (LKSOM) offers programs leading to dual degrees. Each program is arranged between the medical school and the related degree-granting school, thereby introducing scheduling efficiencies. The curricula of the dual degree programs are not integrated; rather, students in dual degree programs will complete all curricular requirements of each program. Tuition is paid for the courses leading to each degree. Upon successful completion of each component of the program, the student will receive MD/PhD, MD/MPH, MD/MBA, or MD/MA degree. MD/PhD Program 215-707-3976 mdphd@temple.edu The MD/PhD Program provides the opportunity to gain expertise in clinical medicine and become broadly trained in basic science research at an institution noted for excellence in teaching and research. The comprehensive seven/eight-year program attracts bright, highly motivated students considering a research career in academic medicine. 2 Years: 1st and 2nd years of the Medical School curriculum 3 or 4 Years: Original research project and PhD course completion under the guidance of a preceptor 2 Years: 3rd and 4th years of the Medical School curriculum Establishing a solid research foundation, the first two years of the program include four laboratory rotations. In subsequent years, students concentrate on one of five areas within the Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program for their doctoral research: Cancer Biology and Genetics Infectious Disease and Immunity Molecular and Cellular Biosciences Neuroscience Organ Systems and Translational Medicine Within these five broad fields, MD/PhD candidates can work closely in the School of Medicine’s world-class, disease-based research centers with their advisors and faculty—all of whom are premier researchers in their respective fields. Such in-depth involvement with cutting-edge research is one of the key reasons that the MD/PhD Program is an exceptional way to jumpstart a career in academic medicine. MD/MA in Urban Bioethics Program 215-707-3664 maub@temple.edu The MD/MA in Urban Bioethics Program is a unique opportunity for LKSOM students to better understand and addresses the ethical challenge of health inequity in urban contexts of density, diversity, and disparity. Offered through Temple’s Center for Urban Bioethics, the program trains students to use the tools of bioethics to examine health, healthcare delivery, and health law and policy that underlie complex urban health disparities. Graduates possess the practical skills, theoretical orientation and resources required to maximize care and to be innovators in research, care delivery, and policy and advocacy. Students will complete the requirements for the MA concurrent with the medical school courses with no additional time necessary to complete the MA coursework. Scholarships are available for MD/MA students. MD/MBA (Master of Business Administration) 215-204-5890 foxinfo@temple.edu Offered jointly by Temple University’s Katz School of Medicine and Fox School of Business, this dual-degree program allows students to enroll in online business courses any time during medical school. No additional time is necessary to complete the MBA coursework. Applicants benefit from special tuition scholarships and an expedited MBA application process that includes a GMAT waiver. The Online MBA program begins with a one-week orientation residency on campus, during which students complete their first course and engage in networking, professional development, technology training and team-building activities. Dual-degree students will complete 36 credits of core MBA coursework, with 12 elective credits awarded to the MBA program upon successful completion of the Doctoring 1 and 2 courses. Each online course is five weeks long. While all prerecorded course content is available 24/7 in a mobile-friendly format, Fox Online MBA students will dive deeper into business topics by attending live web conferencing classes on Thursday evenings. Finally, an integrative capstone experience allows students to demonstrate, in a real-world setting, that they have mastered the knowledge and skills that today’s healthcare and business environments require. MD/MPH Program 215-204-5200 cph@temple.edu Offered jointly by Temple University’s Lewis Katz School of Medicine and the College of Public Health, this dual-degree program allows students to enroll in public health coursework beginning in the Spring of their first year in medical school. Completion of the MD/MPH dual-degree requires a 5-year course of study. Applicants benefit from an expedited MPH application process that includes a GRE waiver. Dual-degree students will choose a single area of public health specialization from three distinct options: Epidemiology, Health & Policy Management, or Social & Behavioral Sciences. Through their MPH coursework, dual degree students will dive deeper into a diverse range of topics that impact health in everyday lives including disease risk and prevention, nutrition, environmental issues, and the economics of healthcare. These topics will serve as a strong compliment to medical education and practice. MD Program Curriculum Why Temple? How to Apply Student Life Dual Degree Programs MD/PhD Program Visiting Students Contact Us Resources for Students For more information about the resources available to current students, please visit the Office of Student Support View Student Resources Stay Connected Contact Lewis Katz School of Medicine Medical Education & Research Building 3500 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, PA 19140 Important Links: Give Now Careers Dean's Office News Events Maps & Directions TUmail TUportal Copyright 2020, Temple University. All rights reserved. Temple Health Terms of Use