RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Features»Inclusion: It’s Everyone’s Job Tracey Guthrie, MD Inclusion: It’s Everyone’s Job 0 By PAMELA A. KEENE on October 2019 Features, News Diversity administrator cites need for responsibility in creating health equity GROWING UP, TRACEY M. GUTHRIE, MD, followed her passions. With a dentist and a nurse as parents, she always knew that medicine would be her career, but the question was a matter of exactly where she would fit. “My mother strongly encouraged me to become an OB-GYN, but I had no interest in following that path,” says Guthrie, assistant dean for diversity in the Division of Biology and Medicine at Brown University and program director in the Butler Hospital/Brown Psychiatry Residency Program. “You see, she raised an independent-thinking daughter; I knew that my choice of psychiatry was the right one for me.” Guthrie’s frankness serves her well as assistant dean, supporting the work of Brown University’s associate dean in the Office of Diversity and Multicultural Affairs. “The mission of ODMA is to help create and foster a diverse, inclusive and culturally competent learning and training environment for students, faculty and trainees within the Division of Biology and Medicine,” she says. “We have a further social mission to promote social responsibility, active engagement and the well-being of our communities in the pursuit of health equity.” Health equity continues to be a serious issue in today’s health care arena, but the programs Guthrie works with are challenging the norm by providing opportunities for more people of diverse backgrounds to benefit from inclusion. “Inclusion really is key to creating health equity, not only for patients, but for those of us who serve in the medical field,” she says. “I think that the only way we will truly progress is if everyone sees inclusion as their responsibility, not someone else’s responsibility. “In an organization, people generally take their direction from the leadership. For any organization to succeed, we need our leadership at every level to take an active role in modeling, promoting and supporting diversity and inclusion,” Guthrie says. “That can make all the difference in our accomplishments.” As an independent thinker, Guthrie has always been open to the ideas and guidance from those with more and different experiences than her own. Mentors have played crucial roles at various stages of her career development, some long-term and others for shorter periods along the way. “I have had so many mentors, so many people who willingly have given me their time and knowledge,” she says. “Some of those relationships lasted moments, a few weeks. Others are still present in my life today. I have quite a collection of mentors, and I hope I never stop collecting them. She credits one mentor with helping her attain her current position at the university. “My predecessor in my job as program director, Jane Eisen, MD, has certainly had a major influence on my life,” she adds. “Dr. Eisen currently serves as clinical director of the Division of Depression and Anxiety Disorders at McLean Hospital. If it were not for her, I would certainly not be in this role as a program director.” Guthrie credits Eisen with the gift of helping her see potential beyond the obvious and inspiring her to reach deeper. “She has the ability to get you to do things that you did not even know you were capable of doing. She could see things I didn’t see in myself. I still call Jane when I have a career decision to make. So far, she has done an excellent job managing my career, and I do not intend to let her stop now.” As Guthrie moves forward, her goals are succinct: • To advocate for meaningful inclusion for all students in all settings; • To support and mentor students who are underrepresented in medicine on their journey through medical school and beyond; • To support and engage UIM (underrepresented in medicine) faculty at Brown through the recently developed faculty association. And her advice to others? “Believe in yourself. Find a mentor and listen to them. Ask questions and seek out guidance from people who have traveled the path before you,” Guthrie says. “Medicine is a dynamic and stimulating profession. I feel privileged to be able to use my training to alleviate suffering. Join us.” This article originally appeared in Diversity in Action magazine. Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Students Honor Anatomy Donors and Families May 2022 0 Made for These Times May 2022 0 For the Love of the Ocean State Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 11 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos