Skip to Main Content Investigative Medicine Program Investigative Medicine Program Yale School of MedicineInternal Medicine Investigative Medicine Program About Us Admissions Requirements Faculty Students News & Events Courses Investigative Medicine Program The Investigative Medicine Program is an innovative training program in clinical investigation for physicians that leads to a Ph.D. degree in Investigative Medicine awarded from the Yale Graduate school of Arts and Sciences. The over-arching goal of the graduate program is to provide the training required to develop a broad knowledge base, analytical skill, creative thinking and the hands-on experience demanded of clinical researchers devoted to either laboratory-based or clinically-based patient-oriented investigation. Admission to the Investigative Medicine Program is competitive, across multiple disciplines (clinical subspecialties), and with a choice of focus on either patient-oriented research, disease oriented research, or basic “translational” laboratory research. Students are provided with individualized research training encompassing both formal coursework and practical experience, under the supervision and mentorship of a senior faculty member. Students can undertake thesis work in a variety of disciplines. These include: evaluating risk factors and interventions for disease using modern concepts in quantitative methods and clinical study design; exploring the molecular basis for a disease from the laboratory standpoint; investigating the biochemical, physiologic and genetic basis for disease in the setting of a Clinical Research Center. Requirements for the Ph.D. degree are completion of a didactic curriculum of required and elective courses, comprehensive examination, and a research project resulting in a dissertation – under the guidance of a Qualifying and Thesis Committee. Students will be able to obtain a Ph.D. degree in a timeframe not substantially different from that required for research training in most medical subspecialties. It is expected that most students will complete the program in 3-4 years. Apply For more information and to apply to the Investigative Medicine Program, please visit our Application Materials page. Programs of Study Students can undertake thesis work in a variety of disciplines. Graduate Feedback "The medical residents at the Cleveland Clinic are very impressed by my Ph.D in Investigative Medicine from Yale." Spring 2022 Course Registration 2 Church Street South New Haven, CT 06510 Maps & Directions Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 04/07/2022 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [4,79,11,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-HomePageBanner","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","common-components-buttons-Button","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [5,81,7,14,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-HomePageBanner","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","common-components-buttons-Button","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}