Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events For You Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents Give Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University Site Navigation About Mission, Vision and Values Departments Strategic Plan Leadership and Governance Affiliated Hospitals History Accreditation Clery Act Maps and Directions Education Degree Programs Residency Programs Fellowship Programs Faculty Development Continuing Medical Education Visiting Medical Student Programs International Exchange Programs Research Medicine Today Seminar Series Brown Institute for Translational Science Centers, Institutes, and Programs Doing Research at Brown Find a Researcher Innovation & Industry Engagement Library Resources Decoding Disparities Lecture Series Admission & Aid Medical and Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Notice of Nondiscrimination Student Life Student Services Life in Providence Student Groups Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Dashboard Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Programs and Initiatives Search Search Menu Ceremony of Commitment to Medicine Breadcrumb Home About Events Ceremony of Commitment to Medicine Event Details Back to Top A special Spring celebration sponsored by the Brown Medical Alumni Association (BMAA). Saturday, April 30, 2022 11 a.m. Livestream Ceremony location: Pembroke Field, Brown University Intersection of Meeting and Brooks Streets. Refer to this Brown University map. *Please note, all the above is subject to change due to public health circumstances. Brown University abides by public health guidance and health and safety protocols to reduce the risk of transmission of COVID-19. Event attendees, including visitors and guests, must comply with all University policies and protocols in place at the time of the event, including current University policy regarding face masks and coverings (see the University’s COVID-19 Campus Activity Status page for the current policy for both vaccinated and unvaccinated individuals.) We ask you also to review the State of Rhode Island Department of Health website with regard to travel requirements which must be adhered to. **Please note, MD'24 students have been allotted four (4) tickets each to provide to their guests. The ceremony will be live streamed and recorded for future viewing. Additional Information Back to Top Your MD'24 student is responsible for the tickets they receive. No additional tickets are available. Seating is first come, first served. The ceremony will be rain or shine. Some seating may be outside of the tent. Seating will open at 10 a.m. on Saturday. It’s a magical weekend! We’re capturing that magic in photos and videos so current and future participants can share the experience. All or portions of Brown University events and their participants may be captured by photography or video and used for news or Brown promotional purposes. The event will also be live streamed. More Details Back to Top During this 90-minute, time-honored tradition, your MD'24 student will be formally coated by the dean of the Medical School. Highlights will include: REMARKS BY: John Milner MD’21 Brown University Orthopaedic Residency Program Christina H. Paxson Brown University President Mukesh K. Jain, M.D. Dean of Medicine and Biological Sciences Rachel Blake MD’16 Brown Medical Alumni Association Board Member FAQ Back to Top Are extra tickets available for the ceremony? No, unfortunately because of public health circumstances, we are unable to offer additional tickets. Will the live stream be accessible from any location? Yes! MD'24 students and families may access the livestream at the following link: https://bit.ly/whitecoat24 Since the ceremony is outside, will there be a rain date or indoor location in the event of bad weather? No, the ceremony will happen outside at the announced location, rain or shine. Will we have the opportunity to take photos with our student on April 30? You will be able to take photos with your student before and/or after the ceremony. What is parking like on campus? Guests may park in a Wheeler School lot near 211 Hope Street where there are about 90 spaces. It's very close to the corner of Angell and Hope Streets. It will be first come, first served. There is ample street parking around campus. For directions and additional parking information, refer to this site. For a campus map, refer to this Brown University map. Will the ceremony be recorded? Yes! In addition to the live stream, the ceremony will also be recorded. We will share the final recording with MD'24 students and our community. Are masks required? For more information about COVID-19 policies, please visit the University’s COVID-19 Campus Activity Status page. Are children of any age allowed? Yes! All ages are welcome. Please refer to the link above to learn more about the University's mask requirement and more. Do you have a question we haven't answered? Contact: Ellen Schulte Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility Clery Act The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University For You Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation About Mission, Vision and Values Departments Strategic Plan Leadership and Governance Affiliated Hospitals History Accreditation Clery Act Maps and Directions Education Degree Programs Residency Programs Fellowship Programs Faculty Development Continuing Medical Education Visiting Medical Student Programs International Exchange Programs Research Medicine Today Seminar Series Brown Institute for Translational Science Centers, Institutes, and Programs Doing Research at Brown Find a Researcher Innovation & Industry Engagement Library Resources Decoding Disparities Lecture Series Admission & Aid Medical and Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Notice of Nondiscrimination Student Life Student Services Life in Providence Student Groups Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Dashboard Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Programs and Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events For You Give This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Ceremony of Commitment to Medicine Open details for Ceremony of Commitment to Medicine Bookmark this Page