Skip to main content Search for: Ex: How do I apply to Providence College? Menu Apply Visit Give Coronavirus Information & Updates Parents & Families Alumni Media MY-PC Events Media Press Room Home Commencement Press Releases Policies Economic Impact Close menu Public Affairs, Community and Government Relations PC Experts Videos Arati Kale - What is an NFT? There has been a lot of talk about NFTs recently. Assistant Professor of Finance Arati Kale tells us more about these non-fungible tokens and why they have become so popular. For all media inquiries, please contact Carolyn Cronin at 401-865-2413 or ccronin2@providence.edu. Featured Providence College Experts Comfort Ateh, Ph.d. Associate Professor, Secondary Education Jennifer Van Reet, Ph.d. Director of the Center for Engaged Learning Eric Sung, M.F.A Director of the Business and Innovation Program Darra Mulderry, Ph.D. Director of National and International Fellowships Media Experts by Topic & Department Experts Video Archive Most Recent Experts Bob Hackey - What Should We Expect From A New State Health Director? As Rhode Island waits to learn who the next leader of the R.I. Department of Health will be, Health Policy and Management Professor Bob Hackey discusses what qualities this person should have, challenges they may face, and how this role has evolved since the COVID-19 pandemic began two years ago. Joan Branham - Notre Dame Cathedral Fire Anniversary It's been three years since the fire at Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris. Joan Branham, professor of art and art history, discusses what happened the day of the fire, what art work was damaged and what was saved, her thoughts on the restoration efforts to date, and what we can expect when the Cathedral opens to the public again. Father Justin Brophy O.P. - The Easter Season Father Justin Brophy O.P., Assistant Professor of Political Science, discusses the importance of the Easter Season here at PC as well as how students can best prepare for Holy Week and Easter. Check us out on Youtube Contact Us Public Affairs, Community & Government RelationsPhone: 401.865.2413 facebook twitter instagram youtube Steven Maurano '78 Associate Vice President Public Affairs, Community & Government Relations Phone: 401.865.2413 smaurano@providence.edu Carolyn E. Cronin Assistant Director Media Relations Phone: 401.865.2413 ccronin2@providence.edu 1 Cunningham Square Providence, RI 02918 USA Tel: +1.401.865.1000 Contact PC Support PC Emergency Information Student Consumer Information Academics Majors, Minors, Programs Academic Calendar Library People & Places Offices & Services Directory People Directory Maps & Directions Visit Facts & Info Fast Facts Jobs Mass Schedule Annual Security Report Title IX & Sexual Harassment Copyright ©2022. Providence College Terms of Use | Privacy Policy If you are having trouble viewing or accessing these web pages, please email our Web Accessibility Coordinator Page maintained by: PC Web Services | About This Site