RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»News»Med Students Lead SNMA National Committees Eloho Akpovi, left, and Ade Osinubi Med Students Lead SNMA National Committees 0 By Phoebe Hall on June 2020 News, Students Ade Osinubi will co-chair External Affairs, while Eloho Akpovi continues her leadership of Health Policy and Legislative Affairs. Adeiyewunmi (Ade) Osinubi ’18 MD’22 was appointed co-chair of the National External Affairs Committee at the Student National Medical Association (SNMA) 2020 Annual Medical Education Conference in April. The SNMA is the oldest and largest independent, student-run organization in the US that addresses the needs and concerns of students who are underrepresented in medicine. More than 7,000 medical students, pre-med students, and physicians are members of the organization’s more than 150 chapters across the country. Osinubi grew up in New Jersey and earned her bachelor’s in public health in Brown’s Program in Liberal Medical Education. As an undergraduate she worked to support students of color as president of the Black Student Union and as a Minority Peer Counselor, receiving the Alfred H. Joslin Award for exemplary contributions to the quality of student life at Brown. Now in her third year at The Warren Alpert Medical School, her passions include women’s health, supporting students of color, and using media to raise awareness about health disparities. Eloho Akpovi MD’21 ScM’21, MS, is beginning her second year as co-chair of the SNMA National Health Policy and Legislative Affairs Committee. Born in Nigeria and raised in Boston, Akpovi started a pre-med chapter of the SNMA at MIT, where she studied brain and cognitive sciences. Before coming to Brown, she worked as a community health worker in Boston and a clinical researcher at Boston University, where she also earned a master’s. A student in the Primary Care-Population Medicine Program, she wants to pursue a career in obstetrics and adolescent family planning. Ade Osinubi Eloho Akpovi SNMA Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Students Honor Anatomy Donors and Families May 2022 0 The Rematch May 2022 0 Pathways Guide More Students to Medicine Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos