Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Med School News Request Info Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Apply Now Contact Us Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Veteran Affairs Visitors Whom to Refer Staff Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Education Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Aging Studies PhD Graduate Medical Education Undergraduate Medical Education Center for Continuing Education (CME) About Us Office of Multicultural Affairs Employee's COVID-19 Information & Guidelines TUSOM Companion App Faculty Affairs Professionalism Program Administration Wellness ~ Get Help LCME Accreditation Mission, Vision, Core Values Teaching Facilities & Hospitals Dean's Open Office Hours School of Medicine Guiding Principles Student Affairs Residency Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Statement Mission and Leadership Accreditation and ACGME Updates Leadership Updates Report A Concern Living in New Orleans Resources for Directors & Coordinators Resources for Residents & Fellows Additional GME Resources TUSOM Companion App Graduate Medical Education Committee Contact Us Resident/Fellow COVID-19 Information GME Policies & Procedures Residency & Fellowship Programs Tulane Resident and Fellow Congress (TRFC) Professionalism Applicant Information Admissions MD Admissions Contact Us Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Departments Clinical Sciences Centers & Institutes Basic Sciences Research Tulane Doctors Our Doctors Our Providers Patient Resources Cancer & Treatment Childhood Cancer & Prevention Clinic Contact Us Contact Us Driving Directions-Maps Free Prostate Cancer Screenings Lodging Neurology Clinic Neurosurgery Clinic Our Locations Our Locations Programs Support Services Tulane Center for Clinical Neurosciences ~ Clinic ~ Services Education About Us Student Affairs Residency Admissions Departments Research Tulane Doctors Apply Give to Med School News Request Info Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Information For... Home / Lisa Morici, PhD Lisa Morici, PhD Professor lmorici@tulane.edu 504-988-1113 School of Medicine Education Ph.D. - University of California, Berkeley Biography RESEARCH FOCUS Eliciting Vaccine-Mediated Immunity against Difficult Infections. The majority of infectious diseases for which we lack an effective vaccine will require rational vaccine design and new approaches for eliciting protective immune responses. In order to achieve the best immunological response, a vaccine must induce antibody and T cell memory responses within the tissues most vulnerable to infection. My laboratory is addressing this challenge by examining the impact of adjuvant, route, and location of immunization on vaccine efficacy against difficult infections, such as those caused by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. We have shown that intradermal immunization with the ADP-ribosylating enterotoxin adjuvant, dmLT, can elicit protection against bacterial pneumonia in the lungs, demonstrating that delivering the appropriate adjuvant by the appropriate route can redirect immunity to the tissues where it is most effective. This work is significant because traditional vaccination strategies that utilized alum as the adjuvant and/or the intramuscular route of immunization failed to protect in similar studies. We are also using bacterial-derived outer membrane vesicles as adjuvants to improve the humoral and cellular immune response elicited by vaccination. Together with James McLachlan, we are working to develop next-generation adjuvanted vaccines for pertussis (NIH Adjuvant Dev. Contract 272201800045C) and Covid-19 (Fast Grant). Vaccine Discovery and Development. My laboratory has also pioneered the use of native outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) as multivalent vaccines for intracellular bacterial pathogens. In particular, we have developed a leading vaccine candidate for the Tier 1 select agent pathogens Burkholderia pseudomallei and B. mallei for the Department of Defense. As the inventor of this OMV vaccine, I have successfully moved the candidate vaccine from the discovery stage to its successful evaluation in both rodents and nonhuman primates. We are now working with industry partners for cGMP manufacturing of the OMV vaccine for planned Phase I clinical trials. I have served as the lead PI on two consecutive multi-year, multimillion-dollar DoD awards (HDTRA1-19-C0013; HDTRA1-14-C-0035) to support the OMV vaccine development and testing. Novel Approaches to Treat Bacterial Wound Infections. Treatment and prevention of infection with multidrug-resistant bacterial pathogens, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus, represents one of the greatest challenges in medicine. In particular, infection of medical implants is difficult, if not almost impossible, to overcome and is a formidable clinical challenge. We were among the first to demonstrate that surgical biological meshes, purported to “resist infection,” are highly susceptible to colonization with P. aeruginosa and S. aureus and subject to subsequent degradation and failure in vivo. These studies helped to elucidate why patients receiving biologic meshes in contaminated surgical fields (abdominal and pelvic repairs) experience graft failure and disease recurrence. More recently, we have turned our attention to combating drug-resistant wound infections. We are evaluating several alternative approaches, including microbicides, bacterial-derived vesicles, peptides, vaccines, and phage therapy, to treat and/or prevent P. aeruginosa, methicillin-resistant S. aureus, and Acinetobacter baumannii infections. Our work in this area is currently supported by the Department of Defense (Grant W81XWH2010071) and National Science Foundation (2012920 STTR Phase I to BioAesthetics). Interests Publications PubMed Search Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University School of Medicine 1430 Tulane Avenue New Orleans, LA 70112 Clinics: 504-988-5800 or 1-800-588-5800 Click Below to Contact School of Medicine: Admissions Administration Tulane Doctors for appointments Maps & Directions TMedWeb Administration Departments & Centers Room Reservations Professionalism/ Environment of Learning GDPR Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices News MAP: HSC Campus Give to School of Medicine Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Annual Doty Compassion Lecture Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University