RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Faculty»When All Else Fails Dio Garcia, left, and Chris Born. Photo by David DelPoio When All Else Fails 0 By Phoebe Hall on May 2022 Faculty, Research, Vitals New technologies prevent drug-resistant pathogens from taking root. Scientists and clinicians have been ringing alarm bells about antimicrobial resistance for decades. Yet as more and more “superbugs” repel more and more treatments, and more and more people die—at least 1.27 million in 2019, according to The Lancet—governments have done little to incentivize the development of new drugs by the public or private sector. The most terrifying pathogens aren’t just multidrug resistant, they’re pan resistant: impervious to all known antibiotics. While doctors’ drug arsenals desperately need a boost, some researchers are focused on preventing infections before they start. “At some point there’s nothing left,” says Dioscaris Garcia PhD’12, a microbiologist and assistant professor of orthopaedics (research). “You need something that is going to uncouple that cycle of, new antibiotic comes in, bacteria mounts a resistance, and then we’re back to square one.” Garcia is a co-director of the Diane N. Weiss Center for Orthopaedic Trauma Research at Rhode Island Hospital, where he and co-director Christopher Born, MD, are developing technologies to stop bacteria from adhering to orthopedic implants, infiltrating wounds, and colonizing prosthetic liners. They’re also trying to speed up diagnosis with a test that locates and identifies offending microbes in minutes instead of days. Born, a trauma surgeon and the Intrepid Heroes Professor of Orthopedic Surgery, began working years ago on a previously patented antimicrobial coating “weaponized” with silver carboxylate to reduce the formation of layers of microbes known as biofilms on surgical screws, catheters, and other hardware. “[Biofilms] are relatively impermeable to antibiotics and other means,” Born says. When they form, surgeons must remove the infected implant, clean the area as best they can, administer antibiotics, and hope for the best. In published and recently submitted studies, Born, Garcia, and co-authors have shown that a silver carboxylate coating inhibits biofilm formation by Acinetobacter baumannii, Enterococcus faecium, and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus—three of the bacteria on the WHO’s “priority pathogen” list. While Garcia and Born need FDA approval before this coating can be applied to implants in humans, it’s already in use on prosthetic liners, where it prevents not only skin inflammation and irritation, but also odor caused by the breakdown of bacteria, Born says. “This is a big complaint that people who have limb loss talk about, but have not been open about,” he adds. The team also has patented technology to more rapidly identify pathogens when infection sets in. Current tests can take up to two weeks to return results; clinicians are forced to either guess which drugs to administer, or use broad-spectrum antibiotics—and further contribute to antibiotic resistance. The Weiss lab’s rapid visualization assay (RVA) uses immunofluorescence and microscopy to detect the same bacteria that existing technologies do, but in just half an hour, Born and Garcia say. Garcia says the RVA device—which “looks just like a Keurig”—could offer “point-of-service infection detection.” A surgeon can remove a piece of hardware or a bit of tissue or joint fluid, place it in the visualization chamber, and in about 30 minutes identify and quantify the bacteria present. “You see exactly where the infection pockets are,” Garcia says, and remove the microbes “with a targeted irrigation.” Best of all, the assay can be done for as little as $1. “If you’re in a third-world country, if you were in the middle of a war theater, you may not give a darn how many bacteria you have in there, you just want to know if there’s bacteria in there,” Garcia says. “The system was designed with that flexibility in mind.” The technology is ready for licensing. Yet even before COVID, it was difficult to garner commercial interest. “Know any people who are in the angel funding world?” Born says with a rueful laugh. “This is real. It works. It’s quite remarkable.” Until they find an interested financial partner, Garcia says, they’ll keep trying to improve it, to perhaps make it even faster or incorporate artificial intelligence. Because the threat of antimicrobial resistance will only continue to grow. “Until COVID came around, this was one of the top priorities for the World Health Organization,” Garcia says. “We now are in dire need of having a technology that stays one step ahead.” antimicrobial resistance infection orthopedics Spring 2022 superbugs Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Made for These Times May 2022 0 Many Vets Face Food Insecurity May 2022 0 Alzheimer’s Prevention, From the Pulpit Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos