RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Campus»Students Help Fight COVID-19 Third- and fourth-year medical students are pitching in to help hospitals, health care workers, and Rhode Island health officials. Students Help Fight COVID-19 0 By Maggie Spear on March 2020 Campus, Faculty, Hospitals, News, Students When clinical rotations were paused, med students found new ways to support Rhode Island’s frontline health care workers. As Rhode Island confronts the COVID-19 pandemic, more than 150 third- and fourth-year students from the Warren Alpert Medical School are volunteering their time to assist hospitals, health care workers and state health officials. Based on recommendations from the Association of American Medical Colleges, medical student participation in clinical rotations was suspended on March 17, freeing hours for many students. “Immediately, the affected medical students started asking what they could do to help,” said Jack A. Elias, MD, senior vice president for health affairs and dean of medicine and biological sciences. The medical students are offering their expertise in multiple ways. To date, 152 students have volunteered to staff the 24/7 COVID-19 hotline for Lifespan, the state’s largest health system. Students assist a wide range of callers, including providers, patients and concerned members of the community. Other efforts to assist continue to coalesce daily. Physicians based at practices have requested help from students with phone triage. The Rhode Island Department of Health has reached out in search of clinical student volunteers to take on shifts in which they will contribute in non-exposure settings — notifying patients and physicians of test results, investigating exposures, gathering statewide epidemiological data, and presenting histories to clinical experts as they weigh the need for COVID-19 tests. Beyond direct medical efforts, students are filling a crucial role with everyday tasks — like child care and grocery shopping — for workers who don’t have the time or resources. Alpert Med Resource Aid, a group of students organized to meet these needs, has 90 students willing to volunteer in some capacity, and contracts for volunteers and aid recipients have been reviewed and approved by Brown’s Office of General Counsel. The students’ efforts are illustrative of a much broader, still nascent effort at Brown to assist the community in contending with coronavirus on multiple fronts. Elsewhere on campus are other examples: conversations with the state on the use of Brown residence halls during the COVID-19 response; an urgent donation drive for N95 masks, gloves and other supplies for health providers; and faculty and other researchers’ expertise offered to state health officials on everything from laboratory testing to epidemiology to data modeling. Elias said he’s incredibly proud of the medical students for stepping up so rapidly: “Clearly, no matter where they hail from, our students see Rhode Island as their community now and want to serve this community as much as they can,” he said. Click here to read a Q&A interview with the medical students spearheading the volunteer efforts: Kira Bromwich ’15 MD’21, Lindsay Dreizler MD’21, Hannah Kerman ’15 MD’21, and Harry VanDusen MD’21. clinical rotations COVID-19 volunteering Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Students Honor Anatomy Donors and Families May 2022 0 Made for These Times May 2022 0 Many Vets Face Food Insecurity Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos