Skip to main content For COVID-19 vaccine updates, please review our information guide. For patient eligibility and scheduling availability, please visit VaccineTogetherNY.org. Enter the terms you wish to search for. Select Search Option This Site All WCM Sites Directory Menu Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Medical College Explore this Website Home About UsToggle About Us menu options Message from the Senior Associate Dean Medical Education Program Mission Medical Education Program Objectives Policies & Procedures LCME Review Statement Facilities & Educational Resources Clinical Sites Staff Directory Medical EducationToggle Medical Education menu options M.D. ProgramToggle M.D. Program menu options Curriculum at a Glance Required Curriculum Areas of Concentration Joint Degree ProgramsToggle Joint Degree Programs menu options Tri-Institutional M.D.-Ph.D. Program M.D.-M.B.A. Premedical ProgramsToggle Premedical Programs menu options Travelers Summer Research Fellowship Program Gateways to the Laboratory Program MSHS PA Program Continuing Medical EducationToggle Continuing Medical Education menu options Mission CME FAQs Documents - One-Time Courses Documents - Jointly Sponsored Activities Documents - Enduring Materials Documents - Regularly Scheduled Series Activity Schedules WCMC CME Guidelines Graduate Medical Education Faculty ResourcesToggle Faculty Resources menu options Teaching Opportunities by Role Teaching Opportunities by Course Curriculum Mapping Faculty Development External Faculty Development Programs Medical Education Scholarship & Research Pre-Op Program Program in Family Medicine AdmissionsToggle Admissions menu options Why Weill Cornell? Selection Criteria & Requirements Diversity & Inclusion Admission Timeline How to Apply The Weill Cornell Community Opportunities for Engagement Costs & Aid Technical Standards FAQs Contact Admissions Student ResourcesToggle Student Resources menu options Wellness Student Health ServicesToggle Student Health Services menu options Policies Medical Services Mental Health Services Emergencies Sexual Misconduct & Campus Security Office of Diversity & Inclusion Career Advising & Residency Information Student Handbook Registrar Student Accounting Housing Visiting StudentsToggle Visiting Students menu options Canadian Students FAQ Student Ombudsperson Accessing On-Campus Meeting Space Childcare at Weill Cornell Medicine Office of Academic Achievement Teaching-Learning Environment and Student Mistreatment Student LifeToggle Student Life menu options Academic Calendar Student Groups & Community ServiceToggle Student Groups & Community Service menu options Community Service Groups Pipeline Programs Academic Interest Groups Diversity Organizations Policy and Advocacy Groups Special Interest and Recreational Groups Life in NYC Accessing On-Campus Meeting Space Career Advising & Residency Information Housing Office of Diversity & Inclusion Sexual Misconduct & Campus Security Student Health Services Student Ombudsperson Wellness Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Home About Us Medical Education Admissions Student Resources Student Life Home About Us Medical Education Program Objectives Message from the Senior Associate Dean Medical Education Program Mission Medical Education Program Objectives Policies & Procedures LCME Review Statement Facilities & Educational Resources Clinical Sites Staff Directory Medical Education Program Objectives Knowledge (K) K-1. Describe the basic scientific principles underlying normal development, structure and function of genes, cells, organs and the body as a whole throughout the life cycle. K-2. Describe the etiology and pathophysiology of major diseases and disorders, and their clinical, laboratory, radiographic and pathologic manifestations. K-3. Describe the epidemiology of disorders in populations and approaches designed to screen, detect, prevent, and treat disease in populations. K-4. Describe the spectrum of therapies of common physical and mental disorders and recognize the relative efficacies and common adverse effects of those therapies, and their variations among different patients and populations. Patient Care (PC) PC-1. Perform both a focused and comprehensive history and physical examination, develop diagnostic hypotheses, order and evaluate diagnostic tests, and formulate an appropriate plan of care. PC-2. Perform core technical procedures, as would be expected of a beginning intern, and describe their indications, contraindications, and potential complications. PC-3. Recognize acute, life-threatening conditions and perform measures to stabilize the patient. Interpersonal and Communication Skills (ICS) ICS-1. Communicate with patients and their families, counsel them in an effective, caring, and culturally competent manner. ICS-2. Communicate, consult, collaborate, and work effectively as a member or leader of healthcare teams. Professionalism (P) P-1. Maintain a professional comportment, while demonstrating responsibility, integrity, empathy, reliability, and attention to personal wellness. P-2. Demonstrate the ethical principles that govern the doctor-patient relationship, medical decision-making, and healthcare delivery. P-3. Provide compassionate, unbiased care to patients from diverse backgrounds. Practice-Based Learning and Improvement (PBLI) PBLI-1. Utilize information technology for scientific and clinical problem-solving and decision-making. PBLI-2. Analyze and critically appraise the medical literature. PBLI-3. Apply principles of evidence-based medicine, medical ethics, and cost-effectiveness to diagnosis, prognosis, and therapeutics. PBLI-4. Demonstrate the ability for lifelong self-directed learning. Healthcare Systems (HCS) HCS-1. Discuss the organization, financing, and delivery of healthcare services with particular awareness of healthcare disparities, the needs of the underserved, and the medical consequences of common societal problems. HCS-2. Define the core principles of healthcare quality, patient safety, and interprofessionalism. Scholarship (S) S-1. Define the scientific and ethical principles of biomedical research, including basic, translational, clinical, and population studies. S-2. Identify a scholarly area of interest, formulate an investigative question, develop and implement methods to assess it, and communicate the results. How to Apply FAQs Office of Admissions 445 East 69th Street Room 104 New York, NY 10021 (212) 746-1067 Office of Medical Education 1300 York Avenue, Room C-118 New York, NY 10065 (212) 746-1050 Jump To Top Our Location Medical College Contact Us 445 East 69th Street Room 104 New York, NY 10021 Phone: (212) 746-1067 About Us Message from the Senior Associate Dean Medical Education Program Mission Medical Education Program Objectives Policies & Procedures LCME Review Statement Facilities & Educational Resources Clinical Sites Staff Directory Medical Education M.D. Program Joint Degree Programs Premedical Programs MSHS PA Program Continuing Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Faculty Resources Pre-Op Program Program in Family Medicine Admissions Why Weill Cornell? Selection Criteria & Requirements Diversity & Inclusion Admission Timeline How to Apply The Weill Cornell Community Opportunities for Engagement Costs & Aid Technical Standards FAQs Contact Admissions Student Resources Wellness Student Health Services Sexual Misconduct & Campus Security Office of Diversity & Inclusion Career Advising & Residency Information Student Handbook Registrar Student Accounting Housing Visiting Students Student Ombudsperson Accessing On-Campus Meeting Space Childcare at Weill Cornell Medicine Office of Academic Achievement Teaching-Learning Environment and Student Mistreatment Student Life Academic Calendar Student Groups & Community Service Life in NYC Accessing On-Campus Meeting Space Career Advising & Residency Information Housing Office of Diversity & Inclusion Sexual Misconduct & Campus Security Student Health Services Student Ombudsperson Wellness Care. Discover. Teach. With a legacy of putting patients first, Weill Cornell Medicine is committed to providing exemplary and individualized clinical care, making groundbreaking biomedical discoveries, and educating generations of exceptional doctors and scientists. Weill Cornell Medicine © Weill Cornell Medicine. Privacy & Legal Careers Giving Directory Web Accessibility Assistance