Skip to Main Content Physician Associate Program Physician Associate Program Yale School of MedicineMedical Education Physician Associate Program About Us Admissions Curriculum Life at Yale Alumni FAQ 50th Anniversary Celebration Class of 2017 Celebrates its White Coat Ceremony October 09, 2015 by Jamie Lines, PAS-I Class of 2017 White Coat Ceremony Last week, the Yale Physician Associate Program Class of 2017 celebrated their White Coat Ceremony. In the ceremony, the first year students received their first white coats, which they will wear in many clinical settings throughout the remainder of their PA education. This ceremony highlighted the beginning of each student’s journey to clinical practice, a tradition that has been adopted by PAs as well as many other healthcare providers. At the ceremony, keynote speaker Brian Maurer, PA-C discussed the necessity for healthcare providers to recognize the vulnerability of their patients – and to always strive to be compassionate and humble in their approach to patient care. Mr. Maurer has devoted many years to the promotion of humanities in medicine and has even founded journals in support of developing humane medical practices. After student mentors from the Class of 2016 robed their “littles” in the Class of 2017, all the students recited a professional oath in which they pledged to fulfill many duties that will embody the attributes of a successful and compassionate Physician Associate. Many friends and family, without whom we could not have made it to this remarkable event, joined the Class of 2017 to celebrate this milestone. “The White Coat Ceremony was even more powerful than I had imagined it would be,” said the Class of 2017 President Michelle Giwerc. “It was the culmination of all the hard work and determination that it takes to get into Yale’s PA Program. To get to share this special day with our loved ones, peers, and instructors was an incredible experience!” Many thanks to all who helped to make this event so wonderful! Submitted by MP Orgadmin on October 09, 2015 Tags Education Physician Associates/Assistants Students Events Alumni/ae PO Box 208083 New Haven, CT 06520-8083 Maps & Directions Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 10/24/2019 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [1,4,7,12,71,0,2,3,5,72,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-article-components-news-NewsDetails","modules-article-components-news-news-details-sidebar-NewsDetailsSidebar","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [2,1,5,8,73,0,3,4,74,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-article-components-news-NewsDetails","modules-article-components-news-news-details-sidebar-NewsDetailsSidebar","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}