RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Campus»Experience That Counts Christiana Prucnal presented her research on acute pulmonary embolism at the 2018 annual meeting of the Society of Critical Care Medicine. Experience That Counts 0 By Aneeqah Naeem '20 MD'24 on August 2019 Campus, News, Research, Students A med student’s background in nursing informs her award-winning research to help pulmonary embolism patients. Last fall, Christiana Prucnal ScM’21 MD’21, BSN, won the Joukowsky Student Award for Scholarly Excellence for her summer research project. How she got to that moment isn’t exactly the most straightforward of paths. Prucnal earned her nursing degree from Loyola University in Chicago in 2012. “I was drawn to nursing because I could work closely with people and offer help to those in need. Everything about medicine fascinated me, and although I considered pre-medicine, I could not fathom entering such a long education period without first knowing more of what it would be like,” she says. After graduating, she worked as a cardiac nurse at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago and then an emergency department nurse at Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH). With a few years of medical training, mentoring, and research experience under her belt, she decided she wanted to train as a physician after all. She completed a post-baccalaureate at Northwestern and applied to medical school. Now at Brown, Prucnal’s research focuses on critically ill patients, driven by her desire to provide better care and informed by her work as a night shift nurse in the ED. “As a new nurse working the night shift with little other help, responding to an acutely ill, rapidly deteriorating patient could feel terrifying,” she says. “This made me want to learn everything I possibly could for those patients.” For many patients, recovery after illness was slowed by social determinants of health, such as unstable housing and inequitable legal support, which Prucnal hopes to study as a student in the Primary Care-Population Medicine Program. Prucnal’s award-winning study, which she began at MGH, examined unfractionated heparin, which is one of the most common medicines given for acute blood clots in the lungs (pulmonary embolism, or PE). The drug is often administered to patients with high-risk PEs. When someone has a clot, it can grow and rapidly become life-threatening. Heparin helps to prevent these clots from getting bigger and stops new clots from forming. “The project had additional relevance for me because I knew firsthand that the administration of unfractionated heparin is a relatively nursing-intensive process with frequent blood testing and dose adjustment,” Prucnal says. Once a patient is on the drug, every six hours nurses must perform blood tests in order to see if the dosing is in the effective and therapeutic range. She wanted to know whether this difficult and error-prone process could be improved. “Ultimately, we found that the medication has much more variability than once thought and traditional dosing guidelines need to be re-evaluated,” Prucnal says. Judges were impressed by the clinical relevance of the project and the fact that it had a large sample size of patients, which means the results were stronger. Besides her research, Prucnal is passionate about providing hands-on learning experiences for her peers. Last semester, inspired by her work experience, she led the preclinical elective “Practical Skills in EMS and Disaster Response,” with Maia Dinsmore MD’21 and Ken Williams, MD, professor of emergency medicine. The bulk of the class focused on teaching practical first-responder skills. They also partnered with the Providence Fire Department so med students could ride along with paramedic crews. Prucnal still works part time as an ED nurse at MGH. In her limited free time she loves to be outdoors by the water, hiking, or running. She continues to volunteer with the medical team for the Chicago Marathon every year—one of the few days she loves waking up at 4 a.m. “I’m so fortunate to study and do work that I love. Every time I work a shift at the hospital, I see things I just learned about in my medical school classes,” Prucnal says. “It makes learning that much more rewarding.” Christiana Prucnal emergency medicine EMS heparin PC-PM pulmonary embolism summer research Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Students Honor Anatomy Donors and Families May 2022 0 Made for These Times May 2022 0 Alzheimer’s Prevention, From the Pulpit Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos