Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events For You Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents Give Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University Site Navigation About Mission, Vision and Values Departments Strategic Plan Leadership and Governance Affiliated Hospitals History Accreditation Clery Act Maps and Directions Education Degree Programs Residency Programs Fellowship Programs Faculty Development Continuing Medical Education Visiting Medical Student Programs International Exchange Programs Research Medicine Today Seminar Series Brown Institute for Translational Science Centers, Institutes, and Programs Doing Research at Brown Find a Researcher Innovation & Industry Engagement Library Resources Decoding Disparities Lecture Series Admission & Aid Medical and Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Notice of Nondiscrimination Student Life Student Services Life in Providence Student Groups Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Dashboard Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Programs and Initiatives Search Search Menu Maps and Directions Located in the historic Jewelry District, The Warren Alpert Medical School offers convenient access to downtown Providence and is a short trip from College Hill. Breadcrumb Home About Sub Navigation In This Section Mission, Vision and Values Departments Strategic Plan Leadership and Governance Affiliated Hospitals History Accreditation Clery Act Maps and Directions Visitor Accommodations Spending the night in Providence? See our list of partner hotels that offer discounted pricing. Accommodations Maps and Directions Located in the historic Jewelry District, The Warren Alpert Medical School offers convenient access to downtown Providence and is a short trip from College Hill. Directions The Warren Alpert Medical School building is located at 222 Richmond Street, in Providence's Knowledge District, a short walk from the 143-acre campus of Brown University. By Automobile From points north or south Take I-95 North or South to Exit 22A, Memorial Blvd, in Providence. Memorial Blvd becomes Dyer Street. Continue down Dyer Street for approximately 3/10 of a mile. Then turn right onto Ship Street. Take your first left onto Richmond Street. Our building will be located on immediately on your left. From points east Take I-195 W to the Point Street Exit. (Exit #1A) Take a sharp right onto Point Street. After approximately, 2/10 of a mile, turn left onto Richmond Street. The medical school building is located at 222 Richmond Street, approximately 2/10 of a mile down on your right. By Plane T.F. Green Airport is located in Warwick, about 10 miles south of Providence. InterLink, a train station accessible by skywalk from the airport terminal, is served by Amtrak and Massachusetts Bay Transit Authority (MBTA). By Bus Providence is served by Peter Pan and Greyhound bus lines, which stop in downtown Kennedy Plaza. From there, it's a short walk or taxi ride (less than a mile) to the School. By Taxi Area taxicab phone numbers East Side Taxi 401-521-4200 Economy Taxi 401-944-6700 Rhode Island Taxi 401-272-1222 Parking Role Parking Options Students Medical students have the option of purchasing a permit for the parking garage adjacent to the medical building at an annual cost of $605. Students who wish to purchase a permit should register themselves and their vehicle by visiting https://brown.parkadmin.com/users/. You can then pick up your permit on the main campus at the J. Walter Wilson Building (60 Brown Street, Suite 511). A Brown ID, vehicle registration form, and proof of insurance will be required. Contact Brown’s Transportation Office for more details. Faculty who teach AMS students or hold significant administrative roles Parking will be provided at no cost to eligible faculty on a daily or annual basis as appropriate. To be eligible, you must be actively engaged in direct instruction of students or have a significant administrative role such as course director. Unfortunately, free parking is not available for faculty involved in other activities at the medical school building such as meetings or research. See below for other options. All others (e.g. faculty not included above, meeting attendees, visitors) Individuals can purchase parking in the adjacent parking garage for $15 a day (hourly also available). The garage is open from 6:00 AM until 10:00 PM 7 days per week. A debit or credit card is required for payment--no cash is accepted. Garage parking is not guaranteed and is on a first-come first-served basis. It does fill up on heavy activity days. Metered street parking is available. During normal business hours the Brown shuttle is an option for students, staff and faculty with a Brown ID. Its route includes the Power Street Garage on the main campus, where paid visitor parking is available. It also stops at multiple campus locations, the main entrance of Rhode Island Hospital, and at the Coro Building. Please do not park in the surface lots directly across the street from the medical school’s main entrance. You will be ticketed and possibly towed. Special events In addition to the options described above, special parking arrangements for events can be made through BioMed Facilities Planning and Operations; the requesting party is financially responsible for all associated costs. Email Event Manager Julie Haines for details. Please make arrangements at least 3 business days before your event; requests are based on availability and are not guaranteed Inquiries regarding parking should be directed to medschool-administration@brown.edu. Mailing Information Mailing Address The Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University Box G-M1 Providence, RI 02912 Shipping Address for Express Deliveries (UPS, FedEx, DHL) The Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University Box G-M1 70 Ship Street Providence, RI 02903 Building Address 222 Richmond Street Providence, RI 02903 Visitor Accommodations Spending the night in Providence? See our list of partner hotels that offer discounted pricing. Accommodations Brown University Providence RI 02903 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility Clery Act The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University For You Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation About Mission, Vision and Values Departments Strategic Plan Leadership and Governance Affiliated Hospitals History Accreditation Clery Act Maps and Directions Education Degree Programs Residency Programs Fellowship Programs Faculty Development Continuing Medical Education Visiting Medical Student Programs International Exchange Programs Research Medicine Today Seminar Series Brown Institute for Translational Science Centers, Institutes, and Programs Doing Research at Brown Find a Researcher Innovation & Industry Engagement Library Resources Decoding Disparities Lecture Series Admission & Aid Medical and Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Notice of Nondiscrimination Student Life Student Services Life in Providence Student Groups Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Dashboard Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Programs and Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events For You Give This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Maps and Directions Open details for Maps and Directions Bookmark this Page