Skip to Main Content Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program Yale School of MedicineInterdepartmental Neuroscience Program Academics Outreach Students Faculty Events Contact Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program The interdisciplinary research programs of Yale neuroscience faculty are central to Yale's Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program (INP). This unique, broad-based training program is best described as a "department without walls," with the primary purpose of providing students with a maximum of diversity and depth in the most important areas of neuroscience research. The training program draws on the knowledge and expertise of more than 100 faculty members, representing 20+ departments in both the Faculty of Arts and Science and the School of Medicine, ranging from psychiatry to pharmacology, from cell biology to computer science. Although each faculty member has strong department affiliations, the INP Faculty functions as a cohesive and collaborative unit whose aim is to foster in graduate students an appreciation of and familiarity with the breadth of neuroscience and to create an environment in which students are encouraged to study problems from several perspectives. The INP seeks to produce neuroscientists with both specialized knowledge and a broad-based understanding of the discipline. This is accomplished in part through a core curriculum which is designed to ensure a comprehensive understanding of modern neuroscience. Students complete at least two laboratory rotations in different areas of neuroscience. These basic requirements, in addition to bi-weekly journal clubs, a seminar series and an annual research retreat, expose students to the multi-disciplinary nature of the field in a highly interactive environment. INP Mission Statement The primary mission of Yale’s Interdepartmental Neuroscience Program (INP) is to prepare a new generation of neuroscientists to be forward-thinking leaders in academic research, education, government, industry, and society. Our graduate program draws on the knowledge and expertise of more than 120 faculty members, representing over 20 departments, ranging from psychiatry and pharmacology to cell biology and computer science. Our unique interdepartmental structure encourages students to pursue a breadth of interdisciplinary collaborations, while access to Yale’s state-of-the-art core facilities allows students to conduct groundbreaking, cutting-edge research. Our program, which places a strong emphasis on community and mentorship, fosters a cohesive and supportive environment through student-organized journal clubs, seminars and one-on-one peer mentorship to promote long-term personal growth and professional development. The INP cultivates an inclusive environment free of harassment and espouses tolerance and accountability in the pursuit of exceptional science. Why Yale - Yale INP Recruitment 2020 Watch video Latest News Select Today Previous 7 Days Previous 30 Days Select Dates April 27, 2022 Yale INP Student April Pruitt receives Autism Science Foundation Grant Yale INP second year, April Pruitt, has won one of nine pre and postdoc fellowships nationwide. Read more October 15, 2021 Mid-pregnancy may be defining period for human brain INP Professor Nenad Sestan's new publication in Nature identifies key changes in gene expression and structure within the developing human brain that make it unique. Read more October 01, 2021 Meet the Professor: Damon Clark Damon Clark, a faculty member at the INP, explains his research about how animals extract information from visual patterns in the natural world and how it might help us understand the human mind.Source: Yale News Read more May 31, 2019 ‘A Scientist of Worldwide Impact’ – Todd Constable Honored by His Alma Mater While it’s always an honor to be celebrated for one’s achievements by one’s peers, it’s especially meaningful to be recognized by the people who knew you when you were just starting your scientific studies Read more August 12, 2015 Brain abnormalities are present even before onset of schizophrenia Even before the onset of schizophrenia, irregularities in key brain areas are already present in individuals at higher risk of developing psychosis, a Yale-led study shows. Read more August 04, 2015 Beyond behavior: Frontiers of neuroscience research Driven by scientific curiosity and humanitarian concern, clinical neuroscientist Alan Anticevic, PhD and other Yale researchers are trying to understand the mechanisms of the brain in a deeper, more systematic way for the benefit of people with mental health problems. Read more June 25, 2015 Research in the news: Muscle contraction may contribute to stroke damage, Yale researchers find An investigation of blood flow network in the brain has revealed some surprising behavior of vessels during stroke, according to Yale researchers Read more June 22, 2015 Lasers, magnetism allow glimpses of the human brain at work The work of Joy Hirsch, PhD is featured in an Associated Press article on the White House BRAIN Initiative. Hirsch is professor of psychiatry, of comparative medicine and of neurobiology at Yale School of Medicine.Source: Associated Press Read more July 14, 2014 Coming out of the Shadows I've been taking care of individuals with OCD, teaching students and residents about it, and doing research into its manifestations and causes for a while now. And it continues to amaze me how little this disorder is understood, even by many professionals. Read more July 07, 2014 The Yale OCD Research Clinic Director's Blog Obsessive-compulsive disorder is a remarkable condition. It affects around 2.5% of the population - one person in 40 - and yet is often hidden from view. Some symptoms can seem, to people without the disorder, like everyday thoughts or behaviors that are simply carried to an extreme. Others are so far removed from most people's experience as to be quite alien. This disconnect can be isolating and often leads sufferers to hide their symptoms - sometimes very effectively indeed. Read more Events Jun 20221Today Everyone (Public) 6:30 PM8:00 PMTara Sanft, MD - Maryam Lustberg, MD, MPH - Franklin Brown, PhD, ABPP - Heather Studwell, RN Smilow Shares: Patient & Family Cancer Survivor Series: Late & Long-Term Side Effects of Cancer Treatment Zoom link available after registration Add event to Calendar Jun 20222Tomorrow Yale Only CancelledEmilia Favuzzi, PhD Cancelled: SYNAPSES Seminar Series: “GABA-Receptive Microglia Selectively Sculpt Developing Inhibitory Circuits.” Sterling Hall of Medicine, I-Wing Add event to Calendar Jun 20223Friday Everyone (Public) 7:00 AM8:15 AMLuke Barnard, MD - Jacob Heng, MD, PhD Yale Eye Center Grand Rounds: Case Presentations Add event to Calendar See All Events Download The Calendar Yale University Neuroscience Program, P.O. Box 208074 New Haven, CT 06520 18 Events you could attend in June 2022 Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 03/04/2022 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [4,79,11,89,8,73,0,2,3,5,87,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-HomePageBanner","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-media-components-FeaturedMedia","modules-article-components-news-news-main-list-NewsMainListContainer","modules-events-components-event-lists-UpcomingEventList","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [5,81,7,14,91,10,75,0,3,1,4,89,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-HomePageBanner","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-media-components-FeaturedMedia","modules-article-components-news-news-main-list-NewsMainListContainer","modules-events-components-event-lists-UpcomingEventList","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}