RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Articles»Path to Medicine College Life: Sarah Varela, left, got a jump on her medical education with the help of her mentor Samantha Paul '16 MD'20. Photo by Mary Murphy. Path to Medicine 0 By Amy Anthony on October 2017 Med students mentor high schoolers interested in health care careers. Sarah Varela has known since the seventh grade that she wanted to be a doctor. Specifically, a cardiothoracic surgeon. “My aunt had a rare heart problem, and I got to meet the doctor who did the surgery,” the 17-year-old says. Varela is a senior at William M. Davies, Jr. Career and Technical High School in Lincoln, RI, and one of 50 local high school students who participated last year in the Pathways Mentorship Program at the Warren Alpert Medical School. The program, which was started in 2013 by a group of medical students, connects high schoolers with mentors from the Medical School, the University of Rhode Island nursing and pharmacy schools, and the Bryant University physician assistant program. The program works primarily with students in underserved populations who have a significant interest in the health care field. “We want to make sure we’re reaching out to people we can make a difference with,” says Samantha Paul ’16 MD’20, Varela’s mentor last year. Pathways meets during the fall semester for monthly hands-on health care activities and one-on-one mentoring time. The program concludes in January with a student research presentation. “I liked being able to go inside the Medical School,” Varela says. “My favorite part was the anatomy lab.” Because Varela did so well in the Pathways program, Paul knew she would be perfect for the Brown Pre-College Programs, specifically Summer@Brown, which offers courses for high school students on the University campus for one to four weeks. The Brown School of Professional Studies, which administers the portfolio of programs for middle and high school students, frequently partners with organizations that support students from low-income backgrounds, says Joi-Danelle Whitehead, associate director of Pre-College Programs and Diversity Initiatives. A partnership between Pathways and the SPS Pre-College Programs was established to further support local students interested in pursuing careers in health care fields. Varela was one of six mentees from Pathways this year who received full scholarships to participate in Summer@Brown. Students could choose from any of the 50 courses related to medical and health studies. A few are taught at the Medical School, including “The Body: An Introduction to Human Anatomy and Physiology,” “Hands-On Medicine: A Week in the Life of a Medical Student,” and “Introduction to Medicine: Do You Want to Be a Doctor?”, which is cotaught by Associate Dean of Medicine Julianne Ip ’75 MD’78 RES’81, P’18 and Director of the Anatomy Course Dale Ritter, PhD. The partnership between Pathways and the Pre-College Programs “aligns with the University’s commitment to the local community and increasing access to students from historically underrepresented groups in higher education,” Whitehead says. It also supports academically talented students as they explore future careers in medical or health-related fields, says Abbey Aevazelis, associate director of Pre-College Programs and director of STEM Programs. While participation in the Pathways and the Pre-College programs are no guarantee of future admission to Brown University, these experiences provide a unique opportunity for local students to experience personal growth and academic success at a selective institution, Aevazelis says. “It would be wonderful if this was the start of a long journey with Brown,” she says. Pathways mentors can help mentees decide whether to apply to medical school and guide them through the application process, mentor Kimberly Glerum ’15 MD’20 says. Varela is now looking into summer internships and exploring colleges. Of the Pathways program, she says, “It made me want to be a doctor even more.” Brown Pre-College Programs Dale Ritter Fall 2017 high school Julianne Ip mentors Pathways Mentorship Program School of Professional Studies Summer@Brown Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Students Honor Anatomy Donors and Families May 2022 0 Made for These Times May 2022 0 The Rematch Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos