Skip to Main Content Microbiology Microbiology Yale UniversityYale Combined Program in the Biological and Biomedical Sciences (BBS) Microbiology Track Home Program of Study Research Areas Faculty Admission Requirements Microbiology The Program in Microbiology is a multidepartmental, interdisciplinary Ph.D. program of training and research in the study of microorganisms and their effects on their hosts. The faculty of the program share a commitment to understanding the biology of microorganisms through cellular, molecular, and genetic approaches. The faculty comprise microbiologists in several academic departments at Yale, including Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, Cell Biology, Epidemiology and Public Health, Experimental Pathology, Genetics, Immunobiology, Microbial Pathogenesis, and Molecular Biophysics and Biochemistry. The program is coordinated through the Department of Microbial Pathogenesis. "One of the main strengths of the Microbiology track is that this is a close-knit community – once I got here I quickly got to know everyone in the program, which made for a supportive and welcoming environment. The curriculum allows students the flexibility to tailor their classwork to their individual interests. Team-taught core classes in the department encourage in-depth analytical discussions of primary literature and help students gain familiarity with Yale’s highly accomplished microbiology faculty and their research interests. This pushes us to improve our critical reading skills while opening our eyes to exciting lab rotation opportunities we may not have previously considered. I am truly impressed by the quality of research and collaboration that takes place here at Yale, and I am eager to see what the next few years will bring." Caitlin Moss Microbiology Track Photo Courtesy of Folasade Kammen Boyer Center for Molecular Medicine 295 Congress Avenue New Haven, CT 06510 Maps & Directions Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook Powered by Yale School of Medicine web platforms © 2022 Yale University. Updated 01/21/2021 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [4,79,11,20,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-HomePageBanner","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","common-components-images-Photo","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [5,81,7,14,23,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-HomePageBanner","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","common-components-images-Photo","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}