Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events For You Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents Give Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University Site Navigation About Mission, Vision and Values Departments Strategic Plan Leadership and Governance Affiliated Hospitals History Accreditation Clery Act Maps and Directions Education Degree Programs Residency Programs Fellowship Programs Faculty Development Continuing Medical Education Visiting Medical Student Programs International Exchange Programs Research Medicine Today Seminar Series Brown Institute for Translational Science Centers, Institutes, and Programs Doing Research at Brown Find a Researcher Innovation & Industry Engagement Library Resources Decoding Disparities Lecture Series Admission & Aid Medical and Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Notice of Nondiscrimination Student Life Student Services Life in Providence Student Groups Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Dashboard Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Programs and Initiatives Search Search Menu Reopening Plan -- Frequently Asked Questions Breadcrumb Home About Reopening Plan -- Frequently Asked Questions What do I do if I am exposed to a confirmed or suspected SARS-COV-2 positive patient in the clinical setting? If you are exposed to a confirmed or suspected SARS-CoV-2 positive patient in the clinical setting, refer to the AMS COVID-19 policy for students. All questions related to isolation, monitoring of symptoms and testing should be directed to University Health Services at 401-863-1330. What happens if I have to miss a class while quarantining? You will be asked to provide a doctor’s note from Health Services and subsequently given an excused absence. If necessary, we will work with you to find a time to make up clinical sessions. Am I allowed to travel out of state during the semester? We would encourage you to be judicious with travel, particularly to areas with high rates of SARS-CoV-2 transmission. Any individual arriving from outside of Rhode Island (including domestic and international locations) must follow the current Rhode Island Department of Health guidelines, as applicable. More information can be found on the RIDOH website. Is personal protective equipment (PPE) provided for students? Yes, all three of AMS’s major affiliates have committed to providing PPE to students at the same level as housestaff (that is, residents) at those affiliates. For any issues with obtaining PPE, a student may reach out to their clerkship director, elective director or the Associate Deans for Student Affairs or Medical Education at AMS. I am a clinical faculty member who teaches in the Medical School building. Will I be asked to submit to a SARS-CoV-2 test as part of Brown’s randomized testing strategy? No, only Brown-employed faculty members are part of the Brown testing program. Brown University Providence RI 02903 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility Clery Act The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University For You Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation About Mission, Vision and Values Departments Strategic Plan Leadership and Governance Affiliated Hospitals History Accreditation Clery Act Maps and Directions Education Degree Programs Residency Programs Fellowship Programs Faculty Development Continuing Medical Education Visiting Medical Student Programs International Exchange Programs Research Medicine Today Seminar Series Brown Institute for Translational Science Centers, Institutes, and Programs Doing Research at Brown Find a Researcher Innovation & Industry Engagement Library Resources Decoding Disparities Lecture Series Admission & Aid Medical and Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Notice of Nondiscrimination Student Life Student Services Life in Providence Student Groups Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Dashboard Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Programs and Initiatives Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events For You Give This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Reopening Plan -- Frequently Asked Questions Open details for Reopening Plan -- Frequently Asked Questions Bookmark this Page