Latest information on COVID-19 Skip to Content Skip to Local Navigation Skip to Global Navigation Stanford Medicine Medical Center Development Site Nav Menu See us on twitter See us on facebook See us on linkedin WE ARE ALL PART OF THE EQUATION Stanford Medicine Explore Stanford Medicine Health Care Find a doctor Adult-care doctor Pediatrician or pediatric specialist Obstetrician Clinics & Services Adult care Pediatric care Obstetrics Clinical trials Locations Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Emergency Department Dial 911 in the event of a medical emergency Explore Health Care Learn how we are healing patients through science & compassion Back Research Basic science departments Clinical science departments Institutes Research centers See full directory Research Resources Research administration Academic profiles Clinical trials Funding opportunities See all Professional Training Postdoctoral scholars Clinical research fellows Research News Stanford team stimulates neurons to induce particular perceptions in mice's minds Explore Research Learn how we are fueling innovation Back Education MD program PA Programs PhD programs Masters programs Continuing Medical Education Postdoctoral scholars Residencies & fellowships High School & Undergraduate Programs See all Education Resources Academic profiles School Administration Basic science departments Clinical science departments Alumni services Faculty resources Diversity programs Lane Library Student resources Education News Students from far and near begin medical studies at Stanford Explore Education Learn how we empower tomorrow's leaders Back Give Support Stanford Medicine Support teaching, research, and patient care. Ways to give Why giving matters Make a gift online Support Children's Health Support Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford and child and maternal health Ways to give How your gift helps Make an online gift Back About About us News Contacts Maps & directions Leadership Vision Diversity Global health Community engagement Events How you can help Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Back Site Search Submit Search Query COVID-19 Uncovering the mechanisms behind disease Defining a new standard of care Menu Information on COVID-19 Support Care and Research Donate Supplies Uncovering the mechanisms behind disease Discover the Initiative Defining a new standard of care Invest in Transformations The Biomedical Revolution Is About to Change Everything. You have a role in making it happen. Never in medical history have the prospects for our health been brighter—not just for treating disease, but for predicting and preventing it altogether. Stanford is leading the way. But breakthrough science is costly—and it is not covered by tuition or endowments. As public funding becomes more constrained and more conservative, the threats to innovation are real. Fueling Innovation Support the most promising and creative research underway in America today—work that would languish without philanthropic support. Training the Next Generation Provide outstanding education for tomorrow’s explorers—and making sure we don’t lose a generation of the best talent. Creating New Standards of Care Put everything we learn in the lab to work at the bedside, for patients here at home and around the globe. We Want to Hear From You What area of biomedicine sparks your passions? Contact us to learn how you can get involved. 650.725.2504 medicalgiving@stanford.edu Giving Opportunities Driving powerful transformations in human health. Explore Giving Opportunities “I believe in the importance of what my gift can accomplish, both at Stanford and for the world. I am honored to gift it in my parents’ names.” —Tho Nguyen, Donor to The Campaign for Stanford Medicine Get Involved with Stanford Medicine Support Annual Funds Learn how you can make a difference by giving to one of our annual funds. Cancer Discovery Fund Stanford Health Care Partners Med Fund Join Our Newsletter This quarterly e-newsletter highlights Stanford Medicine news and events. See the Archive Subscribe Leave Your Legacy Learn how you can make a gift as part of your overall estate and financial plans. More Help Us Make A Difference Every dollar you give grows exponentially. It touches the people and projects you directly support, but also every student, every patient, and our entire community—including YOU. Make a Gift WE ARE ALL PART OF THE EQUATION Why Giving Matters Ways to Give Giving Opportunities News Events Contact Us Make a difference. Support us by making an online donation today. Medical Center Development Stanford Medicine News Events Careers Contact Health Care Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Stanford School of Medicine About Contact Maps & Directions Jobs Basic Science Departments Clinical Science Departments Academic Programs Vision Find People Visit Stanford Search Clinical Trials Give a Gift ©2022 Stanford Medicine Privacy Policy Terms of Use See us on Facebook See us on Twitter Stanford University Stanford School of Medicine Stanford Health Care Stanford Children's Health Lucile Packard Children's Hospital Stanford University Healthcare Alliance