Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Med School News Request Info Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Apply Now Contact Us Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Veteran Affairs Visitors Whom to Refer Staff Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Education Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Aging Studies PhD Graduate Medical Education Undergraduate Medical Education Center for Continuing Education (CME) About Us Office of Multicultural Affairs Employee's COVID-19 Information & Guidelines TUSOM Companion App Faculty Affairs Professionalism Program Administration Wellness ~ Get Help LCME Accreditation Mission, Vision, Core Values Teaching Facilities & Hospitals Dean's Open Office Hours School of Medicine Guiding Principles Student Affairs Residency Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Statement Mission and Leadership Accreditation and ACGME Updates Leadership Updates Report A Concern Living in New Orleans Resources for Directors & Coordinators Resources for Residents & Fellows Additional GME Resources TUSOM Companion App Graduate Medical Education Committee Contact Us Resident/Fellow COVID-19 Information GME Policies & Procedures Residency & Fellowship Programs Tulane Resident and Fellow Congress (TRFC) Professionalism Applicant Information Admissions MD Admissions Contact Us Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Departments Clinical Sciences Centers & Institutes Basic Sciences Research Tulane Doctors Our Doctors Our Providers Patient Resources Cancer & Treatment Childhood Cancer & Prevention Clinic Contact Us Contact Us Driving Directions-Maps Free Prostate Cancer Screenings Lodging Neurology Clinic Neurosurgery Clinic Our Locations Our Locations Programs Support Services Tulane Center for Clinical Neurosciences ~ Clinic ~ Services Education About Us Student Affairs Residency Admissions Departments Research Tulane Doctors Apply Give to Med School News Request Info Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Information For... Home / Gregory Bix, MD, PhD, FAHA Gregory Bix, MD, PhD, FAHA Director, Clinical Neuroscience Research Center Professor & Vice Chair of Clinical & Translational Research, Vada Odom Reynolds Chair in Stroke Research gbix@tulane.edu 504-988-3564 School of Medicine Education PhD, Baylor College of Medicine MD, Baylor College of Medicine Fellowship, Pediatric Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA Postdoctoral Fellow, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA Biography Gregory Bix, MD, PhD, FAHA, Professor of Neurosurgery and Neurology at Tulane University, is also currently the Director of the Clinical Neuroscience Research Center, Vice-Chair of Clinical & Translational Research, Department of Neurosurgery, and the Vada Odom Reynolds Chair in Stroke Research at Tulane University. He also holds the position of Clinical Lecturer (honorary) at the University of Glasgow, adjunct Professor at the Queensland University of Technology, Professor (honorary) at the University of Manchester, and is a Fellow of the American Heart Association. He completed his clinical and research training at Baylor College of Medicine, the University of Pennsylvania, and Thomas Jefferson University. He has published more than 50 papers in reputed journals, won several research awards, and is the inventor on several patents for his various scientific discoveries. Dr. Bix is currently the P.I. on 4 NIH R01 grants, 1 NIH R21 and co-Investigator on two NIH R44 SBIR grants. Dr. Bix’s research focus is in the role and therapeutic potential of the extracellular matrix and its receptors in stroke and vascular dementia. Research Dr. Bix is currently studying vascular contributions to cognitive impairment and dementia and the effects of aging in ischemic stroke. Publications - Bix G,et al Endorepellin causes endothelial cell disassembly of actin cytoskeleton and focal adhesions through α2β1 integrin. J. Cell Biol. 2004; 166: 97-109. - Bix G, et al. Endorepellin In Vivo: Targeting the Tumor Vasculature and Retarding Cancer Growth and Metabolism. J. Nat. Canc. Inst. 2006; 98: 1634-1646. - Lee B... Bix, G. Perlecan domain V is neuroprotective and proangiogenic following ischemic stroke in Rodents. JCI. 2011; 121: 3005-23 Research Dr. Bix is currently studying vascular contributions to cognitive impairment and dementia and the effects of aging in ischemic stroke. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University School of Medicine 1430 Tulane Avenue New Orleans, LA 70112 Clinics: 504-988-5800 or 1-800-588-5800 Click Below to Contact School of Medicine: Admissions Administration Tulane Doctors for appointments Maps & Directions TMedWeb Administration Departments & Centers Room Reservations Professionalism/ Environment of Learning GDPR Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices News MAP: HSC Campus Give to School of Medicine Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Annual Doty Compassion Lecture Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University