RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Category: "Alumni" Browsing: Alumni Alumni May 2022 0 Walk With Me Chat with a doctor while getting your steps. Read More Alumni May 2022 0 The Rematch Still the Little Brother: Sachit Singal ’18 MD’22 is hoisted by his exuberant brother-in-law, Anshul Parulkar ’10 MD’18, after learning… Read More Alumni May 2022 0 For the Love of the Ocean State Alumni share why they’ve made their career–and home–in Rhode Island Read More Alumni May 2022 0 A Cheerleader and Advocate A PLME alum returns to her roots Read More Alumni May 2022 0 Overdose Prevention, Delivered A toxicologist is mobilizing addiction treatment in Worcester. Read More Alumni May 2022 0 An A to Z History: Letters from the Medical School Take a walk through the history of the Medical School at Brown, from Aronson to zebrafish. Read More Alumni May 2022 0 Momentum Dean’s success celebrated with scholarship. Read More Alumni May 2022 0 Call Brown An untraditional medical school offers a chance for a second career to a non-traditional student. Read More Obituaries May 2022 0 Obituaries In memoriam Read More Alumni September 2021 0 First Responder Recalls 9/11 Alumnus, EM professor led the Rhode Island Disaster Medical Assistance Team at ground zero. Read More Alumni May 2021 0 Rare Blood Clots More Likely After COVID-19 Than Vaccine New report puts post-vaccine risk in perspective. Read More Alumni March 2021 0 Why are Flies Good at Flying? A complex network of wing, muscle and nervous system genes all contribute to flight performance, researchers find. Read More Alumni July 2020 0 ‘Sex Matters’ in Health Care Women suffer when medicine focuses on men, emergency physician writes in new book. Read More Alumni April 2020 0 Malaria in the Crosshairs In a study that could lead to a new vaccine, researchers have found an antibody that causes malarial cells to… Read More Alumni January 2020 0 Personalized Treatment Genetic testing can change the care, and the lives, of some people with autism. Read More Alumni January 2020 0 Memory Protection A researcher wants to make surgery safer for aging patients’ brains. Read More Alumni January 2020 0 Friends for Life Kids living with type 1 diabetes find joy—and acceptance—at Camp Surefire. Read More Alumni August 2019 0 Heart Hero Your Heart, My Hands: An Immigrant’s Remarkable Journey to Become One of America’s Preeminent Cardiac Surgeons Read More Alumni July 2018 0 The Dealmaking Doctor With a master’s in healthcare leadership from Brown, an ob/gyn refines cancer care in his hometown. Read More Alumni April 2018 0 Drug Extends Progeria Survival A therapy originally developed to treat cancer could help children with this rare, fatal disease to live longer. Read More Alumni December 2017 0 End of the Line In Survivor’s wild finale, urologist Mike Zahalsky doesn’t make the cut. Read More Alumni December 2017 0 He’s a Survivor Alum Mike Zahalsky heads into the finale (mostly) unscathed. Read More Alumni December 2017 0 Burn, Baby, Burn Alliances are in ashes after a particularly stormy episode of ‘Survivor.’ Read More Alumni December 2017 0 The Rise and Fall of the Coconuts In a doubleheader, Dr. Mike’s closest ally is double-crossed. Read More Alumni November 2017 0 A Question of Honor If you happen to have a seatbelt, now would be a good time to put it on. Read More 1 2 Next Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos