RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Category: "Vitals" Browsing: Vitals Faculty May 2022 0 Vaccine Doesn’t Shield Some Cancer Patients Study of vaccinated cancer patients with breakthrough COVID-19 shows 13% mortality rate. Read More Cool Tool May 2022 0 A Breathalyzer for COVID? Researchers develop an RNA-based breath test to detect SARS-CoV-2. Read More Faculty May 2022 0 Many Vets Face Food Insecurity People of color, women, and those with health conditions are among at the highest risk. Read More Research May 2022 0 Alzheimer’s Prevention, From the Pulpit Faith leaders help recruit people of color for a new nationwide study. Read More Alumni May 2022 0 The Rematch Still the Little Brother: Sachit Singal ’18 MD’22 is hoisted by his exuberant brother-in-law, Anshul Parulkar ’10 MD’18, after learning… Read More Faculty May 2022 0 Sickle Cell Crisis Anti-racism and streamlined care go hand in hand in a new Rhode Island program. Read More Faculty May 2022 0 Type 2 Diabetes Skyrockets in Kids Lockdowns and stress may have exacerbated a rise in cases in Rhode Island. Read More Alumni May 2022 0 Walk With Me Chat with a doctor while getting your steps. Read More Faculty May 2022 0 When All Else Fails New technologies prevent drug-resistant pathogens from taking root. Read More Students May 2022 0 Pathways Guide More Students to Medicine Programs offer mentorship and resources to increase access and representation. Read More Ask the Expert May 2022 0 Ask the Expert: Christine Low How has the pandemic affected young kids’ mental health? Read More Ask the Expert August 2019 0 Ask the Expert Should adults get another measles vaccine? Read More Alumni August 2019 0 Heart Hero Your Heart, My Hands: An Immigrant’s Remarkable Journey to Become One of America’s Preeminent Cardiac Surgeons Read More Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos