RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Category: "Students" Browsing: Students News May 2022 0 Students Honor Anatomy Donors and Families The annual Ceremony of Gratitude remembers the lives and generosity of those who give their bodies to medical education. Read More Alumni May 2022 0 The Rematch Still the Little Brother: Sachit Singal ’18 MD’22 is hoisted by his exuberant brother-in-law, Anshul Parulkar ’10 MD’18, after learning… Read More Students May 2022 0 Pathways Guide More Students to Medicine Programs offer mentorship and resources to increase access and representation. Read More Faculty May 2022 0 Opinion: Support Overdose Prevention Centers Physician, medical student urge stronger federal support for harm reduction in the NEJM. Read More News May 2022 0 Graduate Finds Strength in Uncertainty Adriel Barrios-Anderson will deliver the student address at the MD Class of 2022 Commencement ceremony. Read More News May 2022 0 Better Late Than Never The MD Class of 2024 celebrates an in-person white coat ceremony held two years later than usual. Read More News April 2022 0 PLME Named 2022 Truman Scholar The scholarship will help him pursue an education that addresses health care inequalities. Read More News March 2022 0 Working With the Community, For the Community At Providence’s Clínica Esperanza and the Rhode Island Free Clinic, med students volunteer to improve not only health care but… Read More News March 2022 0 What a Match Celebrating in person with family and friends, 144 physicians-to-be learn their residency placements. Read More News March 2022 0 Student Volunteers Connect Patients with Resources Program helps address non-medical needs in a health care setting. Read More News January 2022 0 Empathy, Brain Science Fuel Addiction Research Brown senior studies the neurobiological underpinnings of alcohol and substance abuse disorders with the goal of enabling more effective treatments. Read More News September 2021 0 Message to Aspiring Doctors: Heal Thyselves Appointment of Medical School’s first chief wellness officer emphasizes well-being for future physicians. Read More Campus June 2020 0 Brown Establishes 1st USMLE Testing Site By the time the testing period ends on June 30, nearly 500 regional medical students will have taken their licensing exams at… Read More News June 2020 0 Connecting in a Crisis Med students redeploy used smartphones to help nursing home residents combat isolation. Read More News June 2020 0 Med Students Lead SNMA National Committees Ade Osinubi will co-chair External Affairs, while Eloho Akpovi continues her leadership of Health Policy and Legislative Affairs. Read More News May 2020 0 New MD Finds Hope, Humanity Sheyla Medina MD’20 emphasized the intersection between medicine and humanism in her Virtual Degree Conferral ceremony address. Read More Campus April 2020 0 Using Physics to Help Patients Brown launches a graduate program in medical physics. Read More News April 2020 0 Flatten the Climate Curve OPINION: The consequences of a changing climate on human life could parallel those of COVID-19. Read More News April 2020 0 COVID-19 Jumpstarts Medical Careers Amid the pandemic, more than 30 Alpert Medical students graduate early to begin hospital work. Read More Campus April 2020 0 Essential Volunteers Unable to work with patients, med students help frontline workers by answering phones, distributing PPE, even babysitting. Read More Campus March 2020 0 Students Help Fight COVID-19 When clinical rotations were paused, med students found new ways to support Rhode Island’s frontline health care workers. Read More News March 2020 0 A Virtual Celebration Match Day was a time to celebrate, even without the ability to convene in person. Read More Campus August 2019 0 Experience That Counts A med student’s background in nursing informs her award-winning research to help pulmonary embolism patients. Read More Campus May 2019 0 Curriculum Tackles Opioid Crisis From the classroom to the community, medical students learn to diagnose and treat substance use disorders. Read More News March 2019 0 A Cerebral Celebration For Brain Week RI, students and faculty are bringing brain science to local high schools, planning the annual Brain Fair,… Read More 1 2 3 Next Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos