RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Faculty»Note-worthy Performance Chris Demas MD’21 started playing the violin in fourth grade. Note-worthy Performance 0 By Aneeqah Naeem '20 MD'24 on December 2018 Faculty, News, Residents, Students The Providence Medical Orchestra holds its first concert this Saturday. If you walk through the halls of the Warren Alpert Medical School on a Tuesday evening, you might just catch the sweeping notes of Beethoven’s First Symphony, as a newly minted collection of medical professionals and students rehearse for their first performance as a symphony orchestra. Chris Demas MD’21 says the idea came together this past summer. He picked up the violin in fourth grade and played in orchestras and string ensembles through college. Eager to continue performing in medical school, last year Demas co-directed Healing Through Harmony, a group of volunteers who play music in local hospitals for patients and their families. He also helped organize Musicale, an annual concert where medical students, residents, and physicians share their musical talents. “I thought it was so wonderful that everyone came together for Musicale,” Demas says. “But I was also disappointed because it was just one day. I felt there was so much potential from our community. I always had the thought in the back of my mind of ‘Wouldn’t it be great if we could do something more frequently as a community?’” That opportunity came when Demas learned of John Masko’s move to the Providence area. Masko is the former assistant director of the Yale Medical Symphony Orchestra, which was founded 10 years ago. “It was the perfect opportunity,” Demas says. With funding from the Medical School and Masko’s help, Demas and his co-presidents, Daniel Yang ’19 MD’23 and Alice Huang MD’22, assembled a full orchestra of more than 40 people. Participants range from first-year PLME students to attending physicians. That diversity helps facilitate a very open and receptive environment, Demas says. “It’s a really great way to break down those boundaries in medicine. We might have world-renowned researchers sitting next to medical students, but they share the same passion for making great music. It puts everyone on the same playing field,” he says. “Underlying our passion in music, we’re all these people who are working together and will be working together in the future. So it’s this really great way of connecting with each other.” Medical students and professionals are very busy people. But, Demas says, “You make time for the things you love. I knew that if I stopped doing things like music, I wouldn’t be able to do as well. You need your outlet.” The group tries to make rehearsals as accessible as possible, holding them at the Medical School in the evenings after most physicians and students are done with clinic. “I think it’s really therapeutic to do something that allows you to have meaningful conversations with other people,” Demas says. “It’s a great space for sharing stories and for learning from one another.” The Providence Medical Orchestra will hold its first concert on 7-9 p.m. December 8, 2018, at Sayles Hall. Tickets are free for students with an ID and $5 for all others. Reserve your ticket here. Chris Demas concert music Providence Medical Orchestra symphony Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Students Honor Anatomy Donors and Families May 2022 0 Made for These Times May 2022 0 Many Vets Face Food Insecurity Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos