Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Search this site Medieval Studies Home About People Faculty Contact Information Graduate Program PhD in Medieval Studies MA in Medieval Studies Graduate Students Courses For Current Students For Prospective Students Former Graduate Students Useful Links Undergraduate Certificate Applying for the Certificate Eligible Courses Zones Writing about Events Certificate Advisers YLMS Calendar Welcome Yale’s Program in Medieval Studies is an autonomous interdisciplinary enterprise, with faculty drawn from many relevant humanities departments - Classics, Comparative Literature, East Asian Languages and Literatures, English, French, German, History, History of Art, Italian, Music, Near Eastern Languages and Civilizations, Philosophy, Religious Studies, Slavic Languages and Literatures, and Spanish and Portuguese - along with the Divinity School, the Beinecke Library, and the Yale Institute of Sacred Music. There are some forty faculty members at Yale who work on the various cultures of the Middle Ages. Together we form one of the largest assemblies of specialized medievalists in any university of the United States. Students have access to all of these faculty and to the courses, both graduate and undergraduate, that they offer each term. Read more Events No events to display. News Hidden Gem from the Beinecke: Takamiya 98 March 30, 2022 Jared Brunner, a Yale undergraduate who is majoring in Humanities and Philosophy and pursuing the new Medieval Studies certificate, has written an illuminating piece on the... Undergraduate Certificate in Yale Daily News February 9, 2022 Read about Medieval Studies’ new certificate at YDN! And to learn more about the Certificate, you can find out more here. New Hidden Gem from the Beinecke: Osborn fa38 January 19, 2022 Shahrouz Khalifian, a graduate student in History whose research focuses on the social history of universities in medieval France, has written an insightful article on the... More news... Statement of Support Read the Medieval Studies Program’s statement and pledges on anti-Black racism here. Contact Us chair Emily Thornbury emily.thornbury@yale.edu Program Administrators Julia DiVincenzo, Registrar julia.divincenzo@yale.edu Janice Zocher, Finances and Events janice.zocher@yale.edu Useful Links Archaia Medieval Song Lab Iberian Connections: Medieval and Early Modern Studies and Contemporary Critical Thought Mellon Project: Digitizing Medieval Manuscripts Beinecke Library Sterling Memorial Library English Department Divinity School History Department History of Art Institute of Sacred Music Italian Department Near Eastern Languages & Civilizations Whitney Humanities Center Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Facebook Twitter Flickr YouTube