RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Articles»Found in Translation Found in Translation 0 By Aneeqah Naeem '20 MD'24 on May 2020 Med students formalize their training as bilingual providers. At 14 years old, Yokarla Veras MD’20 ScM’20 was responsible for interpreting whenever her mother went to a doctor’s appointment. Growing up as a bilingual Spanish speaker, she translated difficult medical terms and personal clinical encounters for her family. Pranav Aurora MD’20 ScM’20 witnessed a similar challenge when his grandmother was hospitalized after a stroke and his father had to interpret everything the physician said. “It struck me that my grandmother could never fully express herself to her doctors,” Aurora says. “Her questions and worries were always relayed to the medical team through my dad.” Language barriers can lead to more anxiety for patients and a lower standard of care, according to a study by Associate Dean for Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Joseph Diaz MD’96 RES’99 F’01 MPH’09. He found that patients in Rhode Island with limited English proficiency often lacked access to interpreters, feared disclosing limited English skills, and had providers who overestimated their understanding of English. Training medical students to be multilingual health care providers is one way to facilitate better, more comprehensive physician-patient interactions and ultimately build a more just health care system. But without the right training, they can struggle to meet the needs of patients with limited English proficiency. “Students who have had only a few years of language learning are being asked to jump into [patient]encounters and relay patients’ stories to the other providers on their medical team,” Michael Broder MD’20 ScM’20 says. But even someone with conversational fluency may find their ability to convey health-related information challenging. Veras, Aurora, and Broder, who are all fluent in Spanish, came together in a Primary Care-Population Medicine Program leadership course to create a solution: a formalized certification process for medical students to be trained and recognized as bilingual providers. To achieve certification, all students identified as advanced Spanish speakers must meet with a faculty adviser who evaluates their language skills and determines their preparedness to take a nationally recognized certification test accepted by the Lifespan health system. Once certified, Lifespan gives them a special badge identifying them as a “Bilingual Medical Student.” So far, 14 students have passed the certification exam and, thanks to a generous gift from Pedro Escobar-Rodriguez EMHL’18, MD, a second cohort will be taking the test. Veras, Aurora, and Broder, with support from Associate Dean for Medical Education Paul George ’01 MD’05 RES’08 and Clinical Assistant Professor of Medicine Martha Sanchez, MD, are already seeking to grow the program. “Eventually, we envision expanding this program to include students with knowledge of different languages, so that a large chunk of Brown medical grads will be prepared to enter a workforce that has a need for multilingual providers,” Broder says. “We have an opportunity to use our skills as clinicians in new, creative ways for patients of all backgrounds,” Aurora says. Spring 2020 Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Students Honor Anatomy Donors and Families May 2022 0 Made for These Times May 2022 0 Many Vets Face Food Insecurity Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos