RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»News»Connecting in a Crisis Connect for COVID-19 volunteers John Cotoia ScM'18 MD'23, left, and Dana Phan MD'23 deliver smart devices to Rhode Island assisted living facilities in May. Photo courtesy of Ben Gallo Connecting in a Crisis 0 By Phoebe Hall on June 2020 News, Students Med students redeploy used smartphones to help nursing home residents combat isolation. In March, as medical students across the country mobilized to offer their time and expertise to fight COVID-19, Benjamin Gallo Marin MD’23 got a call from two fellow Princeton alumni. They were organizing an all-volunteer, nationwide project called Connect for COVID-19, and they wanted Gallo to lead their efforts in Rhode Island and New England. Their goal—to gather donated smart devices and distribute them to COVID-19 patients isolated in hospitals—was identical to that of another effort already underway in Rhode Island, COVID Connectors. Gallo reached out to one of that group’s cofounders, Rory Merritt ’09 MD’13 F’19, an assistant professor of emergency medicine. “I wanted to see, how can we help this existing project?” Gallo recalls. He says Merritt told him they had already reached their goal for the state’s hospitals, but there were other patients whom Connect for COVID-19 could help. “So we’ve been focusing our efforts on assisted living facilities and nursing homes,” Gallo says. Long-term care facilities have restricted visitors since the beginning of the pandemic, isolating residents from their families and loved ones. Gallo says it’s been gratifying to hear how helping people stay connected is improving their lives. “They’ve shared images of residents using the devices,” he says of the facilities that have received their devices. “The other day someone sent a picture of this lady playing Candy Crush. We never imagined that to be the intent of it, but it’s a form of escape, so go for it.” So far, the group has gathered more than 400 smartphones, tablets, and laptops, some of them used machines donated by the public, others purchased with $10,000 in cash gifts. For help setting the devices so they’re easy to connect to WiFi, Merritt referred Gallo to Ian Lester, a technology services manager at the University of Rhode Island who had helped COVID Connectors with their devices. “He’s been partnering with us ever since,” Gallo says. “It was nice because here in Rhode Island there was already an existing infrastructure that we could expand on.” Gallo recruited fellow Princeton alum Patrick Wasserman MD’22 and 10 other Alpert medical student volunteers for Connect for COVID-19. They’re now expanding their reach to hospices, and have been talking to YMCAs and community health centers to find out how to help their clients. As a nationwide nonprofit organization (it received 510(c)3 status in May), chapters are able to help each other: Gallo says his group recently sent several devices to New Jersey hospitals. When Gallo isn’t donating his time to Connect for COVID-19, the Nicaragua native volunteers his language skills to translate health information into Spanish for local patients, as well as journal articles with new research on coronavirus and its management that he sends to physicians back home, where “there is no government guidance,” he says. (In April, he coauthored a letter in The Lancet that called out the Nicaraguan government for actively discouraging social distancing.) He’s also helping physicians in Brown’s Division of Global Emergency Medicine, where he’s a research intern, to create COVID-19 educational modules for health care providers in Spanish-speaking countries. “It’s nice to have a local impact [in Rhode Island], but also lend a hand to the people of Latin America,” Gallo says. “It’s been a very active few months, but it’s the least we can do.” Benjamin Gallo Marin COVID-19 volunteering Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Students Honor Anatomy Donors and Families May 2022 0 The Rematch May 2022 0 Pathways Guide More Students to Medicine Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos