RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Alumni»Overdose Prevention, Delivered Kavita Babu ’96 MD’00 RES’04 Overdose Prevention, Delivered 0 By Brian Hudgins on May 2022 Alumni, Alumni Album, Departments, Eye on Alumni, Features A toxicologist is mobilizing addiction treatment in Worcester. Kavita Babu ’96 MD’00 RES’04 never thought she’d be an emergency physician. But following that career path, she says, has turned out to be “awesome.” Babu is chief of the Division of Medical Toxicology at the University of Massachusetts Medical School and the director of Road to Care Mobile Addiction Service. The program, funded by the Massachusetts Department of Public Health, provides clinical care and medications for addiction treatment in a handful of shelters, food pantries, and homeless encampments in Worcester. The program launched in May 2021 to provide education and a lifeline to residents at high risk for overdose and other medical complications associated with substance use disorders. The CDC estimates there were 105,752 drug overdose deaths in the US in the yearlong period that ended last October—15.9 percent more than the previous 12 months. “We are still setting records due to overdose deaths,” Babu says. Babu completed a fellowship in medical toxicology at UMass in 2006 and was working on issues related to prescription opioids when she and her peers witnessed a shift around 2013 and 2014. “Fentanyl created a storm of overdoses in young adults,” she says. “These folks would be found at home and brought to the emergency department. Then we were breaking the news to partners and siblings.” She dreaded informing families of a fatal overdose. But those encounters launched her into the overdose prevention work that has defined much of her career. In 2018, she was tapped to head UMass Memorial Health’s overdose prevention efforts. Then the Worcester commissioner of Health and Human Services approached Babu about a mobile service, and that started the Road to Care rolling. The program’s team consists of five physicians, one physician associate, and a behavioral health coach. They address urgent primary care, mental health, and addiction medicine needs ranging from COVID-19 vaccines to prescriptions for treatments like Suboxone to naloxone distribution. Those duties require Babu to call upon all the lessons she learned from multiple mentors at Brown. “My models from the earliest days were the guys from M*A*S*H,” Babu says. “I wanted to grow up and be a general surgeon. I signed up for an emergency medicine rotation to prepare me for the surgical sub-internships so I could be better suited for the surgical work I had downstream.” Instead, she found her people. “They were decisive, whip-smart, funny, humble, and motivated to improve public health,” Babu says. She credits Marc Shapiro, MD, then the emergency medicine clerkship director, as the person most responsible for her entering the specialty; Angela Anderson, MD, associate professor of pediatrics and of emergency medicine, was one of her first mentors in medical toxicology. “The two of them were incredibly influential,” Babu says. For now, the Road to Care is stationary, with team members meeting about 800 patients at brick-and-mortar facilities. They’ll expand their services once an RV retrofitted as a mobile clinic is ready for use (production was delayed by the pandemic). “The value of having a vehicle as a home base is we will be able to address more people in more locales,” Babu says. “There is a need for expansion in North Central Massachusetts, where we have several hard-hit towns.” Community organization efforts and Road to Care resources in Worcester have helped alleviate treatment gaps. But services are needed in a wide area. “We are going to grow,” Babu says. “All of the visits now are walk-in, free care. We are spending a lot of time at these. We are not going to leave that behind. Hopefully, we will have a mobile unit by the summer.” Spring 2022 Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Made for These Times May 2022 0 Walk With Me May 2022 0 The Rematch Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos