RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»News»Students Honor Anatomy Donors and Families Students filled vases with 52 roses--each representing a donor to the Medical School's Anatomical Gift Program--at the annual ceremony honoring the generosity of those donors and their families. All photos by Ermias Araia '21 MD'25 Students Honor Anatomy Donors and Families 0 By Emilija Sagaityte ’22 MD’26 on May 2022 News, Students The annual Ceremony of Gratitude remembers the lives and generosity of those who give their bodies to medical education. Every year, future medical providers gather around dissection tables in The Warren Alpert Medical School anatomy lab, examining the organs, bones and traversing blood vessels, muscles, and nerves across the landscape that is the human body. These students undergo a particularly intimate educational experience that provides vital knowledge beyond textbook sketches. And it would not be possible without the selfless gift of others: those who choose to donate their bodies to Brown’s Anatomical Gift Program after their deaths. In honor of these individuals, this year’s Ceremony of Gratitude brought their families and the anatomy students together in person for the first time since 2019, to honor the donors’ generous spirit. Medical student Emily Franco “Anatomy is a really big part of our first year, just because it’s a very unique experience that is shared among people in medicine,” said Emily Franco MD’25, who spearheaded a committee of 12 students that organized the ceremony, a years-long tradition at the Medical School. The event did not happen in 2020, due to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, and was held virtually in 2021. But this year, on May 18, donors’ families and students were once again able to come together. Medical, Gateways, and physician assistant students read aloud letters about their personal experiences with anatomy and serenaded the attendees through musical interludes, which featured instrumental and vocal performances. The students’ reflections were grounded in sentiments that were predominantly shared by their classmates. “Grateful,” “thankful,” and “honored” were featured prominently in a word cloud of medical students’ feelings toward the donors that was displayed throughout much of the ceremony. “We are part of a very small population of people who have been granted such intimate access to an experience so human,” Nouran Ibrahim MD’25 told the audience. The ceremony allows students to receive some closure on their time in anatomy and contemplate the value of the donors’ decisions, while families celebrate their loved ones’ memories and appreciate the significance of their contributions, both Franco and Dale Ritter PhD’98, the anatomy course director at the Medical School, said. In her letter, Franco reflected on her questions about her donor: “When we studied the brain, I felt like I was holding [the donor’s]whole lives in my hands—all their memories, thoughts, feelings. I wondered what those memories were. I wondered how we were so fortunate to be the recipients of such a selfless gift and sacrifice.” The ceremony included musical performances by the students. In the 50 or more hours medical students spend in anatomy, they get well acquainted with the physical attributes of the bodies they study, but don’t learn much more about the donors beyond such basic information as age and cause of death, Ritter said. The ceremony is a time to acknowledge the donors’ experiences, characters, and lifetime impacts. Their “gift is a testament to their character, to their passion for education, to their selflessness,” Franco said. The Anatomical Gift Program benefits not only Brown medical students but also those in Bryant University’s physician assistant program, the University of Rhode Island’s physical and occupational therapy programs, and a Providence College undergraduate course, according to Ritter. “I hope I can say we’re all humbled by that gift,” Olivia Nyberg MD’25 said at the event. She added that her grandmother donated her body to a similar program, and acknowledged her “spirit of generosity, sacrifice, and humility with which every individual had given their gift.” While the ceremony can be sad for families, Ritter said he hoped that, for most relatives, hearing these words “reinforced their feeling that what their loved one did was a good thing.” Katie Gallogly Lowell and her son Katie Gallogly Lowell said the event was a means of honoring her mother and father-in-law, both donors. Her mother had been unable to receive a wake and funeral because of the pandemic. “They were both really family oriented” and “selfless” people, she said. “Having this ceremony in a way is a huge part of the closure.” They were two of this year’s 52 donors, each of whom were acknowledged by first name as students passed in front of the audience and placed roses into vases. The ceremony “was so much more than I was anticipating,” Lowell said. “It was very lovely.” Lowell also was reunited at the event with her mother’s hospice physician: Ed Martin ’76 MD’79 MPH’07, Hope Health’s chief medical officer, and a professor of medicine, clinician educator, at Brown. In his keynote address, Martin talked about the value for medical providers of knowing patients as whole people, not just their illness, and the lessons on gratitude that he’s gleaned from some of his patients. Hospice physician Ed Martin, MD He reminded the audience to “let the people close to you—your family, your friends—know how thankful you are for having them in your life.” “For those family members who join us tonight, we can’t thank you enough for this tremendous generosity,” Martin said. “You should be so proud of your loved ones.” In addition to keeping the memories of the celebration’s talks, the family members could read and take home letters written by other first-year medical students, in which they expressed the meaningfulness of the donors’ gift. Toward the end of the ceremony, several family members recalled their relatives’ excitement about contributing to the program, their involvement in health care during their lives, and how much they’re missed, evoking laughter, smiles, and tears from the audience. “I’m so glad that the families were willing to come up and share stories because I think that’s what everyone needed to make it all very real,” Franco said. Alex Philips ’21 MD’25 said that “having a ceremony that honored the sheer amount of learning that took place, and dedication and generosity that our body donors had, was incredible.” Likewise, Kaitlin Powell MD’25 noted that “throughout the year, [it was]kind of easy for me to detach [in anatomy lab]… but hearing [the donors’]names made it more real and reminds you that these were people with lives.” As the evening drew a commemorative close to the donors’ final roles in education, students viewed the experience as one essential but early step in their own lifelong journeys in medicine. Soneida DeLine-Caballero ScM’22, a Gateways student, told the audience, “When it comes to your loved ones’ impact in the world, our future patients can assure you this moment is far from the end.” “I hope you find solace in the fact that your loved ones will be saving lives in the future,” Franco said. “They have laid the foundation for our entire medical careers.” The members of the Ceremony of Gratitude organizing committee – all MD Class of 2025 – were: Jazmin Aceves, Rachel Dumond, Emily Franco, Marina Hahn, Simon Kidanemariam, Olivia Nyberg, Mario Ojadi, Abdi Omar, Victoria Sanchez Guzman, Emma Wilcox, and Katie Zechnich. Anatomy Ceremony of Gratitude donors Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 The Rematch May 2022 0 Pathways Guide More Students to Medicine May 2022 0 Opinion: Support Overdose Prevention Centers Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos