RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Articles»Partners in Health Partners in Health 0 By Phoebe Hall on May 2020 A vascular surgeon works to build healthier communities. When Carla Moreira MD’08 RES’10 was 10, her family emigrated from Santiago, Cape Verde, to Pawtucket, RI, which has the fourth-largest Cape Verdean population in the US. “Growing up in Cape Verde, it felt like a big village raising you,” says Moreira, an assistant professor of surgery. “Coming here and maintaining that sense of community, it felt like home.” The health care system wasn’t as welcoming. At age 14, Moreira, an aspiring doctor, helped her grandfather, who didn’t speak English, navigate his medical care. Though “most of the experiences we had were great,” she was “keenly aware” of how language barriers affected his care. “I couldn’t imagine how it much worse it would have been if I didn’t speak English,” recalls Moreira, who also speaks Cape Verdean Creole, Portuguese, and Spanish. “There’s a lot of things we do in medicine that we can do a lot better,” she adds. Moreira, a vascular surgeon at Brown Surgical Associates, attends health fairs and other events to educate people about the health care system, and helps other providers connect with the diverse communities they serve. “If a patient feels [their doctor]is really invested in their health, understands their living situation and how their disease impacts their lives and vice versa, then that relationship becomes stronger, and you can really work as partners,” she says. WORK VS. LIFE Moreira has a busy practice and serves on several hospital and academic committees—plus she’s a wife and mom to two toddlers. “I’m still trying to find that balance,” she says. CREATIVE PROBLEM-SOLVING Most of Moreira’s work is disease management and preventive care. But she loves being in the OR, where as a surgeon “you’re always strategizing, you always work on trying to improve.” THE MORE YOU KNOW At events like this one for local Cape Verdean women, Moreira tells them how they can “go back to their primary care physician and their local health centers and [build]better trust.” BETTER FOR EVERYONE Moreira is working to diversify the health workforce, which studies show can minimize health disparities and improve patient care “across the board,” she says. ROLE MODEL Moreira—a working-class immigrant who went to public school—regularly reminds students with similar backgrounds who want to be doctors, “If I can do it, you can do it.” Spring 2020 Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Many Vets Face Food Insecurity May 2022 0 Alzheimer’s Prevention, From the Pulpit May 2022 0 Vaccine Doesn’t Shield Some Cancer Patients Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos