Skip to Main Content Pathology Pathology Yale School of MedicinePathology About Clinical Research Education Diversity Faculty News Yale Pathology Labs ExPath Graduate Program in Experimental Pathology ExPath: The path toward understanding the fundamental basis of human disease The Experimental Pathology (ExPath) Ph.D. Program 2019 Yale Pathology ExPath Students on the steps of Brady Memorial Laboratory The Experimental Pathology Graduate Program is committed to building and maintaining a supportive community in which students from diverse backgrounds and experiences are supported in their professional development and social and intellectual goals. We strive to create an inviting environment and institutional culture of inclusivity where every individual’s unique and diverse characteristics are valued and respected. We hope that you will feel well integrated and at home. The ExPath Ph.D. Program emphasizes research on disease mechanisms, built upon a strong foundation of training in cell and molecular biology, biochemistry, genetics and bioinformatics. Students in this program draw upon the wide range of expertise at Yale University in all areas of contemporary biology and pathology. The ExPath program is the home program for most faculty members of the Pathology Department, who share an overarching common goal of training students in understanding the mechanistic basis of human disease. ExPath faculty have great strengths in areas of cell and molecular biology, signal transduction, mitochondrial disease and aging, cytoskeleton, virology, cancer biology, immunology, vascular and endothelial cell biology, bioinformatics, and the study of model genetic organisms (e.g. mouse and yeast). For more information, please see Faculty and Labs. Education ExPath Graduate Program Program Information Program Forms and Documents Application Information Students & Research student news Contact Us ExPath Student Face Page Department of Pathology 310 Cedar Street LH 108 P.O. Box 208023 New Haven, CT 06520-8023 Yale Surgical Pathology, Medical School Receiving 200 South Frontage Road YNHH EP2-631 New Haven, CT 06520 Maps & Directions 66 Events you could attend in June 2022 Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 01/21/2021 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [11,56,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","features-navigation-components-sidebar-navigation-SidebarNavigation","common-components-buttons-Button","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [7,14,58,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","features-navigation-components-sidebar-navigation-SidebarNavigation","common-components-buttons-Button","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}