Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Med School News Request Info Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Apply Now Contact Us Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Veteran Affairs Visitors Whom to Refer Staff Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Education Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Aging Studies PhD Graduate Medical Education Undergraduate Medical Education Center for Continuing Education (CME) About Us Office of Multicultural Affairs Employee's COVID-19 Information & Guidelines TUSOM Companion App Faculty Affairs Professionalism Program Administration Wellness ~ Get Help LCME Accreditation Mission, Vision, Core Values Teaching Facilities & Hospitals Dean's Open Office Hours School of Medicine Guiding Principles Student Affairs Residency Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Statement Mission and Leadership Accreditation and ACGME Updates Leadership Updates Report A Concern Living in New Orleans Resources for Directors & Coordinators Resources for Residents & Fellows Additional GME Resources TUSOM Companion App Graduate Medical Education Committee Contact Us Resident/Fellow COVID-19 Information GME Policies & Procedures Residency & Fellowship Programs Tulane Resident and Fellow Congress (TRFC) Professionalism Applicant Information Admissions MD Admissions Contact Us Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Departments Clinical Sciences Centers & Institutes Basic Sciences Research Tulane Doctors Our Doctors Our Providers Patient Resources Cancer & Treatment Childhood Cancer & Prevention Clinic Contact Us Contact Us Driving Directions-Maps Free Prostate Cancer Screenings Lodging Neurology Clinic Neurosurgery Clinic Our Locations Our Locations Programs Support Services Tulane Center for Clinical Neurosciences ~ Clinic ~ Services Education About Us Student Affairs Residency Admissions Departments Research Tulane Doctors Apply Give to Med School News Request Info Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Information For... Home / L. Gabriel Navar, PhD L. Gabriel Navar, PhD Professor and Chair navar@tulane.edu 504-988-5251 School of Medicine Education PhD: University of Mississippi, Jackson, MS (1966) Postdoctoral Fellowship: University of Mississippi, Jackson, MS (1966-1969) Postdoctoral Fellowship: Duke University, Durham, NC (1972-1973) Biography Dr. Luis Gabriel Navar “Gabby” received his BS from Texas A&M in 1962 and his PhD from the University of Mississippi in 1966 under the direction of Dr. Arthur Guyton and continued as a postdoctoral fellow and faculty member. He served on the faculties of the University of Mississippi and the University of Alabama at Birmingham. In 1988 he joined Tulane University where his is Professor and Chair of the Department of Physiology. He is the co-founder of the Hypertension and Renal Center of Excellence where he served as Director from its inception in 2001 until 2020. Dr. Navar’s research has focused on the importance of the intrarenal and intratubular generation of Ang II and angiotensinogen in Ang II-dependent hypertension and diabetes mellitus. He has over 400 peer-reviewed publications including chapters and reviews. His work has been funded primarily by grants from the NHLBI, NIDDK, and NIGMS and has received numerous awards. He has held leadership roles serving as Councilor and President of the American Physiological Society (APS) and of the Association of Chairs of Departments of Physiology, and as chair of the Leadership Committee of the Council for High Blood Pressure Research of the AHA. Dr. Navar is an active member of many societies including the APS, ASH, ASN, AHA, and SSCI. He has served on study sections (NIH, VA, AHA) and on Editorial Boards for various journals including American Journal of Medical Sciences. Laboratory Members: Akemi Sato, MS – Medical Research Specialist Weijian Shao, PhD – Medical Research Specialist Research Research programs in Dr. Navar's laboratory investigate hormonal and paracrine mechanisms regulating renal hemodynamics, glomerular filtration rate (GFR), and sodium excretion. Intense activity is also focused on the pathophysiology of hypertension and the role of the intrarenal renin angiotensin system (RAS) in altering kidney function to lead to in angiotensin II dependent hypertension Publications PubMed listing for L. Gabriel Navar Areas of Expertise Hypertension Renal Disease Renin-Angiotensin System Research Research programs in Dr. Navar's laboratory investigate hormonal and paracrine mechanisms regulating renal hemodynamics, glomerular filtration rate (GFR), and sodium excretion. Intense activity is also focused on the pathophysiology of hypertension and the role of the intrarenal renin angiotensin system (RAS) in altering kidney function to lead to in angiotensin II dependent hypertension Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University School of Medicine 1430 Tulane Avenue New Orleans, LA 70112 Clinics: 504-988-5800 or 1-800-588-5800 Click Below to Contact School of Medicine: Admissions Administration Tulane Doctors for appointments Maps & Directions TMedWeb Administration Departments & Centers Room Reservations Professionalism/ Environment of Learning GDPR Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices News MAP: HSC Campus Give to School of Medicine Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Annual Doty Compassion Lecture Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University