Skip to Main Content Yale Stress Center Yale Stress Center Yale School of MedicineYale Stress Center Who We Are Research Publications Participate Training Stress Seminar Series Stress Reduction News and Media Welcome to Yale Stress Center Stress is known to play a key role in many chronic illnesses including chronic pain, heart disease, diabetes, and some forms of cancer. But there has been relatively little research on how people manage their response to stress by engaging in behaviors that worsen their health, such as smoking, excessive use of alcohol, and over eating. The Yale Stress Center conducts cutting-edge interdisciplinary research that focuses on developing and testing novel treatments to reverse the destructive effects of stress on integrated brain, body and behaviors. Our goal is to develop new prevention and treatment strategies to decrease the harmful impact of stress on health and increase our ability to regulate stress, promote health and wellness, and have better self-control over addictive behavior. Join Our Team Read more if you are interested in postdoctoral training opportunities. Find out more Happy International Women’s Day from everyone at the Yale Stress Center! We are incredibly grateful for the talented and brilliant women that are a part of our team. Their impactful and important work at the Stress Centre is one of the many reasons why we should celebrate their brilliance today and every day! As women achieve power, the barriers will fall. As society sees what women can do, as women see what women can do, there will be more women out there doing things, and we’ll all be better off for it. Ruth Bader Ginsburg Earn Money / Participate Read more if you are interested in participating in research on stress! Maps & Directions Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 03/09/2022 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [11,4,77,16,28,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-banners-components-Banner","common-components-Quote","features-cta-block-components-CtaBlock","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [7,14,5,79,19,30,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-banners-components-Banner","common-components-Quote","features-cta-block-components-CtaBlock","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}