skip to main content About Leadership Accreditation Academic Departments Administrative Offices Campuses Calendar Committees Directory History Professionalism News Physical Location Health Professions Education Building 8447 Riverside Pkwy Bryan, TX 77807 Education Academic Departments Administrative Offices Current Student Resources Faculty Support Faculty Listing Graduate Studies Medical Education Admissions Degrees & Programs Early Assurance MD Admissions MD/PhD Admissions PhD Admissions Education for Healthcare Professionals Research Research Focus Areas Research Funding Support & Resources Postdoctoral Affairs Research Excellence Awards Academic Departments Core Facilities Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Research Highlights Research Calendar Clinical Clinical Learning Resource Center Patient Care Community Diversity Rapport Society Student Organizations Mini Medical School Alumni COVID-19 Give Search Search Close Menu Collapsed content that can be toggled with the menu button. About Leadership Accreditation Campuses Calendar Directory Academic Departments Administrative Offices History Professionalism News Education Current Student Resources Academic Departments Faculty Support Graduate Studies Medical Education Admissions Degrees & Programs Early Assurance MD Admissions PhD Admissions MD/PhD Admissions EDHP Research Research Focus Areas Research Funding Support & Resources Postdoctoral Affairs Research Excellence Awards Academic Departments Core Facilities Centers & Institutes Undergraduate Research Opportunities Research Calendar Research Highlights Clinical Clinical Learning Resource Center Patient Care Community Diversity Rapport Society Student Organizations Mini Medical School Alumni COVID-19 Texas A&M Health Science Center College of Medicine Created to Serve We were created to boldly serve. For more than 40 years, this mission has not wavered. Our purpose is to treat those among us with the greatest need, and in areas often forgotten by others. We’re challenging age-old beliefs about how medicine is delivered, where it’s delivered. Connected by our values and staunch desire to do more, we’re leading the way for a better future for all. Areas of Excellence Rural and population health We’re bringing health care where it’s needed most. Through our keen focus on rural populations and innovative care delivery, we’re eliminating health disparities throughout Texas. Military medicine We honor Texas A&M University’s rich military legacy. Through our unique relationship with the military academies and veteran populations, we’re improving the lives of military members and their families. Innovation We make the impossible, possible—by creating systems and technologies that address health care’s greatest challenges, and bringing together the brightest minds in health care and engineering. Serving those who serve By serving those who have served us, we’re improving military medicine. We’re discovering the next generation of physicians and scientists with an unmatched heart of service and the dedication and vision to reinvent health care in the 21st century. Read more about Military Medicine Designed for impact We are at the heart of Texas’ most comprehensive health science center, and as such we are able to capitalize on the strength of interprofessional education and the research power of Texas A&M University. With five locations across Texas, including an ever-expanding presence in the Texas Medical Center and with Houston Methodist Hospital, our faculty and students have the opportunity to impact medicine from the big town, to the small town, and everywhere in between. Explore our campuses Transforming medicine through innovation New solutions require a new way of thinking. This means reevaluating how we educate students, bringing different disciplines together and creating new spaces that foster creativity and innovation. Through technology -supported innovation, we’re on the forefront of the next medical revolution. Steeped in tradition and united by values, together we make the impossible, possible. Explore EnMed Bringing it home We take pride in producing excellent physicians who care for their communities and increase access to health care. We believe medicine and technology can find real solutions in health care. We believe in excellent health care for everyone, and we believe in finding the next generation of physicians and scientists to make this possible. Watch Our Story Courtney Welch '01: Heart of a Caretaker Close Facebook Twitter Instagram Linked in RSS YouTube Back to top Institution Health Science Center Dentistry Medicine Nursing Pharmacy Public Health Information Calendars Contact Us Diversity Emergency Information Emergency Plans Maps & Parking Press & Media Title IX Clery Annual Reports Resources Directory Facilities Work Request Howdy Portal Information Technology Intranet Libraries Mental Health Resources Policies Webmail Texas A&M University · Texas A&M University System · State of Texas · Open Records · Risk, Fraud & Misconduct Hotline · State Link Policy · Equal Opportunity / Nondiscrimination · Employment · Texas Veterans Portal · Security · Site Policies · Accessibility