RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Campus»This Is the Way Jeffrey F. Hines ’83 MD’86 delivers remarks at the Opening Celebration for 50 Years of Medicine at Brown. This Is the Way 0 By Kris Cambra on May 2022 Campus, Departments, Letters At Brown, the things that don’t change are more remarkable than those that do. “Content expert.” That’s a title I’ve acquired during the past year as we’ve been planning the 50 Years of Medicine at Brown celebration. Any question about the past, present, or future of The Warren Alpert Medical School lands in my inbox. Most of the time, I know the answer. And while it means a whole lot more work to do, I’ve embraced the moniker. After 21 years of working at the Medical School, how could I not? I’ve worked for six deans, starting with Don Marsh. I’ve sat in six offices, from the low, a rambling shotgun-style building on Eddy Street, to the high, a posh suite on the ninth floor of 121 S. Main St. that overlooked downtown. I’ve had too many bosses to list, but some were the most significant mentors of my career. I was here when the School of Public Health was the Department of Community Health. When 222 Richmond St. was an office building. When I would drive to work on an expanse of highway that is now a pedestrian bridge connecting the Jewelry District to College Hill. But so many things haven’t changed. Like the people drawn to work and study here, who share a passion for confronting medicine’s most vexing problems and finding ways to fix them, even when that might mean disrupting tradition or changing the entire system. When something extraordinary happens, we often shrug our shoulders and say, “Yup, that’s just the Brown way,” and we all understand what that means. It means choosing the path that is right even when it’s harder, or finding the least obvious solution to a problem, and only accepting the answer that benefits the most people, not just some. That’s the enduring core of this medical school and what I feel like we are really celebrating during this 50th anniversary. The Brown way is what keeps me and so many others here for 30, 40, even 50 years. The sense that we are part of something greater than ourselves brings professional satisfaction no matter how big a role we may play. And if my role is keeping the history and telling the stories of this work, then I will choose it every time. Kris Cambra, Editor What’s Your Story? Everyone has a favorite memory of their time as a med student or trainee at Brown. We’re collecting those stories to share on the 50 Years of Medicine website. Send your short (less than 300 words, please) story to med@brown.edu. You can read these reflections at go.brown.edu/50yearsofmedicine. WHAT SAY YOU? Please send letters, which may be edited for length and clarity, to: Medicine@Brown, Box G-P, Providence, RI 02912; med@brown.edu; or via social networks, medicine.at.brown.edu/connect. Spring 2022 Share. Twitter Facebook Google+ Pinterest LinkedIn Tumblr Email Related Posts May 2022 0 Made for These Times May 2022 0 A Cheerleader and Advocate May 2022 0 For the Love of the Ocean State Comments are closed. Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos