Skip to main content  Lewis Katz School of Medicine MENU About About the School Leadership Administrative Offices Alumni Giving News Events Contact Education MD Program Biomedical Sciences Program Physician Assistant Program Postbac Program Urban Bioethics Program Clinical Simulation Center Narrative Medicine Program Continuing Medical Education Graduate Medical Education Student Resources Research About Research Research Administration Clinical Research Regulatory Core Facilities and Services Resources for Researchers Community & Patients Patient Care About Patient Care About Temple Health About the Faculty Practice Search Clinical Trials Departments & Centers Faculty Directory Admissions Alumni Giving Contact Resources For Students For Faculty For Researchers Emergency Preparedness For TFP Physicians & Staff Library Information Technology Services Temple Health Home Education Urban Bioethics Program Print PageText SizeShare Page In This Section Master of Arts in Urban Bioethics The Master of Arts in Urban Bioethics, offered through the Center for Urban Bioethics, is the nation’s only bioethics degree explicitly focused on health equity. The program provides a solid foundation in traditional bioethics along with practical training and resources for understanding and analyzing the ethics, values, and value conflicts present in many dense, disparate, and diverse urban settings. Students who pursue the MA in Urban Bioethics learn how to address inequities of health and issues of access to medical, legal, and other resources that impact health in urban areas. Due to the far-reaching impact of bioethics, we welcome students from a wide variety of educational and professional backgrounds, including medicine, policy, philosophy, research, industry, administration, and law. The MA in Urban Bioethics can be completed as a stand-alone degree or as a dual degree. We offer dual degree programs with medicine (MD), sociology (MA, PhD), and philosophy (MA, PhD). We also offer specialized tracks for Temple University Health System residents in internal medicine, psychiatry, and obstetrics/gynecology. Students who wish only to complet e the core Urban Bioethics courses can earn a Graduate Certificate in Urban Bioethics. Learn More About the Center for Urban Bioethics Center for Urban Bioethics The Center for Urban Bioethics is committed to eliminating health disparities through education and research. Learn More Follow Us on Social Urban Bioethics Program What is Urban Bioethics? Curriculum Dual Degree Programs Admissions Contact Us Stay Connected Contact Lewis Katz School of Medicine Medical Education & Research Building 3500 N. Broad St., Philadelphia, PA 19140 Important Links: Give Now Careers Dean's Office News Events Maps & Directions TUmail TUportal Copyright 2020, Temple University. All rights reserved. Temple Health Terms of Use