Skip to Main Content Genetics Genetics Yale School of MedicineGenetics About Us Jobs Graduate Program Careers & Training Clinical Genetics Diversity Faculty Events News Genetics The information in genomes provides the instruction set for producing each living organism on the planet. While we have a growing understanding of the basic biochemical functions of many of the individual genes in genomes, understanding the complex processes by which this encoded information is read out to orchestrate production of incredibly diverse cell types and organ functions, and how different species use strikingly similar gene sets to nonetheless produce fantastically diverse organismal morphologies with distinct survival and reproductive strategies, comprise many of the deepest questions in all of science. Moreover, we recognize that inherited or acquired variation in DNA sequence and changes in epigenetic states contribute to the causation of virtually every disease that afflicts our species. Spectacular advances in genetic and genomic analysis now provide the tools to answer these fundamental questions. Members of the Department of Genetics conduct basic research using genetics and genomics of model organisms (yeast, fruit fly, worm, zebrafish, mouse) and humans to understand fundamental mechanisms of biology and disease. Areas of active investigation include genetic and epigenetic regulation of development, molecular genetics, genomics and cell biology of stem cells, the biochemistry of micro RNA production and their regulation of gene expression, and genetic and genomic analysis of diseases in model systems and humans including cancer, cardiovascular and kidney disease, neurodegeneration and regeneration, and neuropsychiatric disease. Members of the Department have also been at the forefront of technology development in the use of new methods for genetic analysis, including new methods for engineering mutations as well as new methods for production and analysis of large genomic data sets. The Department sponsors a graduate program leading to the PhD in the areas of molecular genetics and genomics, development, and stem cell biology. Admission to the Graduate Program is through the Combined Programs in Biological and Biomedical Sciences (BBS). In addition to these basic science efforts, the Department is also responsible for providing clinical care in Medical Genetics in the Yale New Haven Health System. Clinical genetics services include inpatient consultation and care, general, subspecialty, and prenatal genetics clinics, and clinical laboratories for cytogenetics, DNA diagnostics, and biochemical diagnostics. The Department sponsors a Medical Genetics Residency program leading to certification by the American Board of Medical Genetics. Admission to the Genetics Residency is directly through the Department. Graduate Program The program of study leading to the PhD degree emphasizes a broad approach to the fundamental principles of genetics, development and molecular biology combined with extensive research training. The program is designed to permit close interaction between graduate students, postdoctoral fellows, and faculty, while also encouraging full participation in the larger community of biological scientists at Yale. Clinical Genetics Yale Clinical Genetics is committed to providing excellent clinical care for adults and children in a setting that values compassion, collaboration, and respect for individuals and families. Latest News May 20, 2022 Single Cell Analysis Technologies Help Generate Unprecedented Maps of Disease Read more May 16, 2022 Pancreatic Cancer: Team Science Propels New Ideas Read more May 11, 2022 Viruses and Cancer: How a 45-year Legacy of Collaboration Led to Discoveries about Epstein-Barr, SV40 Read more May 10, 2022 The Role of Machine Learning Algorithms in Biomedical Discovery Read more More News Sterling Hall of Medicine 333 Cedar Street New Haven, CT 06520 Maps & Directions 7 Events you could attend in June 2022 Calendar Contact Us Intranet Site Editor Accessibility at YSM Terms & Privacy Policy Yale University Yale Phonebook © 2022 Yale School of Medicine. Updated 10/04/2019 Your browser is antiquated and no longer supported on this website. Please update your browser or switch to Chrome, Firefox or Safari. You can update your IE here: https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/help/17621/internet-explorer-downloads [4,79,11,70,88] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-HomePageBanner","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-article-components-ArticleWidget","modules-footer-components-Footer"]} [5,81,7,14,72,90] {"namedChunks":["modules-page-components-ComponentWrapper","modules-banners-components-HomePageBanner","features-generic-content-components-GenericContent","modules-article-components-ArticleWidget","modules-footer-components-Footer"]}