Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Med School News Request Info Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Apply Now Contact Us Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Veteran Affairs Visitors Whom to Refer Staff Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Education Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Aging Studies PhD Graduate Medical Education Undergraduate Medical Education Center for Continuing Education (CME) About Us Office of Multicultural Affairs Employee's COVID-19 Information & Guidelines TUSOM Companion App Faculty Affairs Professionalism Program Administration Wellness ~ Get Help LCME Accreditation Mission, Vision, Core Values Teaching Facilities & Hospitals Dean's Open Office Hours School of Medicine Guiding Principles Student Affairs Residency Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Statement Mission and Leadership Accreditation and ACGME Updates Leadership Updates Report A Concern Living in New Orleans Resources for Directors & Coordinators Resources for Residents & Fellows Additional GME Resources TUSOM Companion App Graduate Medical Education Committee Contact Us Resident/Fellow COVID-19 Information GME Policies & Procedures Residency & Fellowship Programs Tulane Resident and Fellow Congress (TRFC) Professionalism Applicant Information Admissions MD Admissions Contact Us Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Departments Clinical Sciences Centers & Institutes Basic Sciences Research Tulane Doctors Our Doctors Our Providers Patient Resources Cancer & Treatment Childhood Cancer & Prevention Clinic Contact Us Contact Us Driving Directions-Maps Free Prostate Cancer Screenings Lodging Neurology Clinic Neurosurgery Clinic Our Locations Our Locations Programs Support Services Tulane Center for Clinical Neurosciences ~ Clinic ~ Services Education About Us Student Affairs Residency Admissions Departments Research Tulane Doctors Apply Give to Med School News Request Info Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Information For... Home / Robert F. Garry, Jr., PhD Robert F. Garry, Jr., PhD Professor rfgarry@tulane.edu 504-988-2027 School of Medicine Education Postdoctoral Research, Virology, University of Texas at Austin PhD, Microbiology, University of Texas at Austin BS, Life Sciences, minor in Chemistry, Indiana State University Biography Dr. Garry received his B.S in Life Sciences with a minor in Chemistry from Indiana State University in 1978. He then carried out doctoral studies in Microbiology at the University of Texas at Austin under the direction of Dr. Marilynn R.F. Waite and received his Ph.D. in 1978. His dissertation was entitled: "Intracellular sodium and potassium and the regulation of gene expression in virus-infected and virus-transformed chick cells." He carried out postdoctoral research in virology at UT Austin under the mentorship of Dr. Henry R. Bose, Jr. In 1983 Dr. Garry was appointed Assistant Professor of Microbiology and Immunology at Tulane University School of Medicine in New Orleans, Louisiana. In 1985 he was Visiting Professor of Pathology at the University of Southern California working with Dr. Suraiya Rasheed. Dr. Garry spent 1991 as a Visiting Professor of Molecular Biology at the University of Hamburg working with Dr. Gebhard Koch. Since 1993 he has been Professor of Microbiology and Immunology at Tulane Medical School. Dr. Garry has published over 100 papers in the area of retrovirology. Research in the Garry Laboratory focuses on a number of aspects of retroviral pathogenesis. Investigations have found that HIV induces a number of defects in plasma membrane ion transport, which could account for the loss of CD4+ T-cells in AIDS patients. Another research interest is the molecular characterization of an isolate of HIV from a patient who died of AIDS in 1969. This is the earliest confirmed case of AIDS in the United States. In addition, the lab has discovered a retrovirus named human intracisternal A-type retroviral particle (HIAP), which appears to be involved in systemic autoimmune diseases and idiopathic CD4 T-lymphocytopenia. More recently, the lab obtained evidence for the existence of a human endogenous retrovirus named human mammary tumor virus (HMTV), which is a close homolog of a virus which causes breast cancer in mice. Dr. Garry is currently managing a consortium of scientists who are developing countermeasures, including diagnostics, immunotherapeutics and vaccines, against Lassa virus, Ebola and Marburg viruses, and other high consequence pathogens. Our team has produced Lassa fever and Ebola point-of-care and confirmatory diagnostics based on recombinant proteins. A combination of human monoclonal antibodies has been shown to rescue 100% of monkeys even when treatment is initiated at an advanced stage of disease. Studies on a combination Lassa fever and Ebola vaccine for use in West Africa have been initiated. Productive collaborations have been exploited to deepen understanding of the natural history of viral hemorrhagic fevers while providing training for West African scientists and further developing research and clinical trial infrastructure in Sierra Leone and Nigeria. Research Virology Molecular mechanisms of viral pathogenesis Publications Lan MS, Mason A, Coutant R, Chen Q-Y, Vargas A, Rao J, Gomez R, Chalew S, Garry RF, Maclaren NK. HERV-K10s and immune-mediated (type 1) diabetes. Cell 95: 14-16 (1998) Plymale DR, Comardalle A, Fermin CD, Ng Tang D, Lewis DF, Garry RF. HIV-1 kills cells using both apoptotic and necrotic pathways. AIDS 13: 1827-1839 (1999) Deas JE, Thompson JJ, Fermin CD, Liu LL, Martin D, Garry RF, Gallaher RF, Gallaher WR. Viral induction, transmission and apoptosis among cells infected by a human intracisternal A-type retrovirus. Virus Res 61: 19-27 (1999) Karavattathayyil S, Kalkeri G, Gaglio P, Garry RF, Krause J, Dash J, Dash S. Detection of hepatitis C virus RNA sequences in B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Am J Clin Path 113: 391-398 (2000) Kalkeri, G., Garry RF, Fermin CD, Dash S. Hepatitis C virus protein expression induces apoptosis in HepG2 cells. Virology 282: 26-37 (2001) Mendez EA, DeSalvo KB, Cao Y, Garry RF, Espinoza LR. Familial erosive arthritis associated with seroreactivity to human intracisternal retroviral particle type I (HIAP-I). Rheumatology 40: 227-228 (2001) Qi Z, Kalkeri G, Hanible J, Prabhu R, Bastian F, Garry RF, Dash S. Stem-loop structures (II-IV) of the 5' untranslated sequences are required for the expression of the full-length hepatitis C virus genome. Arch Virol 148, 449-67 (2003) Akhter S, Liu H, Prabhu R, DeLuca C, Bastian F, Garry RF, Thung SN, Dash S. Epstein-Barr virus and human hepatocellular carcinoma. Cancer Lett 192, 49-57 (2003) Prabhu R, Garry RF, Bastian F, Haque S, Regenstein F, Thung SN, Dash S. Interferon a-2b inhibits negative strand RNA and protein expression from a full-length HCV1a clone. Exp Mol Path 76, 242-252 (2004) View Selected Publications To view more of Dr. Garry's publications, visit PubMed Research Virology Molecular mechanisms of viral pathogenesis Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University School of Medicine 1430 Tulane Avenue New Orleans, LA 70112 Clinics: 504-988-5800 or 1-800-588-5800 Click Below to Contact School of Medicine: Admissions Administration Tulane Doctors for appointments Maps & Directions TMedWeb Administration Departments & Centers Room Reservations Professionalism/ Environment of Learning GDPR Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices News MAP: HSC Campus Give to School of Medicine Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Annual Doty Compassion Lecture Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University