RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Category: "Hospitals" Browsing: Hospitals Faculty May 2022 0 Vaccine Doesn’t Shield Some Cancer Patients Study of vaccinated cancer patients with breakthrough COVID-19 shows 13% mortality rate. Read More Faculty May 2022 0 Many Vets Face Food Insecurity People of color, women, and those with health conditions are among at the highest risk. Read More Faculty May 2022 0 Type 2 Diabetes Skyrockets in Kids Lockdowns and stress may have exacerbated a rise in cases in Rhode Island. Read More Faculty May 2022 0 Sickle Cell Crisis Anti-racism and streamlined care go hand in hand in a new Rhode Island program. Read More Alumni May 2022 0 For the Love of the Ocean State Alumni share why they’ve made their career–and home–in Rhode Island Read More Hospitals January 2022 0 COVID Still Risky for Cancer Patients Even those who are fully vaccinated have high rates of hospitalization and death with breakthrough infections. Read More Hospitals December 2021 0 Breath Test Detects COVID-19 ‘The Bubbler’ reverse-transcribes RNA from airborne SARS-CoV-2, researchers say. Read More Faculty November 2021 0 Study IDs Vets at High Risk of Food Insecurity People of color, women, and those with health conditions are most likely to experience hardship. Read More Faculty June 2021 0 Small State, Big Child Health Goals A long-term study engages Rhode Island families in research that may help countless children. Read More Faculty April 2021 0 Brown Launches Center for Alzheimer’s Disease Research With $30 million in support, the center aims to accelerate the pace of development for novel treatments and cures. Read More Faculty March 2021 0 Ride to Save Lives Even in a pandemic, cancer research supporters pedal to fundraising success. Read More Faculty July 2020 0 Bridging the Gap Accelerator fund supports biomedical technologies with commercial and therapeutic potential. Read More Faculty May 2020 0 Physician Testifies Before US House Megan Ranney, an associate professor of emergency medicine, urged the Select Subcommittee on the Coronavirus Crisis to ramp up manufacturing… Read More Faculty May 2020 0 Missing Pieces Study finds low proportion of individuals with autism receive recommended genetic tests. Read More Campus April 2020 0 Essential Volunteers Unable to work with patients, med students help frontline workers by answering phones, distributing PPE, even babysitting. Read More Campus March 2020 0 Students Help Fight COVID-19 When clinical rotations were paused, med students found new ways to support Rhode Island’s frontline health care workers. Read More Faculty January 2020 0 Ask the Expert: How can I stay safe in the ice and snow? Alexis Lawrence, MD, is an assistant professor of emergency medicine, clinician educator, at the Warren Alpert Medical School. A Brown… Read More Alumni January 2020 0 Personalized Treatment Genetic testing can change the care, and the lives, of some people with autism. Read More Alumni January 2020 0 Memory Protection A researcher wants to make surgery safer for aging patients’ brains. Read More Ask the Expert August 2019 0 Ask the Expert Should adults get another measles vaccine? Read More Faculty August 2019 0 No Patient is an Island Telemedicine builds bridges to better mental health for the state’s most isolated residents. Read More Faculty August 2019 0 Brain Waves New center at Butler Hospital will study brain stimulation treatments for PTSD and other illnesses. Read More Faculty August 2019 0 In This Together New program targets childhood obesity by helping whole families eat healthier. Read More Faculty November 2018 0 Brain Wave An EEG-based test could improve patient pain assessments and reduce the over-prescription of opioids. Read More Health Discoveries August 2018 0 No More Excuses Regular walking may protect against heart failure after menopause. Read More 1 2 Next Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos