RSS Facebook Twitter Instagram A magazine for friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. Navigate Home Alumni Students Campus Hospitals Research Current Issue Past Issues You are at:Home»Category: "Campus" Browsing: Campus Campus May 2022 0 Made for These Times Meet Mukesh K. Jain, physician-scientist, dog lover, and the eighth dean of medicine at Brown. Read More Alumni May 2022 0 A Cheerleader and Advocate A PLME alum returns to her roots Read More Alumni May 2022 0 For the Love of the Ocean State Alumni share why they’ve made their career–and home–in Rhode Island Read More Alumni May 2022 0 An A to Z History: Letters from the Medical School Take a walk through the history of the Medical School at Brown, from Aronson to zebrafish. Read More Campus May 2022 0 This Is the Way At Brown, the things that don’t change are more remarkable than those that do. Read More Alumni May 2022 0 Momentum Dean’s success celebrated with scholarship. Read More Campus June 2020 0 Brown Establishes 1st USMLE Testing Site By the time the testing period ends on June 30, nearly 500 regional medical students will have taken their licensing exams at… Read More Campus April 2020 0 Using Physics to Help Patients Brown launches a graduate program in medical physics. Read More Campus April 2020 0 Essential Volunteers Unable to work with patients, med students help frontline workers by answering phones, distributing PPE, even babysitting. Read More Campus April 2020 0 Brown Donates PPE to COVID Fight In addition to giving supplies, one lab is mixing a critically needed medium for virus testing. Read More Campus March 2020 0 Students Help Fight COVID-19 When clinical rotations were paused, med students found new ways to support Rhode Island’s frontline health care workers. Read More Campus August 2019 0 Experience That Counts A med student’s background in nursing informs her award-winning research to help pulmonary embolism patients. Read More Campus May 2019 0 Curriculum Tackles Opioid Crisis From the classroom to the community, medical students learn to diagnose and treat substance use disorders. Read More Campus November 2017 0 Fertile Ground for Science Brown’s Herbarium is digitizing tens of thousands of plants preserved over two centuries. Read More Campus April 2017 0 From Bench to Market New biomedical innovation fund makes two grants to accelerate the commercialization of technologies. Read More Campus April 2017 0 Open Up and Say ‘Om’ The Medical School battles burnout with a focus on student resilience. Read More Campus March 2017 0 Maximizing Diversity New federal grant expands initiative to increase PhD student diversity beyond the life sciences. Read More Campus March 2017 0 Meeting Their Match For medical students, the run up to Match Day is a marathon, and it’s tilting uphill. Read More Alumni February 2017 0 Test Could Misdiagnose Diabetes in African-Americans Sickle cell trait may lower blood sugar readings, causing missed diagnoses and treatment. Read More Campus January 2017 0 An Ethical Dilemma New technology could allow creation of fertilized embryos using non-reproductive cells. But at what cost? Read More Alumni December 2016 0 Battling Deadly Fungi Study reveals workings of immune response to deadly fungal infections. Read More Campus November 2016 0 Diagnosis: ‘Residency Placement Fever’ The number of student applications for residency programs has gotten out of hand, researchers say. Read More Campus November 2016 0 A Coach for Insomniacs Brown researchers are developing an interactive sleep app. Read More Campus September 2016 0 Study describes new brain disorder Researchers show how mutations lead to a rare developmental and potentially degenerative disease. Read More Alumni August 2016 0 What would MD’16 do? We asked members of the (recently graduated) MD Class of 2016: What advice would you give to yourself on your… Read More 1 2 Next Twitter Facebook 21h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine In his keynote address, Jeff Hines '83 MD'86 said:“Our mission is what we take away when we leave the medical school here ... We learn to lead. We bridge, we broaden, we innovate, we become accountable. We practice humility, we become relational and transformational." #BrownMD50 twitter.com/BrownUniversit… Expand reply retweet favorite 23h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Typically the #WhiteCoatCeremony is held in the students' first year, but this class had a virtual ceremony due to COVID-19 in 2020. This is an opportunity to physically place that white coat on their shoulders & welcome them into the world of medicine. ow.ly/RS8q50IWlU0 Expand reply retweet favorite 24h The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine Congratulations to members of the MD Class of 2024, who will be receiving their white coats this morning. You can watch a livestream of the ceremony beginning at 11 a.m. @GoldFdtn ow.ly/MhFN50IWlE2 Expand reply retweet favorite 29 Apr The Warren Alpert Medical School @BrownMedicine The official kickoff of #BrownMD50 begins soon! Join the fun online starting at 6:00pm: brown.edu/web/livestream… pic.twitter.com/y8rHbQDu7i Expand reply retweet favorite The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University Join the Brown-Lifespan Center for Digital Health (CDH) and the Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship (NCE) for an afternoon of digital health innovation and entrepreneurship. Eight finalists will be advancing to pitch their digital health applications and platforms to a panel of esteemed judges. The winning team(s) will walk away with up to $25,000 seed funding and ongoing mentorship from CDH leadership.These teams of junior investigators at Brown and Lifespan will be presenting their 5-min pitch for a digital health innovation that focuses on improving population health, public health, and/or health care delivery with an emphasis on health equity.Audience members will have the opportunity to submit feedback and vote on their favorite innovation!Register here: ... See MoreSee Less 10 hours ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University At yesterday's Baccalaureate, Seth Berkley '78 MD'81 gave the annual address to the graduating class. Berkley said he remembered the feeling of excitement mixed with trepidation he felt at his own graduation 44 years ago: “I was… anxious about what awaited me beyond those doors,” he said. “Could I achieve my ambitious goals and make a difference? For me, a middle-class kid growing up in the projects, it was Brown that made me feel like I could.” He encouraged the graduates to fight for what they believed in, despite any criticism they may receive. As director of GAVI, The Vaccine Alliance, it's what he was determined to do as he continued to promote the efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines even as disinformation about the vaccine spread across the United States.“Find what is right for you and do it,” he said. “We need you to become champions of the truth.” ... See MoreSee Less 4 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University A hearty welcome back to alumni joining Reunion this weekend, including our MD'20 class. Details about commencement can be found at commencement.brown.edu/. The ceremony will be livestreamed Sunday, May 29, at 10 a.m. ... See MoreSee Less 5 days ago · View on Facebook · Share Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on Linked In Share by Email About us A magazine for alumni and friends of the Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University. More… Subscribe Now Contact Us Write Us a Letter We really, really want to hear from you. Send Us A Class Note What are you up to? Your classmates want to know. Be Social Connect with us on social media. Flickr Photos