Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Med School News Request Info Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Information For... Search Information for... Alumni Apply Now Contact Us Current Students Faculty & Staff Parents & Families Veteran Affairs Visitors Whom to Refer Staff Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Education Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Aging Studies PhD Graduate Medical Education Undergraduate Medical Education Center for Continuing Education (CME) About Us Office of Multicultural Affairs Employee's COVID-19 Information & Guidelines TUSOM Companion App Faculty Affairs Professionalism Program Administration Wellness ~ Get Help LCME Accreditation Mission, Vision, Core Values Teaching Facilities & Hospitals Dean's Open Office Hours School of Medicine Guiding Principles Student Affairs Residency Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Statement Mission and Leadership Accreditation and ACGME Updates Leadership Updates Report A Concern Living in New Orleans Resources for Directors & Coordinators Resources for Residents & Fellows Additional GME Resources TUSOM Companion App Graduate Medical Education Committee Contact Us Resident/Fellow COVID-19 Information GME Policies & Procedures Residency & Fellowship Programs Tulane Resident and Fellow Congress (TRFC) Professionalism Applicant Information Admissions MD Admissions Contact Us Biomedical Sciences Graduate Program Departments Clinical Sciences Centers & Institutes Basic Sciences Research Tulane Doctors Our Doctors Our Providers Patient Resources Cancer & Treatment Childhood Cancer & Prevention Clinic Contact Us Contact Us Driving Directions-Maps Free Prostate Cancer Screenings Lodging Neurology Clinic Neurosurgery Clinic Our Locations Our Locations Programs Support Services Tulane Center for Clinical Neurosciences ~ Clinic ~ Services Education About Us Student Affairs Residency Admissions Departments Research Tulane Doctors Apply Give to Med School News Request Info Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Information For... Home / Departments / Centers & Institutes / Tulane Center for Aging Tulane Center for Aging An Aging Population The demographic reality today and in the foreseeable future is a graying population, both in terms of an increase in life expectancy and in the number of people over the age of 65. The retirement of the baby boomers, 77 million strong, will place a strain on Social Security and Medicare in the next decades. Only a compression of morbidity, coupled to changes in health systems management and healthcare delivery, can relieve this pressure. This will require significant research effort, in biological sciences, clinical medicine, behavioral and social sciences, as well as demography, economics, and policy planning. The research will engage basic, clinical, and translational scientists in multidisciplinary teams. The issues surrounding the expansion of the elder population transcend medicine and public health. The design and implementation of elder-friendly communities is emerging rapidly with abundant economic impact on this state and country. Furthermore, the increase in elder health that is an essential social and economic imperative will require planning for second and even third careers. The concept of 'active retirement' is taking on new meaning under current economic conditions. This in turn engages universities in forms of continuing education that have yet to be thoroughly explored, and it also has important implications for the model of the workplace. Congratulations to Interdisciplinary Ph.D Student, Lauren Dayan-Hunter Lauren Dayan-Hunter, Student in the Interdisciplinary of Aging Studies Program, has been published in the OMEGA - Journal of Death and Dying. Read More Congratulations to Professor Elizabeth “Liz” Engler-Chiurazzi Elizabeth "Liz" Engler-Chiurazzi, assistant professor of neurosurgery at the School of Medicine, was chosen as one of the 120 If/Then ambassadors. Read More Congratulations to Professor Robert St. Martin Westley Robert St. Martin Westley of the Tulane School of Law, a Center member, wins Provost's Award for Excellence in Equity, Diversity and Inclusion. Read More Mission The Tulane Center for Aging is dedicated to the enhancement of the quality of life of an aging population through research, education, and innovative approaches to healthcare and community planning and design. Vision The Tulane Center for Aging will foster and support the development of research programs across a broad spectrum of disciplines that will provide solutions to the problems associated with aging at the level of the individual, the community, and the population. Special emphasis will be placed on multidisciplinary efforts that harness the extensive resources available at the Uptown and Downtown Campuses and at the Tulane National Primate Research Center. In the process, these efforts will strengthen individual programs, departments, and disciplines throughout Tulane University. They will also contribute to the development of new initiatives. Virtually any area of endeavor at the University becomes a focus for the Center when the dimension of aging is applied. The Tulane Center for Aging will from the outset play a leading role in the strengthening of geriatrics and gerontology training at the University. This will be achieved by coordinating research, training/education, and service efforts. Our long term goal is to create a policy planning think tank that will serve the state and the region. Archived Aging Seminar Series COBRE Grant COBRE Genomics, Biostatistics and Bioinformatics Core Core Current Projects Previous Projects Contact Us Didactic Faculty Director's Message Faculty Giving to the Center Interdisciplinary PhD Program in Aging Studies Application Contact Us Curriculum Dissertation & Graduation Requirements Graduate Student Guidelines Graduate Students Program Committee Lectures & Seminars News & Events Archived News Outreach Research Programs Funding Interview Archives Louisiana Healthy Aging Study Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane University School of Medicine 1430 Tulane Avenue New Orleans, LA 70112 Clinics: 504-988-5800 or 1-800-588-5800 Click Below to Contact School of Medicine: Admissions Administration Tulane Doctors for appointments Maps & Directions TMedWeb Administration Departments & Centers Room Reservations Professionalism/ Environment of Learning GDPR Privacy Policy Notice of Privacy Practices News MAP: HSC Campus Give to School of Medicine Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Annual Doty Compassion Lecture Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University