Skip to Main Content Brown University Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events For You Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents Give Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University Site Navigation About Mission, Vision and Values Departments Strategic Plan Leadership and Governance Affiliated Hospitals History Accreditation Clery Act Maps and Directions Education Degree Programs Residency Programs Fellowship Programs Faculty Development Continuing Medical Education Visiting Medical Student Programs International Exchange Programs Research Medicine Today Seminar Series Brown Institute for Translational Science Centers, Institutes, and Programs Doing Research at Brown Find a Researcher Innovation & Industry Engagement Library Resources Decoding Disparities Lecture Series Admission & Aid Medical and Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Notice of Nondiscrimination Student Life Student Services Life in Providence Student Groups Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Dashboard Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Programs and Initiatives Search Search Menu Date October 25, 2021 All News Share Facebook Twitter Linkedin Email MEDICINE@BROWN: Meet Them Where They Are In courts and in clinics doctors and lawyers combine their power to keep people on the right side of health. On an early summer morning in Lower South Providence, community health worker Anthony Thigpen stands in the parking lot of the Lifespan Center for Primary Care while a stocky, agitated man with tattoos and a muscle T strides back and forth in front of him. “What’s goin’ on, Teddy?” Thigpen says in a warm, low voice. “Talk to me.” Theodore “Teddy” Wright, one week into probation, says that he was explaining to his girlfriend Paula’s landlord that he had tried to fix the broken windows in her apartment—where, by the way, the shower doesn’t work, either—but they had a misunderstanding and the landlord hung up on him, and that just doesn’t sit right. Paula, a petite woman in leggings, paces nearby, occasionally adding details, such as the fact some windows are nailed shut but the one in her granddaughter’s room is actually missing and they’ve been dealing with rain and bugs for four days. She wants to break the lease. He wants a showdown with the landlord. For Thigpen, keeping Paula housed and Wright out of trouble are paramount. “Here’s how we’re going to move forward peacefully,” he says quietly. Over the next 10 minutes tempers cool, fists are bumped, a plan is put in place. Thigpen heads for his SUV, ready to go on his next call. “Hey, Anthony!” Wright calls out across the parked cars. “Much love and respect.” “Love you too, brother,” Thigpen says. Visit Medicine@Brown to read the rest of this story. Meet Them Where They Are Brown University Providence RI 02903 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility Clery Act The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown Social Navigation Facebook Flickr Instagram LinkedIn Twitter YouTube © Brown University Warren Alpert Medical School Brown University For You Future Students Current Students PLME Students Faculty & Staff Residents & Fellows Alumni Parents Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation About Mission, Vision and Values Departments Strategic Plan Leadership and Governance Affiliated Hospitals History Accreditation Clery Act Maps and Directions Education Degree Programs Residency Programs Fellowship Programs Faculty Development Continuing Medical Education Visiting Medical Student Programs International Exchange Programs Research Medicine Today Seminar Series Brown Institute for Translational Science Centers, Institutes, and Programs Doing Research at Brown Find a Researcher Innovation & Industry Engagement Library Resources Decoding Disparities Lecture Series Admission & Aid Medical and Graduate Admissions Financial Aid Notice of Nondiscrimination Student Life Student Services Life in Providence Student Groups Diversity Diversity and Inclusion Action Plan Diversity and Inclusion Initiatives Dashboard Diversity and Multicultural Affairs Programs and Initiatives Topics Biomed Medical School Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation News Events For You Give This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search MEDICINE@BROWN: Meet Them Where They Are Open details for MEDICINE@BROWN: Meet Them Where They Are Bookmark this Page