Penn My tab Penn InTouch Libraries Log in to PennPortal Resources to support student learning Whether you're looking to improve how you take notes during lectures, receive constructive feedback on a writing assignment, or create a study group, Penn provides a variety of academic services and resources to support your learning. Resources for Success for College House Residents Study Strategies Content Tutoring Writing & Research Language Mentoring Academic Achievement Programs Resources for Students with Disabilities Speaking and Presentation ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ STUDY STRATEGIES Office of Learning Resources Weingarten Learning Resources Center 3702 Spruce Street, Stouffer Commons Suite 300 573-9235 The Office of Learning Resources provides individualized instruction in academic reading, writing, time management and study strategies for Penn undergraduate, graduate, and professional students. Appointments are available Monday-Friday, 9-5pm or by walk-in, Monday-Friday, 12-3pm. Study strategy workshops are also offered regularly throughout the fall and spring semesters. back to top CONTENT TUTORING The Tutoring Center 220 S. 40th Street, Suite 260 Philadelphia, PA 19104-3512 215-898-8596 The Tutoring Center offers Penn students a variety of peer tutoring services to supplement the academic support provided by Penn faculty, teaching assistants and learning instructors. Tutorials are generally offered for the core introductory and intermediate undergraduate courses. Tutoring for upper level courses is available on a limited basis. back to top WRITING & RESEARCH The Writing Center - For expert, friendly help with your writing! Make an Appointment: Kelly Writers House (3805 Locust Walk) Sunday through Thursday, 7:00 to 10:00 pm. Center for Programs in Contemporary Writing (3808 Walnut St.) Monday through Thursday, 11:00 am to 7:00 pm Fridays, 11:00 am to 5:00 pm. Weigel Information Commons (Van Pelt Library) Monday through Thursday, 4:00 pm to 7:00 pm . For more information or to schedule an appointment visit: http://writing.upenn.edu/critical/help or call 215-573-2729. Drop In : Center for Programs in Contemporary Writing (3808 Walnut St.) Sunday through Thursday, 7:00 to 10:00 pm. Weigel Information Commons (Van Pelt Library) Sunday through Thursday, 7:00 to 10:00 pm. Office of Learning Resources Weingarten Learning Resources Center 3702 Spruce Street, Stouffer Commons Suite 300 573-9235 The Office of Learning Resources provides individualized instruction in academic reading, writing, time management and study strategies for Penn undergraduate, graduate, and professional students. Appointments are available Monday-Friday, 9-5pm or by walk-in, Monday-Friday, 12-3pm. Study strategy workshops are also offered regularly throughout the fall and spring semesters. Penn Online Research Tutorial (PORT) Sponsored by Van Pelt Library, this website provides step-by-step instruction on issues such as how to design a research topic, strategies for gathering sources, and citing references properly. TeachWeb This website is designed for graduate English students, but it provides useful information and references for writing styles, grammar, citation practices, grading policies, plagiarism policies, and other information you might need for writing papers at Penn. back to top LANGUAGE English Language Program 21 Bennett Hall 898-8681 The English Language Program (ELP) provides courses in English as a second/foreign (ESL/EFL) language and orientation to life in the United States. Through the Intensive Program, students can choose from 35 courses and 8 levels of proficiency ranging from elementary to advanced. The Conversation and Culture program is a four-week program designed for students who would like to improve their conversational skills. For information on course schedules and costs, please contact the ELP. Penn Language Center 715-16 Williams Hall 898-6039 The Penn Language Center is the home for research on and teaching of all foreign languages at Penn. The PLC also directs the Language Direct program in the college hourses. back to top MENTORING Mentor Programs Suite 102, Harnwell College House 898-6440 The Pre-health Professions and Pre-law Mentor Programs are support networks that provide activities, programs, and services to undergraduate students who are interested in pursuing future careers in the health or law professions and are committed to addressing issues of ethnic and racial disparities in underserved communities. Program activities include mentoring by upperclass and professional (medical, law, dental, etc.) school students, workshops, and shadowing. The Office of Academic Enrichment Programs, in collaboration with Penn's professional schools, coordinates the Pre-health and Pre-law Mentor Programs. Penn Mentoring Program (CSE and Chemistry) The Penn Mentoring Program (PMP), in collaboration with the Office of Learning Resources and faculty and staff from Computer Science and Chemistry, matches students who have excelled in their discipline (mentors) with a small group of students taking introductory courses in those disciplines (mentees). The mentors hold weekly group meetings in order to help mentees develop successful study strategies for particular courses. Additional review sessions are offered during exam periods. The program currently supports the following classes: CHEM 101, COLL 110, and CSE 120. Please register online back to top ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENT PROGRAMS McNair Scholars Suite 122, 120 College Hall 898-3115 The McNair Scholars Program is designed for first generation and income eligible students, as well as students from groups which have been traditionally underrepresented at the doctoral level; African American, Latina/Hispanic, or Native American. Penn McNair Scholars are provided research opportunities, mentoring, travel to conferences and graduate schools, and a generous stipend. PENNCAP Suite 102, Harnwell College House 898-6440 PENNCAP(Pennsylvania College Achievement Program) works closely with academically talented students, many from low-income or educationally disadvantaged backgrounds, to support their success during their entire four years at Penn, from matriculation to graduation. A professional staff provides coaching, counseling, academic support, cultural enrichment, and assistance in developing meaningful personal and educational goals. back to top RESOURCES FOR STUDENTS WITH DISABILITIES Student Disabilities Services Office of Student Disabilities Services Weingarten Learning Resources Center 3702 Spruce Street, Stouffer Commons Suite 300 215-573-9235 The Office of Student Disabilities Services (SDS) provides comprehensive, professional services and programs for students with disabilities to ensure equal academic opportunities and participation in University-sponsored events. Located in the Learning Resources Center, SDS collaborates with the Office of Learning Resources to provide comprehensive academic support, including learning strategies that complement accommodations, academic adjustments, and the use of auxiliary aids. back to top SPEAKING AND PRESENTATION Communication Within the Curriculum (CWiC) CWiC Speaking Center 3619 Locust Walk, Room 307 215.746.3613 Email: cwic@sas.upenn.edu CWiC works with students to help them improve their speaking abilities. At the CWiC Speaking Center, speaking advisors consult with students on presentations or help with other oral work, from using visuals to participating in discussion. CWiC also offers students the chance to develop as speakers by supporting speaking-intensive classes, presentation prizes and extracurricular speaking opportunities, and through non-credit workshops. Interested students may also join the CWiC staff. back to top Click on a tab or the BACK button on your browser to return to PennPortal ... Penn home page | Contact Us Copyright © 2022, University of Pennsylvania. All rights reserved.