Skip to main content Utility Faculty Directory Contact Us Virtual Tour Search Menu Close Main navigation About Us toggle sub nav items Leadership and Administration Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Facts & Figures Community Engagement Faculty Resources Staff Resources Duke Health Virtual Tour Alumni Giving Anatomical Gifts Program Calendar of Events Contact Us Education toggle sub nav items Health Professions Education Programs Biomedical PhD Programs Certificate and Training Programs International Experiences Why Choose Duke Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education Duke AHEC Program SoM Bulletin Duke Medical Center Library & Archives Research toggle sub nav items Basic Science Research Clinical and Translational Research Data Science Duke Research and Discovery @RTP COVID-19 Response Research Initiatives Research Support Nobel Laureates Summer Undergraduate Research Opportunities Duke Research Week 2022 Patient Care Departments, Centers & Institutes Newsroom toggle sub nav items News Magnify Magazine DukeMed Alumni News Utility Faculty Directory Contact Us Virtual Tour Home Education Education Students are at the heart of the Duke University School of Medicine. The Duke University School of Medicine comprises a community of scholars devoted to teaching, research, and patient care. Consistently ranked among the nation’s best, the School offers a wide range of health professions programs, certificate and training programs, and biomedical sciences PhD programs which are administered in partnership with Duke’s Graduate School. Additionally, the School of Medicine offers international educational experiences through partnerships with Duke-NUS Medical School in Singapore, Duke’s Global Health Institute, and Duke Kunshan University. All of our educational programs are designed to provide an enriching learning environment that prepares students for the next step in their career paths. The school also offers many Continuing Medical Education opportunities for faculty and providers, training programs in partnership with Duke University Health System and the Graduate Medical Education Office, and pipeline programs for students interested in careers in health care and biomedical sciences. Health Professions Education Programs Biomedical PhD Programs Certificate and Training Programs What Makes Us Unique The School of Medicine offers an innovative curriculum for Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) students, allowing them to study the core basic sciences for one year instead of two and giving them the opportunity to devote their entire third year to a scholarly research project. As part of our newly developed Patient First curriculum, our M.D. students care for patients during their second year, a full year earlier than their peers. Our Duke Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP), trains highly qualified students as physician-scientists, equipping them for solving problems in human disease using the approaches and techniques of the basic biomedical and social sciences. The program, administered in partnership with Duke’s Graduate School, leads to both MD and PhD degrees. Established in 1965, the Physician Assistant (PA) Program at Duke is recognized as the birthplace of the PA profession. The program is consistently ranked as one of the top programs in the nation and is currently ranked No. 1 by U.S. News & World Report. The School offers a new Occupational Therapy Doctorate Program. Launched in 2020, the program welcomed its first class of students in 2021. The School of Medicine is in close proximity and offers collaborative opportunities with Duke’s other professional schools, including the Pratt School of Engineering, Fuqua School of Business, Divinity School, Trinity College of Arts & Sciences, Sanford School of Public Policy, Nicholas School of the Environment, and Law School. Footer Twitter YouTube LinkedIn RSS feed Terms and Conditions medschool.duke.edu | duke.edu | dukehealth.org @2022 Duke University and Duke University Health System. All rights reserved.