Skip to main content Utility Faculty Directory Contact Us Virtual Tour Search Menu Close Main navigation About Us toggle sub nav items Leadership and Administration Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Facts & Figures Community Engagement Faculty Resources Staff Resources Duke Health Virtual Tour Alumni Giving Anatomical Gifts Program Calendar of Events Contact Us Education toggle sub nav items Health Professions Education Programs Biomedical PhD Programs Certificate and Training Programs International Experiences Why Choose Duke Graduate Medical Education Continuing Medical Education Duke AHEC Program SoM Bulletin Duke Medical Center Library & Archives Research toggle sub nav items Basic Science Research Clinical and Translational Research Data Science Duke Research and Discovery @RTP COVID-19 Response Research Initiatives Research Support Nobel Laureates Summer Undergraduate Research Opportunities Duke Research Week 2022 Patient Care Departments, Centers & Institutes Newsroom toggle sub nav items News Magnify Magazine DukeMed Alumni News Utility Faculty Directory Contact Us Virtual Tour A Community of Scholars Devoted to Education, Research, and Patient Care. Recent News Fly Researchers Find Another Layer to the Code of Life May 20, 2022 Meet the School of Medicine’s 2022 Distinguished Professors May 19, 2022 Kenan Senior Fellow Calls on Bioethics to Address Racial Inequalities in Health Care May 19, 2022 Visit our Newsroom Facts and Figures Learn School of Medicine facts, statistics, and key priorities as they relates to Education, Research and Patient Care. Diversity and Inclusion Explore how we are fostering an environment where students, faculty, and staff from varying backgrounds and life experiences feel belonging, engaged, and productive. Virtual Tour Take an interactive, immersive tour of Duke Health’s medical, educational, and research facilities. Moments to Movement Duke University School of Medicine is committed to dismantling racism and to better understanding the root causes, harms, and strategies to reduce racial inequity. This commitment, known as Moments to Movement, extends from within our institutional walls, to our surrounding community, and our nation. Read the Strategic Plan Match Day 2022 On Friday, March 18, 2022, fourth-year medical students at Duke opened their envelopes and learned where in the country they will complete residency training. The ceremony took place in person this year at Trent Semans Center for Health Education, after two years of virtual ceremonies. Students are headed to some of the nation’s most prestigious residency programs, with 27 matching at Duke. Learn more about Match Day Duke Science & Technology Unlocking Secrets of the Brain Duke has long been a leader in brain research and working to find treatments and cures for diseases like Alzheimer's. The new Duke-UNC Alzheimer's Disease Research Center is playing a key role in this effort. Explore Duke Science & Technology Patient Care Community Engagement Giving Footer Twitter YouTube LinkedIn RSS feed Terms and Conditions medschool.duke.edu | duke.edu | dukehealth.org @2022 Duke University and Duke University Health System. All rights reserved.