Contact Us Admissions Fees & Aid Campus Life Support Welcome, High School Counselors! The University of Memphis is grateful to counselors for the incredible support you provide to future Memphis Tigers. You work so hard to help students explore their college and career plans, so we hope our online resource will make your job a little easier. When students add Memphis to their college search, it creates the beginning of an amazing journey. Moments filled with adventure + excitement and options + possibilities. Every Me + Memphis story is unique. Thank you for helping students explore theirs. For students interested in a Me + Memphis path When & How to Apply Applying early in the fall semester is truly the best way to prepare for college enrollment. We advise future Tigers to apply before December 1. We’ll continue rolling admissions review through spring and summer. TIP: When you have a student who is ready to apply, provide them this link to get going: apply.memphis.edu Review Our Admission Checklist > WHAT'S NEW Check out what’s new or modified for our Fall 2022 admissions process Admissions Self-Reported GPA & ACT/SAT Scores Test-Flexible Policy Dual Enrollment Students In an effort to relieve front-end work on counselors, we've expanded our use of self-reported data. This enhancement will expedite file review and return a decision to the student without delays of waiting on official transcripts. (If not admissible based on their self-reported GPA, applicants will be placed in supplemental review status and asked to provide more info and an official seventh-semester transcript for our next review.) Understandably, many seniors are feeling added stress around the college admission process, particularly as it pertains to past COVID-19-related cancellations of ACT and SAT test schedules. The UofM will extend the test-flexible freshmen application reviews for the entering class of fall 2022 admission cycle. This is a one-year extension to the policy to provide an equitable and reassuring response to the needs of future Tigers. Learn more and view FAQs > Did you know UofM hosts the most robust dual enrollment program in TN? Participants meet above average eligibility standards, making them prime candidates for admission. Any senior who enrolls in a UofM dual enrollment course will be granted admission to the UofM as a degree-seeking student for the semester after they graduate. The student must apply and provide necessary documents to enroll. Learn more about our DE program > TIP: While our average GPA for admitted students is 3.4 and our average test score is a 21 ACT/1180 SAT, standardized test scores will not be required for those applying for fall 2022 due to disruptions from COVID-19. Share this news with your students! We’re Posi+ively Different Because of our location and reputation as a major, research-intensive public university, Memphis creates possibili+ies for students few other colleges can. OPPORTUNITY + VALUE We believe income should never get in the way of education. That’s why we’ve had the lowest tuition and fee increases in Tennessee over the past five years. Fees & Aid Potential College-Related Expenses Cost of Attendance (COA) Guide developed by UofM Financial Aid Office: Comprehensive estimate consists of Direct and Indirect Costs related to educational expenses. Direct Costs include tuition/fees and a housing/meal plan if living on campus. Direct Costs are only those expenses billed by the UofM. Indirect Costs include books, travel and miscellaneous expenses and are not billed by the UofM. Here’s what you might expect for an academic year (both fall and spring semesters): Border County Waiver Students who live near Memphis, but not in Tennessee, should check out our Border County Tuition Waiver, a huge cost savings! An applicant residing in the following counties may qualify to enroll at the UofM at the regular in-state tuition rate: Arkansas – Crittenden | Mississippi – DeSoto, Marshall, Tunica, Tate Our Commitment to Affordability: Access Memphis Tuition Cap All full-time, in-state undergraduate students (online or traditional) will only be charged for 12 credit hours. There is no additional tuition charge for hours above 12 credits. We encourage 15 hours to graduate in four years. The tuition cap makes it easier to stay on track while maintaining your costs. Guaranteed Tuition Plan The Guaranteed Tuition Plan provides students with predictable cost for enrolling at the UofM. It's available to all first-time, first-year undergraduate resident, non-resident, international and UofM Global students. Students will be automatically enrolled into the Guaranteed Tuition Plan and are locked into the tuition rate for eight consecutive semesters. A new guaranteed tuition rate will be established each fall. Students may opt-out to the variable rate plan at any point. TIP: If you really want to dive in and compare our tuition and fees by credit hours, try our Cost of Attendance Calculator. Download a PDF to Learn More > Learn More About Access Memphis > Financial Aid Scholarships To be eligible for financial aid, students must complete the FAFSA online. Applications open October 1 and should be completed before March 1 to receive priority consideration for programs with limited funding, including the Tennessee Hope Scholarship. - 003509 is the school code for the UofM - The UofM has hundreds of scholarship opportunities available. Students can use the Tiger Scholarship Manager (TSM) to view opportunities. TSM opens on November 17 with a priority application deadline of March 1. Financial Aid Website > Scholarships Website > ON CAMPUS + ONLINE Explore our 50 majors and 250+ areas of study. Nearly a third of our programs are top-ranked nationally. Academics Business & Economics > Arts & Sciences > Communication & Fine Arts > Engineering > Education > Health Sciences > Nursing > Professional & Liberal Studies > Hospitality and Resort Management > The Helen Hardin Honors College is a top-notch program that brings high-achieving and academically motivated students together for smaller class settings, research opportunities, in-depth discussions and the option to live in the honors living-learning community. Learn more about the Honors College > Check Out the Digital Viewbook Click to expand. Be sure to click around to explore the audio, video, slide shows and other interactive content. ENERGY + SOUL We can’t wait to welcome students to our campus so they can get a real sense of what it’s like to be a Memphis Tiger. Campus Life Before planning a visit, please check here for information and updates about tours. Take a virtual tour of campus anywhere in the world! Explore our Main Campus, Lambuth Campus, Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law and Residence Halls. Use a VR headset for a life-like experience, or view the tours on your desktop or mobile device. Explore the University of Memphis Campus Living On Campus Dining TIP: While no one is required to live in our residence halls, studies show that students who make the choice for campus housing graduate in four years and have higher GPAs. Share the advantages of campus life with your students. Whether it’s a snack or an entire meal, we keep up with what’s popular and in demand. Tiger Dining offers 18 dining locations around campus including favorites like Chick-fil-A, Subway, Starbucks, Panda Express, Dunkin Donuts and more. Explore Residence Hall Options > Learn About Meal Plans + Dining Options > ACADEMICS + LIFESKILLS Having our students’ backs is how we earn and keep their trust. Here's a partial list of our specialized student support offerings. Student Support Academics Health & Accessibility Diversity & Inclusion Center for Academic Retention and Enrichment Services (CARES) CARES assists with identifying and overcoming personal concerns, academic deficiencies and life difficulties that could impair chances of succeeding in college, while helping develop good study habits, self-management and decision-making skills that increase retention and graduation rates for college students. Disability Resources Disability Resources for Students (DRS) arranges, coordinates and provides academic accommodations and support services for qualified students with disabilities. Office of Multicultural Affairs Recognizing that diversity and inclusion are key components to our students' learning experience, we offer a wide range of opportunities for leadership development, programs, events, scholarships, travel and guest lectures to help you embrace the diversity around you. Additionally, OMA challenges you to think critically and lead the way in finding solutions to society's toughest issues. Student Health Center Student Health Center is an accessible, cost effective health care facility that emphasizes campus wide health promotion, disease prevention and acute episodic outpatient medical care. First Generation Student Success The UofM offers multiple programs that are geared to helping first generation college students succeed, and we provide opportunities for them to receive mentoring and holistic development. Stonewall Tigers & LGBTQ+ Resources Access resources and learn more about Stonewall Tigers, our student-led group that aims to create an inclusive space on campus for students, staff and faculty. Counseling Center The Counseling Center provides free counseling, wellness and psychiatric services for University of Memphis students. Explore Additional Student Success Initiatives > Safest Large Campus in Tennessee Ranked #123 in Top U.S. Public Universities TBI Crime on Campus Report 2021 Rankings - U.S. News & World Report LET'S TALK If something you are looking for isn’t here or you or your students have questions, our Tiger team is here to help. Contact Us Request Info > Undergraduate Admissions 901.678.2169 memphis.edu/admissions Lambuth Campus Admissions 731.427.4725 memphis.edu/lambuth Financial Aid 901.678.4825 memphis.edu/financialaid Meet the Admissions Counselor for your area > University of Memphis Admissions | Memphis, TN 38152 Copyright © 2022 University of Memphis The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action. Thank You!