Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Subscribe Ways To Give Contact Prayer Request Search Home Calendar News Featured Posts Blog Posts News Posts Listen Sunday Service Archive Sermons Archive Professor Stephanie Paulsell Professor Jonathan L. Walton The late Reverend Professor Peter J. Gomes Morning Prayers Archive Music Archive Lectures Archive Worship Sunday Services Morning Prayers Compline Baptism Music Harvard University Choir The Choirs Auditions Carols Recordings Ferris Fellows Campaign Harvard Baroque Chamber Orchestra The Organs Harvard Organ Society Programs Student Programs Student Oasis Harvard University Choir Student Deacons Seminarians Porch Christian Impact Church School for Children Faith & Life Forum Grants Committee Resources for Bereavement and Grief Vigils Noble Lecture Staff Clergy & Seminarians Music Department Administrative Staff Church School Staff Student Advisory Board Affiliated Ministers About Our Mission Donate History World War I World War I German Memorial World War I Women of Radcliffe College World War II Memorial Korean War Memorial Vietnam War Memorial Medal of Honor Walter Remsen Brinckeroff Memorial MemChurch Zones Stories Accessibility Directions Parking Venue Bookings Weddings HOME / ABOUT / Donate GIVE NOW ➣ Give to the Memorial Church and support the spiritual and intellectual development of the next generation of Harvard students. How does your gift make a difference? It helps us provide Harvard’s growing, diverse community with the spiritual and intellectual resources to confront life’s challenges with courage, empathy, and an ethic of love. It helps us serve as a valuable site of human connection and social transition for students — a home away from home. It helps us offer a space of grace to all, a place of refuge in an uncertain world. And it helps us to support the work of many Greater Boston charities and non-profits through our local grants program. Your gift will make an immediate impact in supporting the Harvard community and beyond. Ways to Give Pledges, matching gifts, securities transfers, and planned gifts are all very welcome, in addition to outright gifts via cash, check, wire transfer or major credit card. All donations are fully tax deductible, and anything you can offer will be warmly and gratefully received. Mobile To give via credit card, please visit our online giving page. Check Please note that because of the pandemic, we are asking donations to be sent directly to the the bank. Checks may be made payable to "The Memorial Church of Harvard University" and mailed to: Bank of America P.O. Box 419209 Boston, MA 02241-9209 Wire Transfer For wire transfer instructions, contact Charles Anderson at 617-496-1203 or charles_anderson@harvard.edu. Gifts of stock If you plan to give securities, contact the Harvard Management Company at 866-845-6596 to ensure that the securities gift is properly processed and credited. Any other questions about how to make a securities gift can be directed to Charles Anderson at 617-496-1203. For more information about giving opportunities please contact the Church office at 617-495-5508. 53c0f51a7ac20eb2d10410efd9de47a9 Signup for MemChurch news ABOUT Accessibility Directions Parking History Venue Bookings Donate Student Oasis CALENDAR Upcoming Events Sunday Worship Morning Prayers Music Programs OUR PROGRAMS Student Programs Church School Faith & Life Forum Grants Committee MemCafé Noble Lecture Request a Vigil LISTEN Sunday Services Morning Prayers Sermons Music STAFF Clergy & Seminarians Music Department Administrative Staff Affiliated Ministers RELATED SITES Harvard University Choir Harvard Chaplains Harvard Divinity School One Harvard Yard, Cambridge, MA 02138 | Phone: 617-495-5508 memorialchurch@harvard.edu | Fax: 617-496-9166 FALL & SPRING TERM HOURS Sanctuary: Monday-Friday 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Church Offices: Monday-Friday 9 a.m.-5 p.m. Student Oasis: Monday-Friday 9 a.m.-4 p.m. OUR MISSION The Memorial Church of Harvard University is a space of grace in the center of the Yard, rooted in the good news of Jesus Christ. Affectionately known as “MemChurch,” we pursue partnerships within and beyond Harvard, empowering community members to serve the world as well-informed, compassionate, moral citizens. Through worship and ministry outreach, MemChurch aims to promote justice and mercy by confronting life’s challenges, differences, and our own imperfections with courage, empathy, and an ethic of love. By doing so, the Memorial Church seeks to educate minds, expand hearts, and enrich lives. FOLLOW US Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Privacy | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement