Skip Navigation Open Menu Close Menu Mendoza School of Business Mendoza School of Business Open Search Close Search Apply Explore all programs Menu Open Search Close Search Menu All Programs Logo Business Close Modal Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Executive Education Research & Faculty News & Events About Directory Info For Current Students Mendoza Alumni Employers Press Open Submenu Close Submenu MBA One-Year MBA Two-Year MBA Dual Degrees Open Submenu Close Submenu Specialized Masters Accountancy (MSA) Business Analytics (MSBA) Finance (MSF) Nonprofit Administration (MNA) Management (MSM) Open Submenu Close Submenu Executive Education Executive MBA Executive MBA - Chicago Business Analytics – Chicago (MSBA) Executive Master of Nonprofit Administration (EMNA) Open Submenu Close Submenu PhD PhD in Analytics Ph.D. in Management Undergraduate (BBA) Search Search GROW THE GOOD IN BUSINESS TM Watch video PERSONAL GROWTH. BUSINESS GROWTH. SOCIETAL GROWTH. This is not an era for business as usual. Too much is at stake—in our world, in our workplaces, in our communities. This is an era for virtuous individuals, with diverse interests and uncommon potential, to lead human enterprises forward. And this is an era for a business degree that gives those purpose-driven leaders the tools to connect their gifts to a better future for all. Deeper Value, at Every Phase of Professional Development The Notre Dame MBA Take the next step in your career and become the leader that leaders seek. The Notre Dame One-Year MBA The Notre Dame Two-Year MBA Specialized Master's Focus your expertise and extend your impact on any organization. Master of Science in Accountancy Master of Science in Business Analytics Master of Science in Finance Master of Science in Management Master of Nonprofit Administration Programs for Working Professionals Reach beyond your current capabilities, expand your thinking and strengthen your ability to grow the good in business. Master of Science in Business Analytics - Chicago Executive MBA - South Bend Executive MBA - Chicago Executive Master of Nonprofit Administration (EMNA) Undergraduate Program Begin your professional journey with a foundation that will fuel your personal growth, your career in business, and your contributions to society. Bachelor of Business Administration What Interests You? Your next step begins now, with an education that gives you the tools and skills you need to be a leader and a changemaker. At Mendoza, you can choose from full-time, weekend and flexible programs at Notre Dame’s historic campus or in Downtown Chicago. Find the program that best fits your career goals and experience. Start over A fully immersive degree program or learning quickly. I have a full-time job Start over your current interests Experiential learning on the Front Lines We provide real-world experiences that allow all to develop, apply, and hone evolving skills Watch Terrell's MBA story You choose Notre Dame because this is a family that will never let you fail. Watch Lily’s One-Year MBA story We’re here to learn about the process, not to change it but to look at ways to increase their income. Read how MBA students bring business analysis to Amazon products. Learn more about making farinha in Brazil. Integral Leadership Development Chart an individualized professional development path grounded in the creation of shared value Watch Notre Dame’s approach to leadership A Community of Mutual Advancement We nurture a culture in which we succeed together, in solidarity, sharing priorities in recognition of a shared purpose to contribute to human flourishing Watch Fernando’s story A Community of Mutual Advancement We nurture a culture in which we succeed together, in solidarity, sharing priorities in recognition of a shared purpose to contribute to human flourishing Watch Helen’s story As students begin their journey with us, what are the promises that we make to them? Watch Video Rankings & Reputation #8 Alumni Effectiveness THE ECONOMIST (2019) #6 undergraduate business POETS & QUANTS BEST UNDERGRADUATE BUSINESS PROGRAMS (2020) #25 U.S. MBA Forbes (2019) Nowhere but Notre Dame. Notre Dame From our dedicated, award-winning faculty to our values-based curriculum to our magnificent facilities, Mendoza delivers an incredible academic environment that simply cannot be replicated. VIsit Notre Dame Chicago Campus Experience Notre Dame in the heart of downtown Chicago. Learn executive leadership, finance, and business analytics — with the same Notre Dame values based commitment — in our newly renovated space on Michigan Avenue. Visit in Chicago Mendoza News All News Press Releases ‘World at a crossroad’: UBS’ Suni Harford challenges Notre Dame business graduates Faculty in the Media Follow science? Consumers do not always buy scientifically developed products Mendoza Answer: This Mendoza alum won $25,900 on Jeopardy! Faculty in the Media Starbucks joins McDonald’s in exiting Russia Upcoming Events More Events Wed Jun 1 MSM Virtual Summer Office Hours Wed Jun 1 MSBA Chicago – Online Information Session Thu Jun 2 EMBA Chicago Virtual Admissions Office Hours Mendoza School of Business Mendoza School of Business facebook twitter instagram youtube linkedin Contact Us Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty & Staff Openings AACSB Accredited Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame Mendoza College of Business Notre Dame, IN 46556 Accessibility Annual Clery & Fire Safety Reports University of Notre Dame