Skip Navigation Open Menu Close Menu Mendoza School of Business Mendoza School of Business Open Search Close Search Apply Explore all programs Menu Open Search Close Search Menu All Programs Logo Business Close Modal Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Executive Education Research & Faculty News & Events About Directory Info For Current Students Mendoza Alumni Employers Press Open Submenu Close Submenu MBA One-Year MBA Two-Year MBA Dual Degrees Open Submenu Close Submenu Specialized Masters Accountancy (MSA) Business Analytics (MSBA) Finance (MSF) Nonprofit Administration (MNA) Management (MSM) Open Submenu Close Submenu Executive Education Executive MBA Executive MBA - Chicago Business Analytics – Chicago (MSBA) Executive Master of Nonprofit Administration (EMNA) Open Submenu Close Submenu PhD PhD in Analytics Ph.D. in Management Undergraduate (BBA) Search Search Home/Mendoza Directory/Profile Sandra Vera-Munoz Deloitte Foundation Department Chair of Accountancy and Associate Professor Accountancy 574-631-9041 sveramun@nd.edu 389B Mendoza College of Business Download CV http://mendoza.nd.edu/research-and-faculty/directory/sandra-vera-munoz/ Google Scholar SSRN Orcid Biography Background Publications Awards Grants Media Sandra C. Vera-Muñoz is the Deloitte Foundation Accountancy Department Chair. She currently teaches Sustainability Accounting and Reporting and Impact Investing and Strategic Cost Management. Her research focuses on climate risk disclosures and assurance, and judgment and decision making. She received a B.B.A. (Accounting) from the University of Puerto Rico, an MBA from Penn State University, and a Ph.D. (Accounting) from the University of Texas at Austin. Her dissertation on accounting knowledge and opportunity costs was honored with the AAA/ABO Outstanding Dissertation Award. She has published in The Accounting Review, Contemporary Accounting Research, Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory, Accounting Horizons, Accounting, Organizations and Society, and the Journal of Business Ethics, among others. She served on the editorial boards of the Journal of International Accounting Research, Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory, The Accounting Review, and Contemporary Accounting Research, among others. She has been invited to present at numerous research presentations at national and international research conferences. Her 2014 article in The Accounting Review on carbon emissions and carbon disclosures has been cited more than 700 times. Vera-Muñoz has served on the AAA/Grant Thornton Doctoral Dissertation Award Committee, the AAA/Publications Committee, the New Faculty Consortium Planning Committee, and as a faculty liaison with KPMG. At Notre Dame, Sandra serves on the Department Chairs Advisory Group to the Provost, the Search Committee for the Associate Vice President for Undergraduate Enrollment, and is a faculty mentor for underrepresented minority students through the Building Bridges Program. She has served on the Ryan Ethics Chair Search Committee and the Sustainability Strategy Standing Committee. For her spirit of service and academic accomplishments, Professor Vera-Muñoz was named to the 2021 Notre Dame All-Faculty Team. Education BBA, University of Puerto Rico MBA, Penn State University C.P.A., State of Texas Ph D, University of Texas at Austin Areas of Expertise Corporate environmental disclosures Assurance on sustainability disclosures Judgment and decision making Editorial Boards Ad Hoc Reviewer Accounting Horizons Ad Hoc Reviewer Advances in Accounting Behavioral Research Ad Hoc Reviewer Advances in Accounting Education Ad Hoc Reviewer Decision Sciences Journal Ad Hoc Reviewer Issues in Accounting Education Ad Hoc Reviewer Journal of Management Accounting Research Ad Hoc Reviewer Contemporary Accounting Research Conference 2007 Ad Hoc Reviewer The Accounting Review August 31, 1994 Associate Editor Journal of International Accounting Research June 1, 2017 - June, 2020 Editorial Board Member Auditing: A Journal of Practice & Theory 2014 - 2017 Ad Hoc Reviewer Management Accounting Reseach Conference January 5, 2017 - January 7, 2017 Editorial Board Member Behavioral Research in Accounting January, 2013 - December, 2015 Editorial Board Member Advances in Accounting 2006 - 2015 Editorial Board Member Journal of International Accounting Research January, 2014 - December, 2014 Editorial Board Member Contemporary Accounting Research 2010 - 2013 Editorial Board Member The Accounting Review April, 2003 - December, 2005 Ad Hoc Reviewer AAA/Taiwan Accounting Association Globalization Conference 1999 - 1999 "Climate-Risk Materiality and Firm Risk", (With Ella Mae Matsumura, Rachna Prakash), Review of Accounting Studies - Accepted (awaiting publication) "Communicating assurance using pratitioner-customized procedures: An experiment and emerging research opportunities", (With Lisa Gaynor, William Kinney, Jr.), Auditing: A Journal of Practice and Theory, 39, 2020 "Commentary on The effect of an audit judgment rule on audit committee members' professional skepticism: The case of accounting estimates (Kang, Trotman, and Trotman)", Accounting, Organizations & Society, 46, 2015 "Firm-value effects of carbon emissions and carbon disclosures", (With Ella Matsumura, Rachna Prakash), The Accounting Review, 29, 2014 "Carbon Footprint Stomps on Firm Value", (With Ella Mae Matsumura, Rashna Prakash), KPMG's Global Valuation Institute, 2013 "Competitive forces and the importance of management control systems in emerging-economy firms: The moderating effect of international market orientation", (With Neale O'Connor, Francis Chan), Accounting, Organizations and Society, 36, 2011 "Exploring the extent and determinants of knowledge sharing in audit engagements", (With Chee Chow, Joanna Ho), Asia-Pacific Journal of Accounting and Economics, 15, 2008 "Corporate governance reforms: Redefined expectations of audit committee responsibilities and effectiveness", (Reprint) Fundamentals of Corporate Governance, SAGE Publications, London, 2007 "Accountants' usage of causal business models in the presence of benchmark data: A note", (With Margaret Shackell-Dowell, Marc Buehner), Contemporary Accounting Research, 24, 2007 "Enhancing knowledge sharing in public accounting firms", (With Joanna Ho, Chee Chow), Accounting Horizons/American Accounting Association, 20, 2006 "Corporate governance reforms: Redefined expectations of audit committee responsibilities and effectiveness", Journal of Business Ethics, 62, 2005 "Exploring the Openness of Information Sharing in Audits and its Main Impediments", (With Joanna Ho, Chee Chow), Accounting Research Monthly/Accounting Research & Development Foundation, August, 2002 "Opportunism in Capital Budget Recommendations: The Effects of Past Performance and Its Attributions", (With Joanna Ho), Decision Sciences, 32, 2001 "The Effects of Domain Experience and Task Presentation Format on Accountants' Information Relevance Assurance", (With W. Kinney, S. Bonner), The Accounting Review, 76, 2001 "Commentary on The Role of Peer Relationships During CPA Firm Mergers", Behavioral Research in Accounting, 10, 1998 "The Effects of Accounting Knowledge and Context on the Omission of Opportunity Costs in Resource Allocation Decisions", The Accounting Review, 73, 1998 "Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C. Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching", Office of the Provost - University of Notre Dame, 2022 "Mendoza Grow the Good in Business Research Award", Mendoza College of Business - Dean's Office, 2022 "2021 All-Faculty Team Inductee", Office of the Provost - University of Notre Dame, 2021 "Faculty Fellow ND Deloitte Center for Ethical Leadership", Notre Dame Deloitte Center for Ethical Leadership, 2021 "One of two women faculty nominated for the Mapother Luncheon Series with Provost Tom Burish, Spring 2018", University of Notre Dame's Committee for Women and Students and Mapother Lunch Series, 2018 "Invited academician, "Dialogue Dinner"", Ernst & Young Foundation, 2012 "Honorary Inductee", Beta Alpha Psi, Department of Accountancy, Mendoza College of Business, University of Notre Dame, 2012 "Honored by Notre Dame Provost Dr. Tom Burish at Notre Dame vs. Navy Football Game", Notre Dame Provost, Dr. Tom Burish, 2011 "Invited academician, Experiential Learning Development Workshop", Ernst & Young, LLP, 2007 "Featured in article published by Accounting Today", Accounting Today journal, 2006 "Invited scholar, 1st Annual Field Research in Accounting & Auditing: A North-American Focused Workshop", Queen's School of Business, Kingston, Ontario, Canada, 2005 Deconstructing users' confidence: Full audits, analytical procedures and inquiries, and selected substantive tests, AICPA's Assurance Research Advisory Group (ARAG), $2,950 The Adoption of Western Management Control Systems by Chinese State-Owned Enterprises: Investigating the Determinants of 'Fit', China's Research Grant Council, $331,000 UBS Financial Services Inc. , Cites Matsumura, Prakash, and Vera-Munoz (2014), Firm-value effects of carbon emissions and carbon disclosures. The Accounting Review (Vol. 89/2), December, 2012 American Accounting Association's Newsroom, Features Matsumura, Prakash, and Vera-Munoz (2014), Firm-value effects of carbon emissions and carbon disclosures. The Accounting Review (Vol. 89/2), in "Wall St. exacts stiff penalties for carbon emissions - and failure to disclose them." , April 13, 2014 Purcell, J. A. , Cites Matsumura, Prakash, and Vera-Munoz (2014), Firm-value effects of carbon emissions and carbon disclosures. The Accounting Review (Vol. 89/2). See: file:///N:/Private/Research/ENV_DISCLOSURES/Business%20press/climate-change-risk-disclosure-transcript_CPA%20Australia-2016.pdf, August 29, 2016 GreenBiz.com, Features Matsumura, Prakash, and Vera-Munoz (2014), Firm-value effects of carbon emissions and carbon disclosures. The Accounting Review (Vol. 89/2). See: Matsumura, Prakash, and Vera-Munoz (2014), Firm-value effects of carbon emissions and carbon disclosures. The Accounting Review (Vol. 89/2), April 26, 2011 Environmental Leader, Features Matsumura, Prakash, and Vera-Munoz (2014), Firm-value effects of carbon emissions and carbon disclosures. The Accounting Review (Vol. 89/2). See: Matsumura, Prakash, and Vera-Munoz (2014), Firm-value effects of carbon emissions and carbon disclosures. The Accounting Review (Vol. 89/2). See: https://www.environmentalleader.com/2011/04/high-carbon-emitters-are-valued-lower/, April 20, 2011 Mendoza School of Business Mendoza School of Business facebook twitter instagram youtube linkedin Contact Us Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty & Staff Openings AACSB Accredited Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame Mendoza College of Business Notre Dame, IN 46556 Accessibility Annual Clery & Fire Safety Reports University of Notre Dame