Skip Navigation Open Menu Close Menu Mendoza School of Business Mendoza School of Business Open Search Close Search Apply Explore all programs Menu Open Search Close Search Menu All Programs Logo Business Close Modal Graduate Programs Undergraduate Program Executive Education Research & Faculty News & Events About Directory Info For Current Students Mendoza Alumni Employers Press Open Submenu Close Submenu MBA One-Year MBA Two-Year MBA Dual Degrees Open Submenu Close Submenu Specialized Masters Accountancy (MSA) Business Analytics (MSBA) Finance (MSF) Nonprofit Administration (MNA) Management (MSM) Open Submenu Close Submenu Executive Education Executive MBA Executive MBA - Chicago Business Analytics – Chicago (MSBA) Executive Master of Nonprofit Administration (EMNA) Open Submenu Close Submenu PhD PhD in Analytics Ph.D. in Management Undergraduate (BBA) Search Search Home/Mendoza Directory/Profile Carl Ackermann Nolan Professorship for Excellence in Undergraduate Instruction, Teaching Professor Finance 574-631-8407 cackerm1@nd.edu 329 Mendoza College of Business Download CV Biography Background Carl Ackermann teaches financial management and personal finance to University of Notre Dame undergraduates. He crusades against excessive fees in the investment industry, redirecting them to fight poverty and despair. Ackermann has received over a dozen major awards for his teaching and service. Nationwide, he is a favorite professor according to Bloomberg Businessweek and Poets & Quants. Despite teaching a sophomore class, he is a multiple-time recipient of the Senior Class Fellow Award, for the member of the Notre Dame community who has made the most positive and lasting impression on the senior class. He has also received the University's Grenville Clark Award, for the faculty member or administrator whose voluntary activities have advanced the causes of peace and human rights. Ackermann is active in several University service projects and mentoring programs, and participates in athletic recruiting. He holds an A.B. from Amherst College, and a Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Education Ph D, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill BA, Amherst College Areas of Expertise Mutual Funds Hedge Funds Personal Finance Mendoza School of Business Mendoza School of Business facebook twitter instagram youtube linkedin Contact Us Faculty & Staff Directory Faculty & Staff Openings AACSB Accredited Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame Mendoza College of Business Notre Dame, IN 46556 Accessibility Annual Clery & Fire Safety Reports University of Notre Dame