Skip to main content Search: Submit Search Search Filters Search This Site Search Cornell Mental Health at Cornell Resources for student & campus well-being Prospective Students Parents & Families Staff & Faculty 24/7 Help Main Menu Toggle Search Form Home Get Support Support for Students Support for Staff & Faculty Help Others Self Care Self-Care Practices Stress Management Strategies Get Involved Ways Students Can Get Involved Ways Staff & Faculty Can Get Involved Mental Health at Cornell This website is intended to support the mental health and well-being of Cornell University students, staff, and faculty with a wide range of resources. Our Mental Health Framework helps guide campus programming, services, systems, and strategies, and invites engagement from all members of the Cornell community. Academic Well-being Engineering undergrads' credit limit was reduced to 20 for fall '22 in response to Mental Health Review recommendations. Read more & get tips for academic success Summer Mental Health Support Cornell Health offers individual and group counseling, consultation, and referals for undergraduate, graduate, and professional students in Ithaca. Learn more on Cornell Health's website For Graduate & Professional Students Boundaries between work and life can be especially blurry for Graduate and Professional students. Learn about care and support resources. Explore these resources Make time for fun Support your well-being with laughter, play, music, and time with friends. Prioritize self-care Connect with nature Spending time with nature can increase your health, happiness, and ability to learn. Explore Cornell's many flower gardens. Take time to enjoy a sunset. Visit Nature Rx Reviewing Mental Health on Campus Students who are working to implement recommendations from Cornell's Mental Health Review talk about their experiences. Learn what these students had to say Campus Mental Health Framework Cornell’s comprehensive Mental Health Framework includes every member of the community. It also served as the foundation for the campus Mental Health Review. Explore the wheel Help Prevent Hazing Joining a group, team, or organization should never compromise someone’s health, safety, or well-being. There are lots of great ways to create healthy team cohesion and bonding without hazing. Consider these ideas Mental Health During COVID-19 Living through a global pandemic is impacting people’s physical and emotional health and well-being. Coping during COVID Need Support? Contact Us Quick Links Related Cornell Sites Cornell Health Employee Wellbeing FSAP (Faculty & Staff Assistance Program) Hazing at Cornell Mental Health Review SHARE (Sexual Harassment and Assault - Response and Education) Reporting Bias Other Trusted Resources American Foundation for Suicide Prevention Jed Foundation Suicide Prevention & Crisis Services The Okanagan Charter The Steve Fund The Trevor Lifeline If you have a disability and are having trouble accessing information on this website or need materials in an alternate format, contact web-accessibility@cornell.edu for assistance.