Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Middle Eastern Studies Program Contact Us Middle.Eastern.Studies@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Major Minor Courses by Term Arabic Club Back to Top Nav Foreign Study American University in Kuwait Hebrew University Exchange LSA+ in Rabat Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGoSearch Andrew G. Simon |Lecturer and Research Associate Academic Appointments Lecturer and Research Associate Andrew Simon is a historian of media, popular culture, and the modern Middle East. He holds a B.A. in Arabic, Middle East, and Islamic Studies from Duke University and was a fellow at the Center for Arabic Study Abroad in Cairo during the 2011 Egyptian Revolution. He received his Ph.D. from Cornell University and is currently serving as a lecturer at Dartmouth. Andrew's interdisciplinary research has received generous support from the Social Science Research Council and the American Research Center in Egypt, and his work has been published in the International Journal of Middle East Studies and cited in the Washington Post. Andrew's first book, Media of the Masses: Cassette Culture in Modern Egypt (2022), is forthcoming with Stanford University Press and shares the extraordinary story of an ordinary object. Media of the Masses investigates the social life of an everyday technology – the cassette tape – to offer a multisensory history of modern Egypt. Over the 1970s and 1980s, cassettes became a ubiquitous presence in Egyptian homes and stores, and gave opening to ordinary individuals to challenge state-controlled Egyptian media. Drawing on a wide array of sources that were part of everyday life but rarely surface in state collections, this book documents these developments and provides a new entry point into understanding the past, daily life, and culture. Cassettes and cassette players, it demonstrates, did not simply join other twentieth century mass media like records and radio; they were the media of the masses. Comprised of little more than magnetic reels in plastic cases, cassettes empowered countless people to create culture and circulate information long before the advent of the internet. Positioned at the productive crossroads of social history, cultural anthropology, and media and sound studies, Media of the Masses ultimately shows how the most ordinary things may yield the most surprising insights. This year (2021-2022), Andrew will be offering a series of courses that rely on a wide array of primary sources to inspire lively discussions, including: "Soundscapes of the Middle East" (Summer 2021), "Violence and Conflict in the Middle East" (Fall 2021), "The Making of the Modern Middle East" (Fall 2021), a First-Year Seminar on "Steamships to Social Media: Technology in Middle East History" (Winter 2022), and "Gender and the Modern Middle East and North Africa" (Winter 2022). To date, Andrew has led multiple independent studies (MES 85), including "China and the Middle East," "Islam, Education, Renaissance," and "Disability in the Middle East," and has advised two award-winning senior honors theses. Going forward, he welcomes the opportunity to work closely with undergraduates on a topic of their choosing. Students interested in pursuing an independent study or senior honors thesis are encouraged to reach out. Andrew is a firm believer in student scholarship reaching a wider audience and has assisted students in publishing their original research on public platforms and in academic forums. Recently, one of his students won the Plotnick Prize for best research paper in Jewish Studies at Dartmouth. To learn more about one of Andrew's courses, "Soundscapes of the Middle East," check out this recent article in Dartmouth News. + View more Personal Website Contact Andrew.G.Simon@Dartmouth.edu 217 Wilson Hall HB 6178 Education B.A. Duke University M.A. Cornell University Ph.D. Cornell University Areas of Expertise Middle East History /Everyday Technology /Popular Culture /Sound and the Senses /Mass Media /Archives /Islam /Middle East Politics /Middle East Cinema /Resistance and Revolution Selected Publications Media of the Masses: Cassette Culture in Modern Egypt (Stanford University Press, 2022) Series: Stanford Studies in Middle Eastern and Islamic Societies and Cultures Simon, Andrew. "Censuring Sounds: Tapes, Taste, and the Creation of Egyptian Culture." International Journal of Middle East Studies 51, no. 2 (2019): 233-256. Simon, Andrew. "An Ordinary Icon: Cassettes, Counternarratives, and Shaykh Imam," in The Power of Song: The Cultural Politics of Singers Around the Globe (University of Illinois Press 2023). Review of Omar D. Foda's Egypt's Beer: Stella, Identity, and the Modern State. International Journal of Middle East Studies 53, no. 3 (2021): 524-26 Review of Nathaniel Greenberg's How Information Warfare Shaped the Arab Spring: The Politics of Narrative in Egypt and Tunisia. International Journal of Middle East Studies 52, no. 4 (2020): 789-791. + View more Speaking Engagements "Media of the Masses: Cassette Culture in Modern Egypt" (invited speaker) Evanston, IL, New Directions in Middle East & North African Studies, Northwestern University. 2022. "Media of the Masses: Cassette Culture in Modern Egypt" (invited speaker) Ithaca, NY, Department of Near Eastern Studies, Cornell University. 2022. "Media of the Masses: Cassette Culture in Modern Egypt" (invited speaker) Afikra, Outline Series: Mapping Projects from Idea to Outcome. 2022. "Mass Media, the Middle East, and the Arab Spring" (invited speaker) Madison, WI, "Who is Afraid of Democracy?," University of Wisconsin-Madison. 2022. "Beyond Blueprints: Technology in Middle East History" + "Rewriting the Arab Left" (invited speaker) Washington, D.C., Annual Meeting for the Middle East Studies Association (MESA). 2020. Media of the Masses (Stanford University Press 2022) PreviousNext PreviousNext Courses The Making of the Modern Middle East Soundscapes of the Middle East History of Technology in the Middle East The Middle East in Film: Picturing the Past and Present Steamships to Social Media: Technology in Middle East History + View more Related Links Media of the Masses: Cassette Culture in Modern Egypt (Stanford U. Press, 2022) Soundscapes of the Middle East Video Main menu Dartmouth College Middle Eastern Studies Undergraduate About the Program Major Minor Courses by Term Arabic Club Foreign Study American University in Kuwait Hebrew University Exchange LSA+ in Rabat News & Events News & Events People Ribbon Footer People Program Administrator Thomas Pike Thomas.Pike@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646 - 3472 Chair Christopher H. MacEvitt Christopher.H.MacEvitt@Dartmouth.edu Administrative Assistant Carol A. Bean-Carmody Carol.A.Bean-Carmody@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646 - 1498 Find Us Address Middle Eastern Studies Program Dartmouth College Reed Hall 15 College Street Hinman Box 6178 Hanover, NH 03755 (603) 646 - 2861http://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 646-2861 HB: 6178 Email: Middle.Eastern.Studies@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback