Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Middle Eastern Studies Program Contact Us Middle.Eastern.Studies@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Major Minor Courses by Term Arabic Club Back to Top Nav Foreign Study American University in Kuwait Hebrew University Exchange LSA+ in Rabat Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGoSearch Christopher MacEvitt Academic Appointments Chair, Middle Eastern Studies Program Professor of Religion Christopher MacEvitt specializes in the history of medieval Christian communities, particularly around the Mediterranean. After studying Classics and Medieval Studies at Trinity College in Hartford, Connecticut (B.A. 1995), he did his graduate work at Princeton University in the department of History (Ph.D. 2002). His courses explore both the ancient and medieval history of Christian communities, with particular interests in religious identity and gender. His first book examines the idea and practice of tolerance in the twelfth-century crusader principalities in Syria and Palestine, and he has recently completed a book on Franciscans who died as martyrs in Islamic lands. His currently working on a project about competing images of Jerusalem in the fourteenth-century Mediterranean. Contact Christopher.H.MacEvitt@Dartmouth.edu 6-2012 304 Thornton Hall HB 6036 Education B.A. Trinity College M.A. Princeton University Ph.D. Princeton University Areas of Expertise Medieval Mediterranean /Crusades /monasticism /medieval religious history /inter-religious interaction Selected Publications The Crusades and the Christian World of the East: Rough Tolerance, (2008). The Martyrdom of the Franciscans: Islam, the Papacy, and an Order in Conflict (2020). "What was Crusader about the Crusader States?" Al-Masāq 30 (2018): 317-330. “True Romans: Remembering the Crusades among Eastern Christians.” Journal of Medieval History 40 (2014): 260-75. “Martyrdom and the Muslim World through Franciscan Eyes.” The Catholic History Review 97 (2011): 1-23. “The Chronicle of Matthew of Edessa: Apocalypse, the First Crusade and the Armenian Diaspora,” Dumbarton Oaks Papers , 61 (2007) 157-81. “Christian Authority in the Latin East: Edessa in Crusader History,” in The Medieval Crusade , S Ridyard (ed.), (2004) 71-84. + View more Works In Progress Jerusalem Lost: the Holy Land and Islam in Christian Memory. Courses REL-33 Christians, jews, and Muslims in the Age of the Crusades (Identical to JWST 36 and HIST 4.2) REL-5 Early Christianity: The New Testament REL 15.1 Other Christs: an Introduction to Early Christianity Main menu Dartmouth College Middle Eastern Studies Undergraduate About the Program Major Minor Courses by Term Arabic Club Foreign Study American University in Kuwait Hebrew University Exchange LSA+ in Rabat News & Events News & Events People Ribbon Footer People Program Administrator Thomas Pike Thomas.Pike@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646 - 3472 Chair Christopher H. MacEvitt Christopher.H.MacEvitt@Dartmouth.edu Administrative Assistant Carol A. Bean-Carmody Carol.A.Bean-Carmody@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646 - 1498 Find Us Address Middle Eastern Studies Program Dartmouth College Reed Hall 15 College Street Hinman Box 6178 Hanover, NH 03755 (603) 646 - 2861http://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 646-2861 HB: 6178 Email: Middle.Eastern.Studies@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback