Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Middle Eastern Studies Program Contact Us Middle.Eastern.Studies@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Major Minor Courses by Term Arabic Club Back to Top Nav Foreign Study American University in Kuwait Hebrew University Exchange LSA+ in Rabat Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGoSearch Share Senior Honors Theses Presentations Spring 2022 May 27, 2022 Haldeman 41 4:30 pm In person and virtual Zoom Join Zoom Meeting https://dartmouth.zoom.us/j/91415747698?pwd=YUlHcGZWRXVTeGJVdkw5SkthV2JYZz09 Meeting ID: 914 1574 7698 Passcode: 993929 PreviousNext May 27, 2022 Clay Foye Advisor: Yasser Elhariry Hacking Orientalism: Theorizing Arabic Digital Writing "When two Arabic letters are unable to meet, the impossible happens. Join them on a journey to find themselves and love in the digital age. Watch as they encounter poorly-written English code that pretends to know everything about them without being able to differentiate between them! Look on in horror as every major design suite and word processor has an irredeemable flaw in its rendering of Arabic Text! Enjoy a thrilling techno-ride as the writer parallelizes the Missionary printing presses of the Nahda with modern word processors through a comparative reading of Ahmad Faris al-Shidyaq's saucy postmodern text Leg over Leg! Stay until the satisfying conclusion which dissects bug reports of Arabic script! Coming to a lecture hall near you." Kately Zeser Advisor: Andrew Simon Rap Beyond 2011: Politics, Society, and Moroccan Hip-Hop When the Arab Spring erupted in Morocco in 2011, journalists and scholars alike worked to identify the impetus of the movement. One figure in particular captured the mainstream media's hearts and minds: the Moroccan rapper. The rapper, situated as a symbol of resistance and revolution, was both reflective of and conducive to the protests— even though Moroccan hip-hop thrived well before and after the year 2011. "Rap Beyond 2011: Politics, Society, and Moroccan Hip-Hop" explores the long-term development of the genre without focusing solely on subversion against the state. Instead, alternative themes like gender, religion, globalization, and music production contribute to a multidimensional understanding of hip-hop in Morocco. This project decenters political dissidence and reimagines the role of popular culture in politics and society, prompting us to ask the question: "what does hip-hop actually do in the Middle East and North Africa?" Main menu Dartmouth College Middle Eastern Studies Undergraduate About the Program Major Minor Courses by Term Arabic Club Foreign Study American University in Kuwait Hebrew University Exchange LSA+ in Rabat News & Events News & Events People Ribbon Footer People Program Administrator Thomas Pike Thomas.Pike@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646 - 3472 Chair Christopher H. MacEvitt Christopher.H.MacEvitt@Dartmouth.edu Administrative Assistant Carol A. Bean-Carmody Carol.A.Bean-Carmody@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646 - 1498 Find Us Address Middle Eastern Studies Program Dartmouth College Reed Hall 15 College Street Hinman Box 6178 Hanover, NH 03755 (603) 646 - 2861http://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 646-2861 HB: 6178 Email: Middle.Eastern.Studies@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback