Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Middle Eastern Studies Program Contact Us Middle.Eastern.Studies@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Major Minor Courses by Term Arabic Club Back to Top Nav Foreign Study American University in Kuwait Hebrew University Exchange LSA+ in Rabat Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGoSearch American University in Kuwait Hebrew University Exchange LSA+ in Rabat Share LSA+ in Rabat Morocco's beautiful scenery is the home to the MES Program's foreign study opportunities. Students live in the old city with local homestay families and take three courses at the local MES center. PreviousNext Program Overview The Arabic LSA+ is held in Rabat, Morocco. Students live in the old city with local homestay families and take three courses at our local center: two courses in Arabic language (intermediate or advanced) and the director’s seminar, “Modern Morocco: Literature, Culture, and Society.” Students participate in a wide arrange of extra-curricular activities such as cooking lessons, calligraphy workshops, NGO visits, and meetings with Moroccan novelists and filmmakers. In addition, students will visit a variety of cities and regions, such as Fez, Tangier, Marrakech, and the Atlas Mountains. Students will spend their first two nights in a hotel and then spend the rest of the program with local homestay families. Learn more about this program from the Guarini Institute. Financial Information Tuition and Fees The fees charged by the College for a Dartmouth-sponsored off-campus term of study include regular tuition charges for a term at Dartmouth, service fees, as well as the specific costs established for each off-campus study locale. In many programs, the room and board costs tend to be higher than for a term in Hanover. You can view a budget sheet for this program by clicking here. The cost of transportation to and from the site is the responsibility of the student. Financial Aid In order that all qualified Dartmouth undergraduate students may have the opportunity to take part in off-campus programs, the College endeavors to adjust its normal financial aid awards for students already receiving aid. Tuition and expected family contribution for Dartmouth's off-campus programs are the same as for an on-campus term. Assistance is available to meet extra costs associated with off-campus programs, including airfare. Half of any extra cost is met with additional Dartmouth scholarship; loan assistance is offered for the other half. Loan assistance is also offered to replace the employment that would normally be included in an on-campus term. Although financial aid recipients are given aid to cover all of the required costs of the program, students are responsible for purchasing their own plane ticket and, on some programs, meals. Often this means that part of the expected family contribution is used towards these costs rather than for tuition. Off-Campus Programs Fair Come explore your off-campus study options for academic credit. Date and time: TBD Main menu Dartmouth College Middle Eastern Studies Undergraduate About the Program Major Minor Courses by Term Arabic Club Foreign Study American University in Kuwait Hebrew University Exchange LSA+ in Rabat News & Events News & Events People Ribbon Footer People Program Administrator Thomas Pike Thomas.Pike@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646 - 3472 Chair Christopher H. MacEvitt Christopher.H.MacEvitt@Dartmouth.edu Administrative Assistant Carol A. Bean-Carmody Carol.A.Bean-Carmody@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646 - 1498 Find Us Address Middle Eastern Studies Program Dartmouth College Reed Hall 15 College Street Hinman Box 6178 Hanover, NH 03755 (603) 646 - 2861http://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 646-2861 HB: 6178 Email: Middle.Eastern.Studies@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback