Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Middle Eastern Studies Program Contact Us Middle.Eastern.Studies@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Major Minor Courses by Term Arabic Club Back to Top Nav Foreign Study American University in Kuwait Hebrew University Exchange LSA+ in Rabat Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGoSearch American University in Kuwait Hebrew University Exchange LSA+ in Rabat Share Jerusalem Hebrew University Exchange Program Details This is a Fall Semester exchange program in Hebrew, Israeli and Middle Eastern Studies with the Hebrew University of Jerusalem (Rothberg School of International Studies). Dartmouth students will study and reside at the University's stunning Mt. Scopus campus, overlooking the Old City of Jerusalem and the Judean Desert. For more information, please visit the following page at the Guarini Institute at Dartmouth College: http://dartmouth.terradotta.com/index.cfm?FuseAction=Programs.ViewProgram&Program_ID=9198 FAQ What courses can I take and what credits will I get? The exchange offers two tracks, both requiring five courses to fulfil Hebrew University full-time student status. Four courses count for Dartmouth credit; the fifth just requires a passing grade. (1) Middle Eastern Studies: five elective courses (taught in English) from the rich list of offerings at the Hebrew University's Rothberg International School, or from the University's general list of relevant undergraduate courses. This can include Middle Eastern political science, economics, social sciences, history, Arabic and Hebrew language and culture. Some of the courses are listed at https://overseas.huji.ac.il/areas-study/israel-middle-east-studies/ (2) Hebrew and Israeli Studies track: two courses of Hebrew language study, amounting to 4 mornings of instruction per week -- plus three electives, each of them 4 hours per week. The electives are taught in English. Two of the electives must pertain to Israeli cultural and social studies and Hebrew cultural history. The third elective can be in another subject of your choice and taken from the general list of undergraduate courses, not only from the Rothberg list - see http://shnaton.huji.ac.il/yearbook.php For details of courses, see https://overseas.huji.ac.il/ > ACADEMICS > Hebrew Language Instruction and https://overseas.huji.ac.il/areas-study/israel-middle-east-studies/ You have the additional (non-credit) option of taking the Rothberg School's four or eight week intensive Hebrew course in the August-September leading up to the fall semester. Dartmouth College Transfer Of Credits Policy states (see https://www.dartmouth.edu/~reg/enrollment/studyaway/exchange_prog_transf_cred.html How does the Hebrew placement test work? For Hebrew language placement for the Hebrew and Israeli Studies track, Dartmouth students should take a self-administered placement test provided at the Hebrew University website. Most Dartmouth students are likely to be placed in Level Bet, or occasionally in Level Gimel. See at https://overseas.huji.ac.il/academics/hebrew-and-other-languages/ What are the dates of the Jerusalem fall semester? The 2020 Fall exchange semester is expected to run from October 12, 2020 - December 22, 2020, with exams scheduled to enable students to be back in Dartmouth for Winter Quarter. Please contact the Hebrew University adviser's office to confirm these dates and their dates for orientation. How do I apply and when? Applications should be submitted to Dartmouth's Guarini Institute by February 1 for Round One or May 1 for Round Two. Two recommendations are required, one or both from a faculty member who has taught you; the other can also be from an undergraduate dean. Guarini will then send a letter of confirmation to the Hebrew University's Office of the Academic Secretary. Once they have authorized the application, the applicant should complete the application through the Hebrew University's web site at https://overseas.huji.ac.il/ > Admissions. All documents requested by the Hebrew University must be submitted to them by the date specified on their website. And if I have further questions? Further questions about the application can be addressed to Guarini, to the Dartmouth Exchange coordinator, Professor Lewis Glinert, or e-mailed to risundergrad@savion.huji.ac.il You can also try phoning the Hebrew University New York Office of Academic Affairs at 212-607-8520 The entire Exchange Program is described on the Hebrew University's English-language website at http://international.huji.ac.il/book/exchange-programs You may also visit the Hebrew University Rothberg School website: http://overseas.huji.ac.il/ What if I need to take more Hebrew in the summer before I go? There is the additional (non-credit) opportunity, strictly optional, of taking the Rothberg School's four or eight week intensive Hebrew course (Ulpan) in the August-September leading up to the fall semester. This requires separate tuition payment. What will it cost for tuition, dorms and meals? Tuition and Fees: Students pay regular Dartmouth tuition and service fees to Dartmouth for the exchange term and pay room, board and related fees to Hebrew University. Dorm charges ($ 1,800 for the fall semester 2019) are paid directly to the Hebrew University; so too tuition for optional summer Hebrew (Ulpan) studies. There is no meal plan requirement. The cost of transportation to and from the site is the responsibility of the student. Because the exchange is an official program sponsored by the College, the Dartmouth student does not need to pay the transfer term fee that the College charges to students who study on outside programs during leave terms. Further details at https://overseas.huji.ac.il/?CategoryID=924&ArticleID=1105 Financial Aid: Financial aid is available for official exchange programs arranged through the College. Financial aid awards are adjusted to reflect the actual cost of the exchange term. However, students will receive no more scholarship assistance than they would have received for a term at Dartmouth. Any extra costs associated with the program will be covered by additional loan assistance. How will I get my transcript? Upon completion of the exchange, the exchange coordinator at the host institution will forward the transcript to the Office of the Registrar, Dartmouth College. Future transcripts of exchange program grades may be obtained from the Hebrew University. What about a visa and passport? Participants are strongly advised to acquire a multiple-entry A/2 student visa from an Israeli Consulate in the US before travelling. (If they enter Israel on a tourist visa, they must acquire such an A/2 student visa at the Ministry of the Interior in Jerusalem, which can be time-consuming.) The student's passport must also be valid for the full period of the visa. IMPORTANT: When traveling to Israel, you must have at least six months of validity left on your passport beyond your return date. Campus Life See full details at http://overseas.huji.ac.il Main menu Dartmouth College Middle Eastern Studies Undergraduate About the Program Major Minor Courses by Term Arabic Club Foreign Study American University in Kuwait Hebrew University Exchange LSA+ in Rabat News & Events News & Events People Ribbon Footer People Program Administrator Thomas Pike Thomas.Pike@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646 - 3472 Chair Christopher H. MacEvitt Christopher.H.MacEvitt@Dartmouth.edu Administrative Assistant Carol A. Bean-Carmody Carol.A.Bean-Carmody@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646 - 1498 Find Us Address Middle Eastern Studies Program Dartmouth College Reed Hall 15 College Street Hinman Box 6178 Hanover, NH 03755 (603) 646 - 2861http://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 646-2861 HB: 6178 Email: Middle.Eastern.Studies@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback