Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Middle Eastern Studies Program Contact Us Middle.Eastern.Studies@Dartmouth.eduContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate About the Program Major Minor Courses by Term Arabic Club Back to Top Nav Foreign Study American University in Kuwait Hebrew University Exchange LSA+ in Rabat Back to Top Nav News & Events News & Events Back to Top Nav People Search form Search this site CloseGoSearch Top Stories Previous Next Iraqi Women: Beyond Dictatorship, War, Sanctions and Occupation Virtual Zoom Lecture, No preregistration required, Friday, May 27, 2:15 PM, Nadje Al-Ali, Brown University. Senior Honors Theses Presentations Spring 2022 Clay Foye and Katelyn Zeser successfully defended their thesis on May 27, 2022. Media of the Masses Cassette Culture in Modern Egypt Congratulations Andrew Simon on the publication of your new book. Media of the Masses investigates the social life of an everyday technology—the cassette tape—to offer a multi-sensory history of modern Egypt. The Unfinished Business of Lebanon's October Uprising The answer to Lebanon's problems lies not in foreign intervention, but rather a rejection of the status quo and identity politics in favor of community building by Tala Majzoub, The Dartmouth, 10-19-21. Adjusting the Database: An Appreciation of Arabic at the Hood Museum of Art Katelyn Zeser '22, a scholar of Arabic, was in a unique position to fix the digital presence of Arabic works at the Hood Museum. I made our digital footprint more accommodating and inclusive for Arabic speakers in our community. Virtual Public Lecture: Reparative Translation Emily Apter, New York University spoke Tuesday, May 25, 2021. Beautiful Agitation: Modern Painting and Politics in Syria Wednesday, May 19th, 2021 @ 4 pm, Anneka Lenssen, University of California, Berkeley, Virtual Zoom, Free and open to the public. Anneka Lenssen's new book, Beautiful Agitation: Modern Painting and Politics in Syria, explores how painters in Syria activated the mutability of form to rethink relationships. Spring 2021 Humanities Seminars In Jewish & Middle Eastern Studies The Humanities Seminar in Jewish & Middle Eastern Studies presents a series of virtual lectures this spring. Free and open to the public. Please use the same Zoom link for each lecture. Middle Eastern Studies Lecture Series "The series aims to introduce innovative interdisciplinary research in the area between Arabic literature and poetics, literary theory and comparative literature." Soham Basu '20 and Ameena Razzaque '21 Win Pickering Fellowships The award is designed to prepare college graduates for the U.S. foreign service. Recent Publications view all The Martyrdom of the Franciscans: Islam, the Papacy, and an Order in Conflict (The Middle Age Series) Christopher MacEvitt University of Pennsylvania Press Media of the Masses: Cassette Culture in Modern Egypt Andrew G. Simon Stanford University Press, Apr 19, 2022 The Egyptian Assassin: A Novel Ezzedine C. Fishere, Translator: Jonathan Wright Hoopoe The Story of Hebrew Lewis H. Glinert Princeton University Press Main menu Dartmouth College Middle Eastern Studies Undergraduate About the Program Major Minor Courses by Term Arabic Club Foreign Study American University in Kuwait Hebrew University Exchange LSA+ in Rabat News & Events News & Events People Ribbon Footer People Program Administrator Thomas Pike Thomas.Pike@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646 - 3472 Chair Christopher H. MacEvitt Christopher.H.MacEvitt@Dartmouth.edu Administrative Assistant Carol A. Bean-Carmody Carol.A.Bean-Carmody@Dartmouth.edu (603) 646 - 1498 Find Us Address Middle Eastern Studies Program Dartmouth College Reed Hall 15 College Street Hinman Box 6178 Hanover, NH 03755 (603) 646 - 2861http://m.dartmouth.edu/map/ Phone: 646-2861 HB: 6178 Email: Middle.Eastern.Studies@Dartmouth.edu More Contact Information Close Contact Us My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback