Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Mineralogical & Geological Museum Search Catalogue Collections Specimens Archives Requests Analytical Sampling Image Requests Loan Requests Permanent Exhibits Online Exhibits About History People Internships Careers Give FAQ HOME / ABOUT / People Dr. Charles H. Langmuir Director of the Museum and Higgins Professor of Geochemistry Charles "Charlie" Langmuir has discovered hydrothermal sites in three ocean basins, and recently co-led the first investigation of the Arctic Ocean ridge... Read more about Charles H. Langmuir EPS Website langmuir@eps.harvard.edu p: 617-384-9948 Ph.D. Raquel Alonso-Perez Curatrix Raquel Alonso-Perez, Curator of the Mineralogical and Geological Museum, Harvard University is responsible for access to, teaching,... Read more about Raquel Alonso-Perez EPS Website ralonso@fas.harvard.edu p: 617-496-2401 Kevin Czaja Assistant Curator Kevin has worked with the Earth and Planetary Sciences (EPS) Department and Harvard Mineralogical and Geological Museum for the past 25 years. Kevin has a... Read more about Kevin Czaja EPS Website kczaja@fas.harvard.edu p: 617-495-3719 Caroline Im Collections & Database Manager Caroline is the collections & database manager at the Harvard Mineralogical and Geological Museum. She graduated with a BA in classics,... Read more about Caroline Im im@fas.harvard.edu p: 617-495-4758 Kaitlin Sanders Curatorial Assistant Katie is a curatorial assistant at the Mineralogical and Geological Museum. She started as an intern through Northeastern... Read more about Kaitlin Sanders The museum committee is formed by: Charlie Langmuir, Director of the MGMH and Higgins Professor of Geochemistry (EPS), Miaki Ishii Professor of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Rebecca A. Fischer Clare Boothe Luce Assistant Professor of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Frank Keutsch, Stonington Professor of Engineering and Atmospheric Science, Professor of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, and Affiliated Faculty Member of Earth and Planetary Sciences, Raquel Alonso-Perez, Curatrix Andrea-Marie Moore, EPS executive director. Mailing List Subscribe to our mailing list HOME Privacy Statement Rights and Permissions Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement