Skip to main content Main Menu Utility Menu Search HARVARD.EDU Mineralogical & Geological Museum Search Catalogue Collections Specimens Archives Requests Analytical Sampling Image Requests Loan Requests Permanent Exhibits Online Exhibits About History People Internships Careers Give FAQ HOME / Frequently Asked Questions It’s New Year’s Eve! Can I offer to donate an object today and get a tax deduction for this year? Unfortunately, no. For year-end donations, all information must be submitted no later than December 1. The Museum has an extended winter holiday and will process last-minute donations early in the following year. Can you appraise my donation? Federal law prevents the museum from providing identification services or appraisal values for donated items. Donors are responsible for appraisals of value. Please contact the regional branch of the Appraisers Association of America or the American Society of Appraisers directly. The museum is in no way affiliated with these organizations. I will make a gift only if I can set certain conditions for my object. Are you still interested? Our practice and policy is to not accept gifts that come with strings attached. Donation conditions are often not in line with modern museum practices, may not reflect our constituencies’ expectations and needs, or are at odds with university guidelines. Many museums now find themselves devoting resources trying to adhere to or resolve legacy issues, and we certainly do not wish to create similar problems for our successors. Do you want the intellectual property rights, too? The MGMH asks that all intellectual property rights that exist in the object be donated to the museum along with title to the object. This enables us to sell images, publish images on the web and in hard copy, and license reproduction for commercial purposes. While the MGMH would not automatically decline an object without simultaneous transfer of full intellectual property rights, withholding of intellectual property rights by the potential donor would weigh heavily against our acceptance. How is ownership transferred? The legal mechanism for acquiring an object differs from case to case, depending on how the object is offered. With a gift, as soon as the museum has decided to accept the donor’s offer, the donor will be provided with a Deed of Gift for signature. A signed copy of the deed is to be returned to us. Arrangements will also be made for the object to arrive at the MGMH, if this has not occurred previously. When the MGMH receives the completed Deed of Gift and the object is in our physical custody, the gift is completed. Can I send my object to the museum now? Please do not send unsolicited objects to the museum. We will contact you at an appropriate time to arrange shipping to the museum. How does the museum decide which objects to accept for the collection? The MGMH has a formal decision-making procedure. Briefly, museum specialists will assess the object on the basis of various criteria and discuss their findings. A recommendation is then made to the director who, acting for the university, makes the final decision. How long before I learn whether the museum wants to acquire my object? Generally, the most time-consuming portion of the acquisition process is gathering information from the donor. We may have to contact you several times before we have enough information for your object to be considered by the Collections Review Committee. Sometimes additional research into legal issues or consultation with outside curatorial experts is necessary as well. Once we have all of this information, your offer will be considered at a monthly meeting of our Collections Review Committee. After the committee’s recommendation has been reviewed by the director, we... Read more about How long before I learn whether the museum wants to acquire my object? How do I offer an object to the MGMH? Please send a letter or e-mail telling us about your object and whether you are offering it as a gift or as a bequest. It will help us greatly if you can enclose photographs or digital images. Please provide a description, including materials, date of manufacture and/or collection, and dimensions; verifiable record of authenticity and provenance (history of ownership); and information about any prior treatments with preservative chemicals. This information can be sent to: The Mineralogical & Geological Museum, Harvard University 24 Oxford Street  Cambridge, MA 02138 E... Read more about How do I offer an object to the MGMH? How do I find out more about mineral collecting? Below are several links for local and national mineralogical associations: Professional Societies and Organizations Mineralogical Society of America http://www.minsocam.org/ Mineralogical Association of Canada ...Read more about How do I find out more about mineral collecting? 1 of 2 ›› Mailing List Subscribe to our mailing list HOME Privacy Statement Rights and Permissions Admin Login OpenScholar Copyright © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College | Accessibility | Digital Accessibility | Report Copyright Infringement