Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Exec Ed Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Management Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty Area List Faculty Awards Faculty in the News Faculty List Penn Faculty Handbook Wharton MBA Academic Calendar Research Research Papers | Publications Research Centers Participate in Research Programs Undergraduate Program Entrepreneurship & Innovation Concentration Management Concentration & Specializations Course Descriptions Course Schedule Undergraduate Course Videos MBA Program MBA Entrepreneurship & Innovation MBA Management MBA Multinational Management MBA Organizational Effectiveness MBA Strategic Management Course Descriptions Course Schedule MBA Course Videos PhD Program Course Schedule Current Students Curriculum Evaluation Guidelines Postdoctoral Researchers Q&A For PhD Students Events and Calendars Department Information Administration Site Concur Travel & Expense Management (TEM) Contact Us Department Committees Department Directory Directions / Office Map Postdoctoral Researchers Staff Student Jobs Wharton Complex Classroom Capacity Find an Expert Tyler Wry Associate Professor of Management Contact Information Primary Email: twry@wharton.upenn.edu Office Phone: (215) 573-3399 office Address: 2211 SHDH 3620 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104 Links: CV, Google Scholar Profile Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors In the News Overview Professor Tyler Wry studies hybrid ventures, which are organizations that combine related, but potentially contradictory aims in their core. For example, many nanotechnology startups are organized around the joint pursuit of scientific discovery and technology commercialization, and social enterprises work to generate profits while simultaneously addressing societal issues. These organizations have the potential to generate important commercial and social innovations, but also face a number of unique challenges, particularly in the startup stage of development. Building on this, Tyler’s research focuses on how hybrids emerge, attract resources, and positively affect society. Tyler’s work has appeared in outlets such as the Academy of Management Annals, the Academy of Management Journal, the Academy of Management Review, the Journal of Business Venturing, and Organization Science. He serves on the Editorial Boards of Administrative Science Quarterly, the Academy of Management Journal and the Academy of Management Review. In his spare time, Tyler enjoys running, racquet sports, and fleeting moments of quiet. Continue Reading Research Tyler Wry and Eric Zhao (2018), Taking Tradeoffs Seriously: Examining the Contextually Contingent Relationship between Social Outreach Intensity and Financial Sustainability in Global Microfinance, Organization Science, Forthcoming. Abstract: Studies have argued that hybrid organizations often face tradeoffs between the competing goals that they pursue. Yet we know little about the actual nature of such tradeoffs, nor how they might be shaped by different contextual factors. Focusing on social enterprise, we address these gaps by: (1) developing a framework that can be used to predict the compatibility of social outreach and financial sustainability for different types of social enterprises, and; (2) arguing that this relationship is moderated by the cultural roots of the issue that an enterprise addresses, the market conditions where it operates, and the quality of its management. We test our arguments in a study of 2037 microfinance organizations in 115 nations between 1995 and 2013. Results support our predictions and show that social-financial tradeoffs are accentuated when a social issue is related to deep-seated cultural problems like discrimination, and when an enterprise operates in a weak business environment. Intensive social outreach is sustainable, however, when cultural barriers to outreach are low and an enterprise operates in a supportive market context and is professionally managed. Our study thus suggests that social-financial tradeoffs are contingent, and that the promise of pursuing a social mission through commercial means varies widely across contexts. Luis Ballesteros, Michael Useem, Tyler Wry (2017), Masters of disasters: An empirical analysis of how societies benefit from corporate disaster giving, Academy of Management Journal, Forthcoming. Abstract: Corporations are increasingly influential within societies worldwide, while the relative capacity of national governments to meet large social needs has waned. Consequentially, firms face social pressures to adopt responsibilities that have traditionally fallen to governments, aid agencies, and other types of organizations. There are questions, though, about whether this is beneficial for society. We study this in the context of disaster relief and recovery, in which companies account for a growing share of aid, as compared to traditional providers. Drawing on the dynamic capabilities literature, we argue that firms are more able than other types of organizations to sense areas of need following a disaster, seize response opportunities, and reconfigure resources for fast, effective relief efforts. As such, we predict that, while traditional aid providers remain important for disaster recovery, relief will arrive faster and nations will recover more fully when locally active firms account for a larger share of disaster aid. We test our predictions with a proprietary data set comprising information on every natural disaster and reported aid donation worldwide from 2003 to 2013. Using a novel, quasi-experimental technique known as the “synthetic control method,” our analysis shows that nations benefit greatly from corporate involvement when disaster strikes Tyler Wry and Jeff York (2017), An Identity Based Approach to Social Enterprise, Academy of Management Review, 42, pp. 437-460. Abstract: Social enterprise has gained widespread acclaim as a tool for addressing social and environmental problems. Yet because social enterprises integrate social welfare and commercial logics, they face the challenge of pursuing frequently conflicting goals. Studies have begun to address how established social enterprises can manage these tensions, but we know little about how, why, and with what consequences social entrepreneurs mix competing logics as they create new organizations. To address this gap, we develop a theoretical model based in identity theory that helps to explain (1) how commercial and social welfare logics become relevant to entrepreneurship, (2) how different types of entrepreneurs perceive the tension between these logics, and (3) what implications this has for how entrepreneurs recognize and develop social enterprise opportunities. Our approach responds to calls from organizational and entrepreneurship scholars to extend existing frameworks of opportunity recognition and development to better account for social enterprise creation. Eric Zhao and Tyler Wry (2016), Not all Inequality is Equal: Deconstructing the Societal Logic of Patriarchy to Understand Microfinance Lending to Women, Academy of Management Journal, 59, pp. 1994-2020. Abstract: Many social problems reflect sets of beliefs and practices—or “institutional logics”—that operate at the societal level and rationalize the marginalization of certain categories of people. Studies have examined the consequences this has for individuals, but have largely overlooked how organizations that address such issues are affected. To understand this, we apply and extend the institutional logics perspective. Our approach recognizes that practices within different sectors of a society may be shaped by different organizing principles. However, we suggest practices are also likely to reflect—to varying degrees—broader societal logics. Based on this, we argue that societal logics may work through multiple influence channels and affect organizations in non-obvious ways, depending on how, where, and with what intensity they manifest in society. We test our theory by analyzing how patriarchy, as a societal-level logic, affects outreach to women by microfinance organizations in 115 nations. We find that patriarchy supports practices in the family, religion, professions, and state that suppress this outreach. Yet, in some nations, patriarchy is differently evident across sectors. The resulting contrasts draw attention to women’s issues, motivate redress efforts, and catalyze resource flows to microfinance organizations. The greatest outreach to women is in these nations. Adam Cobb, Tyler Wry, Eric Zhao (2016), Funding Financial Inclusion: Institutional Logics and the Contextual Contingency of Funding for Microfinance Organizations, Academy of Management Journal, 59 (6), pp. 2103-2131. Tyler Wry, Michael Lounsbury, P.D. Jennings (2014), Hybrid vigor: Securing venture capital by spanning categories in nanotechnology, Academy of Management Journal. Tyler Wry and J.P. Vergne (2014), Categorizing categorization research: Review, integration, and future directions, Journal of Management Studies, 50th Anniversary Issue. Tyler Wry and Lounsbury, M. (2013), Contextualizing the categorical imperative: Category linkages, technology focus, and resource acquisition in nanotechnology entrepreneurship, Journal of Business Venturing. Tyler Wry, Adam Cobb, Howard E. Aldrich (2013), More than a Metaphor: Assessing the Historical Legacy of Resource Dependence and its Contemporary Promise as a Theory of Environmental Complexity, Academy of Management Annals, 7 (1), pp. 439-486. Tyler Wry, M. Lounsbury, M. A. Glynn (2011), Legitimating new categories of organizations: Stories as distributed cultural entrepreneurship, Organization Science, 22: 339-463. Teaching Past Courses MGMT230 - ENTREPRENEURSHIP How do you take a good idea and turn it into a successful venture? Whether you plan to become a founder, investor, mentor, partner, or early employee of a startup company, this course will take you through the entire journey of new venture creation and development. MGMT 230 is a project-based survey course designed to provide an overview of the entrepreneurial process and give you practical hands-on experience with new venture development. You and a team will have the chance to ideate, test, and develop a pitch for an early-stage startup by incorporating material from class lectures, simulations, labs, and class discussions. By the end of the course, you will have a better understanding of what it takes to create a successful startup, as well as proven techniques for identifying and testing new market opportunities, acquiring resources, bringing new products and services to market, scaling, and exiting new ventures. MGMT231 - VENTURE IMPLEMENTATION This advanced course on entrepreneurship focuses on developing a validated opportunity or concept into a venture that is ready for seed financing and/or launching the product or service. Participants in this course must previously have developed a validated opportunity, either in a previous course or through independent efforts. Students may participate as a team of up to three people. Ideally, participants are commited to pursuing their opportunity commercially, or at least to seriously explore that possibility. The course provides a practical guidance for developing the product or service, forming the entity, raising capital building the team, establishing partnerships, and sourcing professional services. After completing the course, you will be "pitch ready" - whether submitting to campus venture competitions or to outside investors. Most coursework is focused on applying concepts and frameworks to project tasks in developing the venture. Students must have successfully completed MGMT 801 before enrolling in this course. Students must have successfully completed MGMT801 before enrolling in this course. MGMT401 - GROWING SOCIAL IMPACT This course seeks to address a gap at the core of contemporary entrepreneurship: despite a growing desire to pursue prosocial goals and affect positive change in the world, most founders have little understanding of how to measure, manage, and scale their impact. This creates the risk that financial goals will play an outsized role in decision-making, particularly as the venture scales, leading founders to drift away from social impact aims - or to pursue goals that fail to deliver on their intended impacts. MGMT 401 fulfils the Wharton capstone requirement with a hands-on approach to addressing these issues. Students will work hand-in-hand with the founding teams of pre-selected startups from the Wharton venture community to develop a strategy for measuring social impact, and ensuring fidelity to social goals as the venture goes to market and begins to scale. Projects will be group-based, and will ask students to integrate learnings on social enterprise, impact measurement, and impact investing, with prior coursework on entrepreneurship, social impact, business ethics, leadership, team dynamics, and venture finance. Students will leave the class with a deeper appreciation of the potential for business to be a force for good in the world, and the difficulties that this can pose during the founding and growth stages of MGMT4010 - Growing Social Impact This course seeks to address a gap at the core of contemporary entrepreneurship: despite a growing desire to pursue prosocial goals and affect positive change in the world, most founders have little understanding of how to measure, manage, and scale their impact. This creates the risk that financial goals will play an outsized role in decision-making, particularly as the venture scales, leading founders to drift away from social impact aims - or to pursue goals that fail to deliver on their intended impacts. MGMT 401 fulfils the Wharton capstone requirement with a hands-on approach to addressing these issues. Students will work hand-in-hand with the founding teams of pre-selected startups from the Wharton venture community to develop a strategy for measuring social impact, and ensuring fidelity to social goals as the venture goes to market and begins to scale. Projects will be group-based, and will ask students to integrate learnings on social enterprise, impact measurement, and impact investing, with prior coursework on entrepreneurship, social impact, business ethics, leadership, team dynamics, and venture finance. Students will leave the class with a deeper appreciation of the potential for business to be a force for good in the world, and the difficulties that this can pose during the founding and growth stages of a new business. The class will be of value to students who are interested in creating socially impactful businesses, as well as to those who want to work in the ecosystem that supports such ventures (e.g., consulting, or impact investing). MGMT801 - ENTREPRENEURSHIP MGMT 801 is the foundation coures in the Entrepeurial Management program. The purpose of this course is to explore the many dimensions of new venture creation and growth. While most of the examples in class will be drawn from new venture formation, the principles also apply to entrepreneurship in corporate settings and to non-profit entrepreneurship. We will be concerned with content and process questions as well as with formulation and implementation issues that relate to conceptualizing, developing, and managing successful new ventures. The emphasis in this course is on applying and synthesizing concepts and techniques from functional areas of strategic management, finance, accounting, managerial economics, marketing, operations management, and organizational behavior in the context of new venture development. The class serves as both a stand alone class and as a preparatory course to those interested in writing and venture implementation (the subject of the semester-long course, MGMT 806). MGMT8010 - Entrepreneurship MGMT 801 is the foundation coures in the Entrepeurial Management program. The purpose of this course is to explore the many dimensions of new venture creation and growth. While most of the examples in class will be drawn from new venture formation, the principles also apply to entrepreneurship in corporate settings and to non-profit entrepreneurship. We will be concerned with content and process questions as well as with formulation and implementation issues that relate to conceptualizing, developing, and managing successful new ventures. The emphasis in this course is on applying and synthesizing concepts and techniques from functional areas of strategic management, finance, accounting, managerial economics, marketing, operations management, and organizational behavior in the context of new venture development. The class serves as both a stand alone class and as a preparatory course to those interested in writing and venture implementation (the subject of the semester-long course, MGMT 806). Format: Lectures and case discussions MGMT806 - VENTURE IMPLEMENTATION This advanced course on entrepreneurship focuses on developing a validated opportunity or concept into a venture that is ready for seed financing and/or launching the product or service. Participants in this course must previously have developed a validated opportunity, either in a previous course or through independent efforts. Students may participate as a team of up to three people. Ideally, participants are committed to pursuing their opportunity commercially, or at least to seriously explore that possibility. The course provides a practical guidance for developing the product or service, forming the entity, raising capital building the team, establishing partnerships, and sourcing professional services. After completing the course, you will be "pitch ready" - whether submitting to campus venture competitions or to outside investors. Most coursework is focused on applying concepts and frameworks to project tasks in developing the venture. Students must have successfully completed MGMT 801 before enrolling in this course (or obtain the permission of the instructor). MGMT8060 - Venture Implementation This advanced course on entrepreneurship focuses on developing a validated opportunity or concept into a venture that is ready for seed financing and/or launching the product or service. Participants in this course must previously have developed a validated opportunity, either in a previous course or through independent efforts. Students may participate as a team of up to three people. Ideally, participants are committed to pursuing their opportunity commercially, or at least to seriously explore that possibility. The course provides a practical guidance for developing the product or service, forming the entity, raising capital building the team, establishing partnerships, and sourcing professional services. After completing the course, you will be "pitch ready" - whether submitting to campus venture competitions or to outside investors. Most coursework is focused on applying concepts and frameworks to project tasks in developing the venture. Students must have successfully completed MGMT 801 before enrolling in this course (or obtain the permission of the instructor). Format: Highly interactive Requirements: Class participation, interim assignments. MGMT893 - ADVANCED STUDY-EMGT MGMT897 - GLOBAL MODULAR COURSE A MGMT8970 - Global Modular Course A MGMT938 - SEMINAR IN SOCIAL ENTREP This half-semester course examines how social enterprise organizations emerge, attract resources, and affect society. The course will bridge micro and macro theoretical perspectives to provide insight into the unique challenges faced by social enterprises, while also showing how the study of such organizations can help to advance mainstream entrepreneurship research. Individual sessions will focus on defining social entrepreneurship, the tensions and tradeoffs that emerge in organizations that pursue social and financial goals, impact investing and other sources of finance, and the role of incubators/accelerators in supporting the development of these organizations. This is a seminar-based course with active discussion and analysis. MGMT970 - RESEARCH METHODS IN MGMT Students taking the course will be introduced to the seminal readings on a given method, have a hands-on discussion regarding their application often using a paper and dataset of the faculty member leading the discussion. The goal of the course is to make participants more informed users and reviewers of a wide variety of methodological approaches to Management research including Ordinary Least Squares, Discrete Choice, Count Models, Panel Data, Dealing with Endogeneity, Survival/failure/event history and event studies, experiments, factor analysis and structural equation modeling, hierarchical linear modeling, networks, comparative qualitative methods, coding of non-quantitative data, unstructured text and big data simulations. MGMT9700 - Research Methods in Mgmt Students taking the course will be introduced to the seminal readings on a given method, have a hands-on discussion regarding their application often using a paper and dataset of the faculty member leading the discussion. The goal of the course is to make participants more informed users and reviewers of a wide variety of methodological approaches to Management research including Ordinary Least Squares, Discrete Choice, Count Models, Panel Data, Dealing with Endogeneity, Survival/failure/event history and event studies, experiments, factor analysis and structural equation modeling, hierarchical linear modeling, networks, comparative qualitative methods, coding of non-quantitative data, unstructured text and big data simulations. Awards and Honors Responsible Research in Management: 2017 Inaugural IACMR Presidential Award, 2018 ONE / NBS research paper with implications for practice award, 2017 Description The Research Impact on Practice award recognizes a piece of contemporary, peer-reviewed research that has important implications for practice. The research may focus on any dimension of social or environmental sustainability. The Network for Business Sustainability (NBS) co-sponsors this award with the Organizations and the Natural Environment (ONE) Division of the Academy of Management Best Paper Award, 13th Annual Social Entrepreneurship Conference, 2016 Academy of Management Journal, Best Reviewer Award, 2016 Best published paper, Academy of Management Journal (finalist), 2015 Grigor McClelland Doctoral Dissertation Award Winner (for innovative scholarship in management and organization theory), 2012 Pondy Best Dissertation Paper Award, finalist, 2012 Academy of Management Best Paper Proceedings (2 papers), 2012 Academy of Management Best Paper Proceedings (2 papers), 2011 Carolyn Dexter Award (best international paper), Academy of Management, 2011 Best International Paper Award, Academy of Management, OMT Division, 2011 Emerald IJGE & WAIB Emerging Scholar Award, finalist, 2011 WAIB Award for increased gender awareness in international business research, finalist, 2011 Academy of Management Best Paper Proceedings (1 paper), 2010 Andrew Stuart Memorial Graduate Prize for Doctoral Research, 2008 Graduate Student Teaching Award, University of Alberta, 2008 Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada Doctoral Fellowship, 2006 Queen Elizabeth II Doctoral Scholarship, 2006 Walter H. Johns Graduate Fellowship, 2006 Arbutus Award – Volunteer of the year, Big Brothers Big Sisters, 2003 In the News Knowledge @ Wharton Coronavirus Disaster: Why Firms Should Lead the Recovery, Knowledge @ Wharton - 3/3/2020 Can Tesla Avoid a Breakdown?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 5/21/2018 Why Corporate Participation Is Critical for Disaster Relief, Knowledge @ Wharton - 12/5/2017 Mastering Disaster: How Companies Can Help in Rescue and Recovery, Knowledge @ Wharton - 11/3/2017 Growth vs. Profits: Uber’s Cash Burn Dilemma, Knowledge @ Wharton - 1/24/2017 How Uncertainty Impacts Funding for Microfinance Organizations, Knowledge @ Wharton - 9/21/2016 Location, Location, Location: Why It Adds to a Patent’s Valuation, Knowledge @ Wharton - 4/7/2016 All Inequality Is Not Created Equal: Microfinance and Gender, Knowledge @ Wharton - 11/30/2015 Simplifying Small Businesses and Midsize Companies to Unlock Growth, Knowledge @ Wharton - 11/8/2015 Social Impact 101: Building Companies That Make a Difference, Knowledge @ Wharton - 5/20/2015 Wharton Stories Prof. Tyler Wry on Teaching Innovation to High School Students, Wharton Stories - 03/24/2022 Three Wharton Seniors Win the 2018 President’s Engagement Prize for Their Furniture Nonprofit, Wharton Stories - 04/20/2018 MBA Student on Personalizing Business Classes for Entrepreneurship, Wharton Stories - 01/07/2016 Activity Latest Research Tyler Wry and Eric Zhao (2018), Taking Tradeoffs Seriously: Examining the Contextually Contingent Relationship between Social Outreach Intensity and Financial Sustainability in Global Microfinance, Organization Science, Forthcoming.All Research In the NewsCoronavirus Disaster: Why Firms Should Lead the Recovery Firms can play a critical role in the recovery from natural disasters by leveraging their core competencies, say Wharton’s Michael Useem and Tyler Wry and Luis Ballesteros of George Washington University.…Read More Knowledge at Wharton - 3/3/2020All News Wharton MagazineGrowth vs. Profits: Uber’s Cash Burn Dilemma On the eve of a possible IPO, and with a troubling bottom line, will the disruptive ride-hailing service become the next Amazon—or the next Groupon? Wharton Magazine - 04/25/2017 Wharton StoriesProf. Tyler Wry on Teaching Innovation to High School Students The Wharton Global Youth Program is preparing to launch its first Essentials of Innovation program for high school students. This introduction to the world of new-venture creation will be held on Wharton’s San Francisco campus, July 10 to July 22, 2022. Wharton Management Prof. Tyler Wry, who is teaching… Wharton Stories - 03/24/2022All Stories Additional Links Management Department Home Faculty Research Programs Events and Calendars Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff Twitter Facebook LinkedIn YouTube InstagramSupport Wharton©2022 The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Management Department | Privacy Policy | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help