Skip to content Skip to main menu Faculty Youth Program Undergrad MBA EMBA PhD Exec Ed Wharton Online Alumni Search Wharton Mobile menu toggle Management Department Menu Home Faculty Faculty Area List Faculty Awards Faculty in the News Faculty List Penn Faculty Handbook Wharton MBA Academic Calendar Research Research Papers | Publications Research Centers Participate in Research Programs Undergraduate Program Entrepreneurship & Innovation Concentration Management Concentration & Specializations Course Descriptions Course Schedule Undergraduate Course Videos MBA Program MBA Entrepreneurship & Innovation MBA Management MBA Multinational Management MBA Organizational Effectiveness MBA Strategic Management Course Descriptions Course Schedule MBA Course Videos PhD Program Course Schedule Current Students Curriculum Evaluation Guidelines Postdoctoral Researchers Q&A For PhD Students Events and Calendars Department Information Administration Site Concur Travel & Expense Management (TEM) Contact Us Department Committees Department Directory Directions / Office Map Postdoctoral Researchers Staff Student Jobs Wharton Complex Classroom Capacity Find an Expert Stephanie Creary Assistant Professor of Management Contact Information Primary Email: sjcreary@wharton.upenn.edu Office Phone: (215) 898-6391 office Address: 2031 SH-DH 3620 Locust Walk Philadelphia, PA 19104 Research Interests: Identity, diversity, inclusion, boundaries, relationships Links: CV, Personal Website Overview Research Teaching Awards and Honors In the News Overview Professor Stephanie J. Creary is an organizational behavior scholar with expertise in identity, diversity, inclusion, and workplace relationships. She is also affiliated with several Institutes and Centers at Wharton/UPenn: Wharton People Analytics, Leonard Davis Institute for Health Economics, Penn Center for Africana Studies, the Gender, Sexuality, and Women’s Studies Program, and the Center for Research in Feminist, Queer, and Transgender Studies. Professor Creary actively integrates insights from both academia and practice in her research, teaching, and professional service activities, which are focused on creating more inclusive and equitable workplaces and organizations. She advises business school faculty from around the world on ways to effectively design and teach DEI courses, integrate DEI content into other courses, and create more inclusive classroom experiences. She has leaned on the insights she has gained from her research and teaching to advise organizational leaders, board directors, and investors on effective strategies for cultivating DEI in organizations. She currently hosts the Knowledge at Wharton Leading Diversity at Work Podcast Series where she engages in conversation with a variety of DEI experts. In one research stream, Professor Creary studies how people effectively manage inclusion tensions at work, including managing their multiple identities, integrating work and non-work boundaries, and managing different meanings of inclusion in ways that enhance workplace experiences. In a second research stream, she examines factors that motivate people to engage in and support DEI work. She has studied related dynamics in a variety of organizational contexts, including global companies, corporate board rooms, hospitals, yoga communities, and the US Army. Professor Creary has published her research in leading academic journals, including the Academy of Management Review and Organization Science. Insights from her research have also appeared in top popular press outlets, including Harvard Business Review, strategy+business, the New York Times, Bloomberg, NPR, Marketplace, and Time Magazine. Currently, she is on the editorial boards of three leading academic journals: Academy of Management Journal (AMJ), Organization Science, and Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes (OBHDP) . Professor Creary has received a number of honors and awards for her research, teaching, and commitment to professional service. She has been awarded grants from Wharton, Deloitte, Moody’s, DiversityInc, and the Executive Leadership Council to support her research. She has been awarded the Wharton Teaching Excellence Award four times for her work in developing and teaching the undergraduate (MGMT 2240) and MBA (MGMT 6240) “Leading Diversity in Organizations” courses. She has received an Outstanding Service Award from the Academy of Management. She has received Best Reviewer awards from both AMJ and OBHDP. She has been selected as a Visiting Faculty Fellow in the Inaugural Cohort of the Harvard Business School Institute for the Study of Business in Global Society (BiGS) during the 2022-2023 and 2023-2024 academic years. She has also received a fellowship from the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences (CASBS) at Stanford University Institute on Diversity for Summer 2023. Prior to joining the Wharton faculty, Professor Creary was on the faculty of Cornell University. Prior to completing her PhD degree, she was a research associate at Harvard Business School and The Conference Board in NYC researching corporate diversity and inclusion practices. She also has extensive work experience in the health care industry. Professor Creary has earned B.S. and M.S. degrees from the Boston University Sargent College of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences; an MBA degree from Simmons School of Management; and M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from the Boston College Carroll School of Management. Continue Reading Research US Congress House Committee on Financial Services Testimony on “Diversity in the Boardroom: Examining Proposals to Increase the Diversity of America’s Boards” Stephanie Creary and Karen Locke (2021), Breaking the cycle of overwork and recuperation: Altering somatic engagement across boundaries,. Sandra Cha, Stephanie Creary, Laura Morgan Roberts (2021), Fumbling in relationships across difference: The potential spiraling effects of a single racial identity reference at work,. Stephanie Creary, Nancy Rothbard, 27 co-authors (2021), COVID-19 and the workplace: Implications, Issues, and Insights for Future Research and Action,. Stephanie Creary, Mary-Hunter McDonnell, Sakshi Ghai, Jared Scruggs, When and why diversity improves your board’s performance. Brianna B. Caza, Lakshmi Ramarajan, Erin Reid, Stephanie Creary, How to make room in your work life for the rest of your self. Stephanie Creary and Laura M. Roberts, “G.I.V.E.-based mentoring in diverse organizations: Cultivating positive identities in diverse leaders”. In Mentoring diverse leaders: Creating change for people, processes, and paradigms, Taylor & Francis. edited by S. Blake-Beard and A. Murrell, (2017) Brianna B. Caza and Stephanie Creary, “The construction of professional identity”. In Perspectives on contemporary professional work, Elgar, edited by A. Wilkinson, D. Hislop and C. Coupland, (2016) Stephanie Creary, “Resourcefulness in action: The case for global diversity management”. In Positive organizing in a global society: Understanding and engaging differences for capacity-building and inclusion, Routledge, edited by L.M. Roberts, L. Wooten, & M. Davidson, (2015) Stephanie Creary and Judith R. Gordon, “Role conflict, role overload, and role strain”. In Encyclopedia of family studies, Wiley, edited by C. Shehan, (2015) Stephanie Creary, Brianna B. Caza, Laura M. Roberts (2015), Out of the box? How managing a subordinate’s multiple identities affects the quality of a manager-subordinate relationship, Academy of Management Review, 40 (4), pp. 538-562. Abstract: Positive manager-subordinate relationships are invaluable to organizations because they enable positive employee attitudes, citizenship behaviors, task performance, and more effective organizations. Yet extant theory provides a limited perspective on the factors that create these types of relationships. We highlight the important role subordinates also play in affecting the resource pool and propose that a subordinate’s multiple identities can provide him or her with access to knowledge and social capital resources that can be utilized for work-based tasks and activities. A manager and a subordinate may prefer similar or different strategies for managing the subordinate’s multiple identities, however, which can affect resource utilization and the quality of the manager-subordinate relationship. Our variance model summarizes our predictions about the effect of managers’ and subordinates’ strategy choices on the quality of manager-subordinate relationships. In doing so we integrate three divergent relational theories (leader-member exchange theory, relational-cultural theory, and a positive organizational scholarship perspective on positive relationships at work) and offer new insights on the quality of manager-subordinate relationships. Teaching Leading Diversity@Wharton Speaker Series Past Courses MGMT224 - LEADING DIVERSITY IN ORG People in the workplace are constantly interacting with peers, managers, and customers with very different backgrounds and experiences. When harnessed effectively, these differences can be the catalyst for creative breakthroughs and the pathway to team and organizational learning and effectiveness; but when misunderstood, these differences can challenge employees' values, performance, workplace relationships, and team effectiveness. This course is designed to help students navigate diverse organizational settings more effectively and improve their ability to work within and lead diverse teams and organizations. It also offers students the opportunity to develop their critical thinking on topics such as identity, relationships across difference, discrimination and bias, equality, and equity in organizations and society and how they relate to organizational issues of power, privilege, opportunity, inclusion,creativity and innovation and organizational effectiveness. Class sessions will be experiential and discussion-based. Readings, self-reflection, guest speakers from organizations, case studies and a final project will also be emphasized. MGMT2240 - Leading Diversity in Org People in the workplace are constantly interacting with peers, managers, and customers with very different backgrounds and experiences. When harnessed effectively, these differences can be the catalyst for creative breakthroughs and the pathway to team and organizational learning and effectiveness; but when misunderstood, these differences can challenge employees' values, performance, workplace relationships, and team effectiveness. This course is designed to help students navigate diverse organizational settings more effectively and improve their ability to work within and lead diverse teams and organizations. It also offers students the opportunity to develop their critical thinking on topics such as identity, relationships across difference, discrimination and bias, equality, and equity in organizations and society and how they relate to organizational issues of power, privilege, opportunity, inclusion,creativity and innovation and organizational effectiveness. Class sessions will be experiential and discussion-based. Readings, self-reflection, guest speakers from organizations, case studies and a final project will also be emphasized. By the end of this course, you should be able to: 1)Evaluate the aspects of yo ur identity and personal experiences that shape how you interact and engage with others and how they interact and engage with you in organizations 2)Explain how issues of power, privilege, discrimination, bias, equality, and equity influence opportunity and effectiveness in organizations 3)Propose ways to make relationships across difference in organizations more effective 4)Describe current perspectives on the relationships among diversity, inclusion, creativity, and innovation in organizations 5)Analyze a company's current approach to leading diversity and use content from this course to propose ways to enhance learning and effectiveness in that company. MGMT624 - LEADING DIVERSITY IN ORG People in the workplace are constantly interacting with peers, managers, and customers with very different backgrounds and experiences. When harnessed effectively, these differences can be the catalyst for creative breakthroughs and the pathway to team and organizational learning and effectiveness; but when misunderstood, these differences can challenge employees' values, performance, workplace relationships, and team effectiveness. This course is designed to help students navigate diverse organizational settings more effectively and improve their ability to work within and lead diverse teams and organizations. It also offers students the opportunity to develop their critical thinking on topics such as identity, relationships across difference, discrimination and bias, equality, and equity in organizations and society and how they relate to organizational issues of power, privilege, opportunity, inclusion,creativity and innovation and organizational effectiveness. Class sessions will be experiential and discussion-based. Readings, self-reflection, guest speakers from organizations, case studies and a final project will also be emphasized. MGMT6240 - Leading Diversity in Org People in the workplace are constantly interacting with peers, managers, and customers with very different backgrounds and experiences. When harnessed effectively, these differences can be the catalyst for creative breakthroughs and the pathway to team and organizational learning and effectiveness; but when misunderstood, these differences can challenge employees' values, performance, workplace relationships, and team effectiveness. This course is designed to help students navigate diverse organizational settings more effectively and improve their ability to work within and lead diverse teams and organizations. It also offers students the opportunity to develop their critical thinking on topics such as identity, relationships across difference, discrimination and bias, equality, and equity in organizations and society and how they relate to organizational issues of power, privilege, opportunity, inclusion,creativity and innovation and organizational effectiveness. Class sessions will be experiential and discussion-based. Readings, self-reflection, guest speakers from organizations, case studies and a final project will also be emphasized. By the end of this course, you should be able to: 1)Evaluate the aspects of yo ur identity and personal experiences that shape how you interact and engage with others and how they interact and engage with you in organizations 2)Explain how issues of power, privilege, discrimination, bias, equality, and equity influence opportunity and effectiveness in organizations 3)Propose ways to make relationships across difference in organizations more effective 4)Describe current perspectives on the relationships among diversity, inclusion, creativity, and innovation in organizations 5)Analyze a company's current approach to leading diversity and use content from this course to propose ways to enhance learning and effectiveness in that company. Awards and Honors Finalist x 2, Phillips and Nadkarni Award for Best Paper on Diversity and Cognition, Academy of Management, 2022 Fellowship from the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences (CASBS) at Stanford University Institute on Diversity, 2023 Visiting Faculty Fellowship, Harvard Business School Institute for Business in Global Society (BiGS), 2022-2024 OBHDP Best Reviewer Award, 2021 Academy of Management Journal Best Reviewer Award, 2021 Wharton Teaching Excellence Award, Undergraduate and MBA Programs, 2021 Wharton Teaching Excellence Award, 2020 #thinklist30, 2020 Description The #thinklist30 is a list of influential female scholars on social media around issues of responsible business. Wharton Center for Leadership and Change Management Research Grant, 2019 Elected Representative-at-Large, Managerial and Organizational Cognition (MOC) Division, Academy of Management, 2017 Faculty Fellow Research Grant, Engaged Cornell, 2016-2017 Faculty Fellow Research Grant, Engaged Cornell, 2016 Academy of Management Organizational Behavior (OB) Division Showcase Symposium, Symposium Chair, 2016 Cornell University Family Fellows Program Honored Guest, 2016 Cornell University Center for Engaged Learning and Teaching Research Grant, 2016 Cornell University Center for Teaching Excellence Research Grants, 2016 Cornell University Center for Teaching Excellence Research Grants, 2015 Cornell University Small Group Mentoring Program Grant, 2015 Academy of Management Managerial and Organizational Cognition (MOC) Division Showcase Symposium, Symposium Organizer, 2015 Academy of Management Managerial and Organizational Cognition (MOC) Division Outstanding Reviewer Award, 2015., 2015 Academy of Management Gender and Diversity in Organizations (GDO) Division Best Reviewer Award, 2014 Academy of Management Gender and Diversity in Organizations (GDO) Division Best Reviewer Award, 2013 Academy of Management Gender and Diversity in Organizations (GDO) Division Best Student Paper Award, 2013 Boston College Donald J. White Award for Teaching Excellence, 2012 AHANA Leadership Council and GLBTQ Leadership Council Faculty Recognition Award, Boston College, 2012 Academy of Management Emerald Award for Best International Symposium, Nominee, 2010 Simmons College Susan Bulkeley Butler Academic Prize, 2007 Simmons College Presidential Inauguration Ceremony Graduate Student Speaker, 2007 Simmons College Graduate Student Award for Civic Engagement, 2007 Boston University Outstanding Graduating Dance Student, 1998 Boston University Student Advisor of the Year, 1998 Boston University Scarlet Key Student Leadership Award, 1998 Boston University Sargent College of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences Community Service Award, 1997 In the News Speaking Out on Racism as a Company Leader, Wharton Magazine - 06/10/2020 Is “belonging” the new “D&I”?, Human Resource Executive - 04/29/2020 Why every US company has a stake in Bed Bath & Beyond’s heated boardroom war, CNBC - 05/09/2019 Keeping the Diversity Conversation Emotional: Why We Need to Keep Talking About Belonging at Work, LinkedIn - 03/13/2019 Wharton scholar talks workplace diversity, Penn Today - 02/15/2019 How Business Leaders Build Inclusive Workplaces in an Era of Discord, The Wharton School - 12/17/2018 Will an Employee Walkout Lead to Changes at Google?, Knowledge@Wharton - 11/13/2018 Google bows to worker pressure on sexual misconduct policy, The Associated Press - 11/08/2018 Google employees leave work to protest treatment of women, The Associated Press - 11/01/2018 Racial slurs and fat-shaming insults keep popping up on receipts. Is Trump worsening the trend?, Vox - 10/29/2018 Could a celebrity boycott of the Super Bowl really help Colin Kaepernick?, Vox - 10/23/2018 Why diversity is about much more than numbers, Knowledge@Wharton - 08/31/2018 Some Amazon employees are upset at company’s response to defaced LGBT office posters, CNBC - 08/29/2018 How Warby Parker Builds an Inclusive Workforce: Takeaways from Wharton MBA Pre-Term, The Wharton School - 08/27/2018 Learning to Be Color Brave, Knowledge@Wharton High School - 06/05/2018 Starbucks’s bias training finally happened. Here’s what it looked like., The Washington Post - 05/29/2018 What does unconscious bias training look like? I took 3 courses to find out, CNN Money - 05/29/2018 Here’s what to expect from today’s Starbucks racial bias training, The Washington Post - 05/29/2018 Could Starbucks’s Bias Training Affect How Businesses Handle Racism?, Racked - 05/29/2018 Thousands of Starbucks Closing for Anti-Bias Training, CNN At This Hour with Kate Bolduan - 05/29/2018 ‘Not who we aspire to be’: Starbucks previews next week’s racial bias training for 8,000 employees, The Washington Post - 05/23/2018 How Companies Can Develop Anti-Bias Strategies That Work, Knowledge@Wharton - 05/11/2018 RLJ’s new CEO joins a very exclusive club, Washington Business Journal - 04/11/2018 How Prof. Stephanie Creary Works Towards Inclusion in Research, Teaching, and Wharton Culture, The Wharton School - 03/13/2018 Why job referrals can hurt a company’s diversity, NBC News - 02/06/2018 New Year, New Gig: How to Master the Modern Job Search, Knowledge@Wharton - 12/29/2017 How Identity Informs Workplace Relationships, Knowledge@Wharton - 11/21/2017 Equity Investment: Improving Opportunities For Women and Minorities in Business, Wharton Magazine - 10/24/2017 Diversity Metrics & Measurement: Where Should Senior Executives Begin, The Society for Diversity - 12/05/2016 Trust Me, Trust Me Not, Strategy + Business - 09/22/2014 Multicultural Women: Our Stories Our Strengths, Working Mother - 05/08/2013 Managing ‘Survivor Syndrome’, PR Newswire - 06/15/2009 Portfolio Careerists Revel in Change, The Boston Globe - 01/27/2008 Knowledge @ Wharton Why More Companies Are Standing Up on Social Issues, Knowledge @ Wharton - 5/10/2022 How Data Analytics Can Help Advance DEI, Knowledge @ Wharton - 1/18/2022 Want to Stop the Great Resignation? Start Building Inclusive Workplaces, Knowledge @ Wharton - 12/7/2021 How Social Class Affects the Career Ladder, Knowledge @ Wharton - 10/29/2021 Protecting Your Mental Health at Work, Knowledge @ Wharton - 8/24/2021 Black Women Leaders: Navigating the Intersection of Gender and Race, Knowledge @ Wharton - 7/6/2021 How Middle Managers Can Help Make a More Equitable Workplace, Knowledge @ Wharton - 6/28/2021 Using Data Analytics as a Source for Change, Knowledge @ Wharton - 5/18/2021 Creating Equity in COVID-19 Testing and Vaccine Distribution, Knowledge @ Wharton - 5/4/2021 How Can the Luxury Industry Become More Inclusive?, Knowledge @ Wharton - 3/23/2021 Activity Latest Research Stephanie Creary and Karen Locke (2021), Breaking the cycle of overwork and recuperation: Altering somatic engagement across boundaries,.All Research In the NewsWhy More Companies Are Standing Up on Social Issues From the war in Ukraine to anti-LGBTQ+ legislation in Florida, companies are increasingly speaking out on social issues. Wharton management professor Stephanie Creary explains why silence is no longer golden for firms. …Read More Knowledge at Wharton - 5/10/2022All News Wharton MagazineMeritocracy, Bias, and Allyship in the Workplace Wharton Magazine - 10/16/2020 Additional Links Management Department Home Faculty Research Programs Events and Calendars Department Information Find an Expert Programs Undergraduate MBA EMBA Doctorate Executive Education Wharton Online Locations Philadelphia San Francisco Beijing The Power of Wharton Global Influence Analytics Entrepreneurship & Innovation Featured Give to Wharton Alumni Knowledge@Wharton Recruiters & Corporations Wharton Faculty About Us Research Centers Departments Resources Contact Us News Faculty & Staff Twitter Facebook LinkedIn YouTube InstagramSupport Wharton©2022 The Wharton School, The University of Pennsylvania | Management Department | Privacy Policy | Report Accessibility Issues and Get Help