Skip to Main Content Master of Health Care Delivery Science at Dartmouth Secondary Navigation Search News myHCDS On Campus Dates... August 15, 2022 Program Kickoff August 15-23, 2022 First Residential Session View Full Schedule ?> Connect With Us Open Menu Site Navigation Curriculum & Schedule MHCDS Advantage Who Should Apply? Admissions Student & Alumni Success Our Faculty You are here: Home Admissions The Master of Health Care Delivery Science (MHCDS) program at Dartmouth offers a career-transforming experience for health care professionals who are poised to be the health care leaders of tomorrow. Navigate this Section Navigate this Section Application Process Tuition & Aid Become an Agent of Health Care Change We seek to educate clinicians and administrators in health care organizations who have high potential to become change agents. We also welcome applicants from related fields, including health plans, government, legal, consultants, medical educators, U.S. military personnel, and managers from health-related industries, such as health information technology, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, human resources, and benefit design. We encourage you to contact us to learn more about whether the MHCDS program is right for you and your organization. Contact George Newcomb Director of Admissions 603-646-1222 george.l.newcomb@dartmouth.edu View a Program Brochure MHCDS 2022 Brochure Application Process and Deadlines There are two ways to apply to the MHCDS program: as an individual or as an organizational team member. Both team and individual applicants to the MHCDS program should apply online through the Dartmouth College graduate application system. There are three rounds of admissions in November, February, and April. Find out more about the application process Financing Your Education The MHCDS program awards a limited number of scholarships each year. Once admitted to the program, applicants are offered the opportunity to to apply for scholarships and financial aid. Learn about Tuition and Aid Set up time for a phone call with the Admissions Director Request a call Master of Health Care Delivery Science at Dartmouth 37 Dewey Field Road, HB 7253, Hanover NH 03755 (603) 646-1222 george.l.newcomb@dartmouth.edu Footer Navigation The Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Geisel School of Medicine The Dartmouth Institute Dartmouth College © Copyright 2022 - Trustees of Dartmouth College Web Accessibility Privacy Site Menu On Campus Dates... August 15, 2022 Program Kickoff August 15-23, 2022 First Residential Session View Full Schedule Connect With Us Site Navigation Curriculum & Schedule Schedule Core Courses Personal Leadership Development Action Learning Projects MHCDS Advantage Mission & Purpose MHCDS Learning Model MHCDS vs. Healthcare MBA MHCDS vs. Master of Public Health (MPH) Dartmouth, Tuck & Geisel School of Medicine Who Should Apply? Admissions Application Process Tuition & Aid Student & Alumni Success How MCHDS is Built for Success Success After MHCDS Our Faculty Secondary Navigation Search News myHCDS Close