Skip to Main Content Master of Health Care Delivery Science at Dartmouth Secondary Navigation Search News myHCDS On Campus Dates... August 15, 2022 Program Kickoff August 15-23, 2022 First Residential Session View Full Schedule ?> Connect With Us Open Menu Site Navigation Curriculum & Schedule MHCDS Advantage Who Should Apply? Admissions Student & Alumni Success Our Faculty Prepare to Lead in Health Care: Transform Your Career, Your Organization & Health Care Delivery The Master of Health Care Delivery Science (MHCDS) degree at Dartmouth College offers physician and executive leaders the strong foundation and the advanced skills and knowledge they need to design and lead crucial transformations within their organizations and across the health care industry. Download a program brochure MHCDS 2022 Brochure The 12-month degree program allows you to advance your career while gaining an exceptional Ivy-League education. Students at Dartmouth share perspectives and learn from a tightly-focused, highly relevant curriculum that brings the best of an MBA and an MPH. explore the curriculum Our students work in vitally important positions with strenuous demands on their time. They come from diverse backgrounds within health care, from physicians to administrators to policymakers and insurance executives. They are drawn to Dartmouth to grow new capabilities with immediate payoff and long term impact on their careers and on the organizations in which they work. The hybrid structure of the MHCDS program blends brief on-campus periods of networking and relationship building with flexible, online coursework—to allow you to develop leadership skills and cutting-edge knowledge without compromising your career. Explore the program in more detail Join the Best Minds in Health Care The best teaching and research faculty from the Tuck School of Business and the Geisel School of Medicine blends with a cohort of professional students with their own expertise to create an incubator and accelerator of innovative solutions to the challenges faced in health care today. Class of 2018 Kyle Hair, MHCDS Division Director, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER) Food and Drug Administration “I have developed relationships with people who are at the top of their field, exhibiting all forms of leadership – from physicians, and policy experts to CEOs and CMOs – I am confident in the fact that I am leaving with a 'Swiss Army knife' portfolio of experts who I can call upon at any time for their perspectives and ideas.” Kyle Hair, MHCDS Faculty Katherine Milligan, MBA, PhD Program Director, MHCDS Dartmouth College “My faculty colleagues at Geisel and Tuck cherish the opportunity to work with such talented and experienced students. The brief residential sessions are intense by design as they help build the tight community of students and faculty, which makes the online portion of the program so effective.” Katherine Milligan, MBA, PhD Meet The Best Minds in Health Care Meet the Faculty Meet Our Students What differentiates a Master of Health Care Delivery Science degree from... A Healthcare MBA A Master of Public Health Set up time for a phone call with the Admissions Director Request a call Master of Health Care Delivery Science at Dartmouth 37 Dewey Field Road, HB 7253, Hanover NH 03755 (603) 646-1222 george.l.newcomb@dartmouth.edu Footer Navigation The Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth Geisel School of Medicine The Dartmouth Institute Dartmouth College © Copyright 2022 - Trustees of Dartmouth College Web Accessibility Privacy Site Menu On Campus Dates... August 15, 2022 Program Kickoff August 15-23, 2022 First Residential Session View Full Schedule Connect With Us Site Navigation Curriculum & Schedule Schedule Core Courses Personal Leadership Development Action Learning Projects MHCDS Advantage Mission & Purpose MHCDS Learning Model MHCDS vs. Healthcare MBA MHCDS vs. Master of Public Health (MPH) Dartmouth, Tuck & Geisel School of Medicine Who Should Apply? Admissions Application Process Tuition & Aid Student & Alumni Success How MCHDS is Built for Success Success After MHCDS Our Faculty Secondary Navigation Search News myHCDS Close