Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Online Degrees Doctor of Education Applied Learning Sciences Master of Science in Education Applied Learning Sciences Master of Business Administration Master of Science in Education Sport Administration Master of Public Administration Master of Science in Finance Master of Arts in Live Entertainment Management Master of Arts in Music Industry Student Experience Day in the Life Interactive Learning Student Support About Us Insight Blog Alumni Network Career Services Faculty Reputation and Accreditation Admissions Deadlines and How to Apply Military International Tuition and Aid Current Students Online Degrees Student Experience About Us Admissions Tuition and Aid Current Students Search Online Degrees Doctor of Education Applied Learning Sciences Master of Science in Education Applied Learning Sciences Master of Business Administration Master of Science in Education Sport Administration Master of Public Administration Master of Science in Finance Master of Arts in Live Entertainment Management Master of Arts in Music Industry Student Experience Day in the Life Interactive Learning Student Support About Us Insight Blog Alumni Network Career Services Faculty Reputation and Accreditation Admissions Deadlines and How to Apply Military International Tuition and Aid Current Students Career Accelerators. Opportunity Makers. Your Faculty. A global alumni network. Designed with you in mind. Career Accelerators. Opportunity Makers. Your Faculty. A global alumni network. Designed with you in mind. GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Apply GET STARTED 1 Request Info 2 Apply Online Programs Doctor of Education Applied Learning Sciences Master of Public Administration Master of Science in Education Applied Learning Sciences Master of Arts in Live Entertainment Management Master of Science in Education Sport Administration Master of Science in Finance Master of Arts in Music Industry Fall 2022 Application Deadline Ready to apply? For students who wish to start classes on September 5, 2022 the early decision deadline is July 11. Download the UOnline Application Checklist for a step-by-step guide through the simplified application process and contact an enrollment advisor to waive your $300 deposit fee. WEEKS DAYS HOURS MINUTES SECONDS News and Events EVENTS What it's Like to Study in UOnline "The program is designed to fit your schedule and you will still learn what you would learn in an on-campus program, but you can still be a full-time professional." Lily Yeung, Senior Financial Analyst, UOnline graduate Stay Connected with UOnline Learn From Leaders UOnline courses are taught by the same unmatched faculty who teach on campus. Students receive the same guidance, expertise, and access to vast professional networks. While you may be learning online, our faculty is just on the other side of your screen, fully committed, and engaged in your success. Faculty Info Want more stories from the U? UOnline Insight Blog University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 UOnline 5050 Brunson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 1-800-411-2290 1-800-411-2290 Doctor of Education in Applied Learning Sciences Master of Education in Applied Learning Sciences Master of Education in Sport Administration Master of Business Administration Master of Professional Accounting Master of Science in Finance Master of Public Administration Master of Arts in Live Entertainment Management Master of Arts in Music Industry UOnline Portal Login Student Services Admissions Privacy Policy Cookie Policy University of Miami Accreditation Connect social-facebook social-instagram social-linkedin social-twitter social-youtube Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices