Skip to content USC Toggle search interface Search Search Site Close search interface Menu Toggle extended navigation USC Michelson Center for Convergent Bioscience Welcome About Gary K. Michelson and Alya Michelson About the Building Faculty Research Agilent Center Of Excellence In Biomolecular Characterization Bridge Institute Center for Discovery Informatics Convergent Science Institute in Cancer: CSI–Cancer Core Center of Excellence in Nano Imaging Dynamic Imaging Science Center (DISC) John O’Brien Nanofabrication Laboratory Translational Imaging Center USC Center for Drug Discovery and Development News More Menu Toggle extended navigation The Impact of Convergent Bioscience The faculty and research teams of the USC Michelson Center for Convergent Bioscience are working on new frontiers in medicine and health. Interdisciplinary collaboration is leading to the development of new life-saving devices and therapeutics. Science and engineering come together to improve lives The USC Michelson Center for Convergent Bioscience is tackling the most critical health issues of our time by transforming how research is conducted. With this new building, we’re taking down walls that have separated experts in different disciplines fighting the same disease. A hub of medical advancement Advances in the understanding of living systems spurred by the genome revolution – coupled with improvements in computing technology – have positioned humanity to make undreamed-of advances in the biological sciences in the near future. At USC, collaboration will lead the way With the tools and infrastructure here, USC is becoming a destination for training the world about how convergence can be applied to medicine, science and engineering. Groundbreaking Research The faculty and students at the USC Michelson Center for Convergent Bioscience will discover new frontiers in medicine and health. Interdisciplinary teams will work together to better understand health and to develop new life-saving devices and therapeutics. USC MICHELSON CENTER FOR CONVERGENT BIOSCIENCE 1002 West Childs Way Los Angeles, CA 90089 (213) 821-9849 University of Southern California Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination Content managed by USC Office of the Provost Close Menu Search Welcome AboutOpen submenu Gary K. Michelson and Alya Michelson About the Building Faculty ResearchOpen submenu Agilent Center Of Excellence In Biomolecular Characterization Bridge Institute Center for Discovery Informatics Convergent Science Institute in Cancer: CSI–Cancer Core Center of Excellence in Nano Imaging Dynamic Imaging Science Center (DISC) John O’Brien Nanofabrication Laboratory Translational Imaging Center USC Center for Drug Discovery and Development News