Skip to main content For COVID-19 vaccine updates, please review our information guide. For patient eligibility and scheduling availability, please visit VaccineTogetherNY.org. Enter the terms you wish to search for. Select Search Option This Site All WCM Sites Directory Menu Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Microbiology and Immunology Explore this Website Home About UsToggle About Us menu options Contact Us Open Positions Programs of Study Our Faculty Students & Research Fellows Publications News and EventsToggle News and Events menu options Events Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Home About Us Our Faculty Students & Research Fellows Publications News and Events Meet Our Faculty Francis Barany, Ph.D. Professor of Microbiology and Immunology barany@med.cornell.edu Rm. B-407 Tel: (212) 746-6509 Fax: (212) 746-7983 Molecular profiling of colon cancer Search Faculty by Category Faculty Categories Primary Qatar Joint Emeritus Adjunct Methodist Recent Publications Here is a sample of recent papers from our faculty. Go there Now Programs of Study Learn more about our academic opportunities. Go there Now News And Updates T Cell Behavior Determines Which Tumors Respond to Treatment Immunotherapy unleashes the power of the immune system to fight cancer. However, for some patients, immunotherapy doesn’t work, and new research may... Read Full Article CinA Protein Contributes to Drug Tolerance in Mycobacterium tuberculosis Weill Cornell Medicine researchers have identified a protein in Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) that contributes to drug tolerance, a phenomenon... Read Full Article Events April 30, 2021 - 4:00pm Diversity Week - Making Precision Medicine Socially Precise Department of Microbiology and Immunology and Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine Esteban G. Burchard, MD, MPH Harry Wm. and Diana V. Hind Distinguished Professor in Pharmaceutical Sciences Professor and Vice Chair, Departments of Bioengineering & Therapeutic Sciences and Medicine Director, Center for Genes, Environments & Health University of California, San Francisco Event Details February 8, 2021 - 12:00pm Department Of Microbiology And Immunology Monthly Research In Progress Seminars Sarah Schrader, MD/PhD Candidate Nathan Lab “Perturbation of arginine biosynthesis in mycobacteria elicits tolerance, persistence, and MIC-shifted resistance to antibiotics with other targets” Tingting Li, PhD Guo Lab “Gut bacterial transamination impacts host amino acid homeostasis and physiology” Please email Deidre McIntosh-Brown, dem2017@med.cornell.edu. for ZOOM details. Meetings will occur from 12:00-1:00 pm on the 2nd Monday of each month from October 12, 2020-July 12, 2021 Via Zoom Our Location Microbiology and Immunology Contact Us 1300 York Avenue, Box 62 New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-6505 Fax: (212) 746-8587 About Us Contact Us Open Positions Programs of Study Our Faculty Students & Research Fellows Publications News and Events Events Care. Discover. Teach. With a legacy of putting patients first, Weill Cornell Medicine is committed to providing exemplary and individualized clinical care, making groundbreaking biomedical discoveries, and educating generations of exceptional doctors and scientists. Weill Cornell Medicine © Weill Cornell Medicine. Privacy & Legal Careers Giving Directory Web Accessibility Assistance