Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Core Research Resource Lab Ralph N. Adams Nanofabrication Facility myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home Services Equipment Select to follow link Photolithography Select to follow link Mask Writer Flood Source HMDS Oven Spin Coater & Baking Tools SU8 Laminating Deposition Select to follow link DC Sputterer E-Beam Evaporator Plasma Deposition Quorum Sputter Coater Denton Sputter Coater Etching Select to follow link Plasma Etching Plasma Reactors Wet Etch Room Embossing Select to follow link Nanoimprint Lithography Wabash Press Metrology Select to follow link Hitachi SEM Ellipsometry Digital Microscope Profilometers Tensiometer Imaging & Inspection Soft Lithography Select to follow link PDMS Station PDMS Spin Coater PDMS Alignment Tool PDMS Port Creator Corona Treater Plasma Reactor PVD Chamber 3D Printing Select to follow link 3D Systems Figure 4 Stratasys Mojo Printer General Process Equipment Select to follow link CO2 LASER Engraver Wafer Dicer Furnaces & Ovens Rate & Fees Resources Select to follow link Internal and External Resources Software Contact Select to follow link People Locate Service Request Form Associated Research Centers Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Core Research Resource Lab Ralph N. Adams Nanofabrication Facility Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Ralph N. Adams Nanofabrication Facility Our Purpose The KU Nanofabrication Facility is a Core Lab supported by the University of Kansas Center for Research and the Center for Molecular Analysis of Disease Pathways. The KU Nanofab primarily caters to researchers who are manufacturing micro- and nanofluidic devices for biomedical research, but has the equipment and resources to accommodate broad research applications with micro- and nanofabrication needs. Our Facility The KU Nanofabrication Facility is located in the newly-constructed Gray-Little Hall in the Central District of the University of Kansas Lawrence campus. The facility consists of about 1,300 ft2 of ISO class 5, 1,700 ft2 of ISO class 6 and 2,700 ft2 of ISO class 7 cleanroom space. Our Capabilities The facility house tools and materials for techniques including photolithography, nano-imprint lithography, plasma (dry) etching (ICP-RIE), wet etching, metal and dielectric material thin film deposition, metrology, wafer dicing, laser ablation and engraving, 3D printing, and hot embossing. In addition, the facility has numerous microscopes for general inspection, ovens and furnaces, ultrapure water, dedicated process fume hoods and filtered lighting for photolithography. COMSOL software for device modeling is available for paying users as well. Find Out More Services and usage of the facility are available to researchers from all public and private research institutions. Services Services Rates Rates Service Request Form Service Request Form Wet Etch Room Gray-Little Hall (Formerly ISB/CDS1) 1567 Irving Hill Road, Room 1180 Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 11, 38, 41, 42, 43 KUnanofab@ku.edu 785-864-1918 Center for Molecular Analysis of Disease Pathways (CMADP) Genome Sequencing Core Synthetic Chemical Biology Core Facility Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.