Skip to Content Institutional Effectiveness & Assessment Open Close primary navigation Search Search AboutExpand Collapse section Institutional Effectiveness Forum on Institutional Effectiveness IEA Team Contact Us AssessmentExpand Collapse section History of Assessment at Syracuse University Assessment Areas Roles in the Assessment Process Assessment Resources Professional Development, Mini-Grants & Events Annual Progress Report Meta-Assessment Study FAQs Shared CompetenciesExpand Collapse section Course Tagging Professional Development Purpose & Principles Communities of Practice Mapping Exercise Shared Competencies FAQs History of the Shared Competencies Program ReviewExpand Collapse section Schedule for 2021 Schedule for 2020 Schedule for 2019 Schedule for 2018 Schedule for 2017 Market Insights Research APS Course FeedbackExpand Collapse section What’s New? Course Feedback SystemExpand Collapse section Information for Students Information for Instructors Information for Administrators Policies and Practices Feedback Form Template Important Dates Mid-Course Feedback FAQs Faculty PortfoliosExpand Collapse section An Overview Key Benefits FAQs Exam ScoringExpand Collapse section Policies and Procedures Instructions to Submit Exams Exam Drop-off/Pick-up Accreditation Strategic PlanningExpand Collapse section Strategic Planning Resources Syracuse University Plans Taskstream Books & Articles Search Search Home Shared Competencies In this Section Shared Competencies Syracuse University’s Shared Competencies are six institutional learning goals that enhance undergraduate education through an integrated learning approach. Undergraduate students develop competencies through their major degree courses, liberal arts requirements, and co-curricular experiences. The Shared Competencies enable students to communicate their learning experience, provide pathways for academic development, and integrate different aspects of a Syracuse University education. Each competency includes corresponding framing language that communicates the content of that competency to educators and learners. The framing language suggests a range of knowledge, skills, and attributes that each competency entails. Competency Framing Language Ethics, Integrity, and Commitment to Diversity and Inclusion Reflection on the dynamic relationships among power, inequality, identities, and social structures. Thoughtful engagement with one’s values, intersectional identities, experiences, and diverse perspectives and people. Application of ethical and inclusive decision-making in the context of personal, academic, professional, and collaborative pursuits. Critical and Creative Thinking Exploration and synthesis of ideas, artifacts, issues, and events to inform and evaluate arguments, develop new insights, and produce creative work. Reflection on, and application of divergent modes of inquiry, analysis, and innovation to research, knowledge, and artistic creation. Scientific Inquiry and Research Skills Application of scientific inquiry and problem-solving in various contexts. Analysis of theories, replication of procedures, and rethinking existing frameworks. Supporting arguments through research, data, and quantitative and qualitative evidence that can generate new knowledge. Civic and Global Responsibility Knowledge, exploration, and analysis of the complexity surrounding interdependent local, national, and global affairs. Engagement in responsible, collaborative, and inclusive civic and cross-cultural learning, with an emphasis on public, global, and historical issues. Communication Skills Effective individual, interpersonal, and collaborative presentation and development of ideas through oral, written, and other forms of expression to inform, persuade, or inspire. Information Literacy and Technological Agility Identification, collection, evaluation, and responsible use of information. Effective, ethical, and critical application of various technologies and media in academic, creative, personal, and professional endeavors. In this Section Course Tagging Professional Development Purpose & Principles Communities of Practice Mapping Exercise Shared Competencies FAQs History of the Shared Competencies Crouse-Hinds Hall, Suite 100 - 900 S. Crouse Ave. Syracuse, NY 13244 | 315-443-4119 © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy