Syracuse University | Middle States Commission on Higher Education Skip to Content Toggle navigation People Search Search SU Search Show All Results Close search results Self-Study 2018 Steering Committee Teams Compliance Accreditation Status Contact Us News Shared Competencies Middle States Commission on Higher Education Overview October 6, 2014 • by James Zullo Middle States Commission On Higher Education Syracuse University is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education, 1007 North Orange Street, 4th floor, MB #166, Wilmington DE, 19801. The Middle States Commission on Higher Education is an institutional accrediting agency recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation. As required by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education, Syracuse University must conduct a self-study of its academic and co-curricular programs and functional operations every 8 years to retain its Middle States accreditation. The current self-study began in fall 2015 and culminates with a Middle States peer review in spring 2018. The self-study process identifies the University’s strengths and reveals areas that require improvement. The process is an inclusive effort, achieved by forming committees representing schools, colleges, departments and units from across the campus, maintaining a dialogue between the University and the community, and communicating in a way that guarantees visibility and transparency. The ultimate goal of ensuring our programs exceed the accreditation standards while reflecting our vision of a student-focused research university depends on the support of the Syracuse students, faculty, staff, and community. News & Headlines A Visit from Middle States April 4, 2018 ’Twas the week after Visit, when all through Steele Not a creature was stirring, not even for a meal… Middle States Blog: A Poem March 21, 2018 ’Twas the Friday before Middle States and all the campus was cheering because March Madness is here. Yet the accreditation banners are being hung in the Sheraton with care to welcome our MSCHE visitors as they will soon be here. The self-study is posted on Middlestates.syr.edu for all Syracuse to read. And briefing documents were… Middle States Blog: A Visit to Florence Center February 28, 2018 This week officially began the first part of our Syracuse University Middle States Visit. The chair of our site team, Dr. James Bean, Northeastern University’s provost, joined Syracuse University’s provost, Dr. Michele Wheatly, and Petra Hejnova, Syracuse Abroad interim executive director, for an evaluation of our Syracuse Florence Center. Dr. Sasha Perugini, director of the… Read More News © 2022 – Syracuse University. All Rights Reserved. • Accessibility | Privacy | Status | syr.edu