Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Stanford Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Search this site Submit Search Menu Home News Ways To Connect Apply to Stanford Undergraduate Applicant Information Graduate/Doctorate Applicant Information Frequently Asked Questions Campus Life Photos VA Education Benefits ROTC Resources On-Campus Resources Off-Campus Resources Main content start What is OMAC? The Office for Military-Affiliated Communities (OMAC) assists student veterans, their dependents, and ROTC cadets in successfully transitioning into and out of the Stanford community. We do this by connecting students to campus and community resources and supporting and advocating for our student veterans and ROTC cadets. OMAC also engages with Stanford students, staff, and faculty who are interested in learning more about the military-affiliated community. We also advise students who are exploring options to serve in the Armed Forces post-graduation. What are some examples of the military-affiliated community? Service in the US military, or an international student that served in their home country’s military. You have a close family member that served in the military. You found yourself working closely with members of the military or veterans. A professor that has one or more veteran students in class. Students who are participating in the ROTC program. Contact Us: 459 Lagunita Drive, Suite 7 Tresidder Memorial Union, 2nd floor Stanford, CA 94305 Email: military-omac@stanford.edu Stanford Office for Military-Affiliated Communities Web Login Address Office for Military-Affiliated Communities 520 Lasuen Mall Stanford, CA 94305 United States Visit Campus Map Contact Us Stanford Facebook OMAC Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top