Network Home Help and Support Log In Search Home About Mission People Contact Us Programs Events MindCORE Seminar Series MindCORE Behind the CV: Stories from Faculty MindCORE Writing Room MindCORE Yoga Pinkel Endowed Lecture Series Professional Development Series Online Recordings Apply Activity Fund Collaborative Research Proposals Family Care Grants MindCORE Summer Research Fellowship Postdoctoral Research Fellowship Step-Ahead Mentorship Program Resources Select Page mindCORE Penn’s hub for the integrative study of the mind, connecting researchers across our campus and with our community. Learn More Outreach MindCORE increases the broader societal impact of new knowledge about human behavior and decision making gained from current research, and inﬂuences public policy and education through coordinated outreach programs Learn More Research MindCORE bring together faculty with diverse approaches to the study of the mind, from disciplines in the Arts & Sciences to centers and departments in Business, Engineering, Medicine, and other schools. Learn More Education MindCORE is the home of several undergraduate and graduate programs that are educating the next generation of students of the mind. Learn More Integrated Language Sciences & Technology Bringing together language science and technology at Penn Learn More SBSI Learn More Social & Cultural Evolution Working Group Uniting evolutionary and social sciences at Penn Learn More MindCORE seeks to maintain a supportive community while adhering to the University’s policies regarding the global outbreak of coronavirus. Visit coronavirus.upenn.edu for the latest updates, including links to preventive health and travel advisories. View All Interested in supporting MindCORE? Make a Gift Tweets by PennMindCORE Interviews with Scientists Michael Lee, PhD "I’m a big fan of what’s called solution-driven science." An interview with Michael Lee, PhD (Professor of Cognitive Sciences,... Read More Mirta Galesic, PhD "It's important to just raise your hand, ask the stupid question, and try to encourage the other person to explain things in... Read More Avram Holmes, PhD "I'm excited that we're hitting a point where people are publicly acknowledging their struggles, and [psychiatric illnesses are]... Read More Zhenghan Qi, MD, PhD "...Collaboration that promotes transparent, sharable, and reproducible research will help us look at variability [in language... Read More Michael Frank, PhD “The fact that language development is dependent on our experiences and internal states and varies so much is exciting.” An... Read More Jessie Sun, PhD “Are people who are moral happier?” An Interview with Jessie Sun, PhD (MindCORE Postdoctoral Fellow, University of... Read More Janice Chen, PhD “When you study memory, you come to realize it's both accurate and inaccurate…I think having skepticism about your own... Read More Daniela Schiller, PhD "...Other people are also essential or detrimental for survival...I'm interested to see how the brain represents social others... Read More Jon Freeman, PhD “You can get people to stop judging…trustworthiness in the short term. The question is: how long do these things persist?”... Read More Nicole Holliday, PhD "I like that we can quantify speech. We’re so affected by the way that people talk to us, not just what they say, but also their... Read More Recruit research participants on MindCORE Sona Click to learn more! View Accessible Version Donate Search for: Facebook Twitter University of Pennsylvania | MindCORE | 112 Leidy Labs, 3740 Hamilton Walk | pennmindcore@sas.upenn.edu | 215-573-1111