Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Camp General Info Programs and Activities Contact Us Registration Camp Staff Admin Staff Join Our Camp Staff Parent Resources Facilities Give to Mini Canes About Camp Registration Camp Staff Parent Resources Facilities Give to Mini Canes Search About Camp General Info Programs and Activities Contact Us Registration Camp Staff Admin Staff Join Our Camp Staff Parent Resources Facilities Give to Mini Canes Camp Registration About Camp Registration Camp Staff Parent Resources Facilities Give to Mini Canes Home Camp Registration AAA Camp Registration Registration deadlines are based on camper status and University of Miami affiliation. Registration is available for online only. More information can be found below. 2022 Camp Dates Session Dates I June 13 - June 24* II June 27 - July 8* III July 11 - July 22 IV July 25 - Aug. 5 *University will be closed Monday, June 20 and Monday, July 4 2022 Registration Deadlines Registration is on a first-come, first-served basis provided space is available. Registration deadlines are based on camper status and University of Miami affiliation. Parent/Guardian(s) who miss their initial registration deadline are eligible to register on a subsequent registration date but lose priority. Camp tuition is non-transferable to other sessions. If sessions are full, campers will be wait-listed. All groups are determined by age not grade. Returning Campers and New Siblings (from previous summer): 2/14 - 3/4 UM Affiliates (New Campers)*: 3/14 - 25 Outside Community: 4/4 - Until Filled *UM Alumni: Cane/Alumni Association card, another form of identification, and C# are required to register. Contact the alumni office to obtain your electronic alumni card here. Camp Fees $450 for each 2-week session for Herbert Wellness Center members* $500 for each 2-week session for non-members $100 for each 2-week session of After Care (Camp tuition is non-transferable.) Acceptable forms of payment: Visa or Master Card. *Must be a Herbert Wellness Center member at time of registration and throughout the summer. Online Registration Procedures Create your profile as a guest online and add dependents (this is for those who do not have a wellness center account yet.) Click here for instructions. Visit the online services page to access the registration portal. Note: Please make sure you have a unique email on file for each parent in order to log on correctly (excudes students, faculty and staff) Returners need to submit all updated vaccinations and make any changes in health history if any. 2022 Mini Canes Camp Enrollment Packet Camper's completed enrollment packet will need to be emailed to minicanescamp@miami.edu . Instructions: Download the Mini Canes Camp Enrollment Packet and type-in all required information. Save your files for your records. For the Health History form, complete the top of the form, print, sign, and then have your child’s physician complete the remainder of the form before submitting. A complete enrollment packet includes: Original birth certificate for all new campers Camper Picture (recent head shot) Enrollment Form Health History Form (Blue and yellow form will be accepted for bottom portion) Copy of Alumni Card during UM affliliate registration period. Contact Alumni Office here for assistance on on Alumni Card. Steps to Register Step 1. To expedite the enrollment process, create your profile as a guest online and add dependents (this is for those who do not have a wellness center account yet.) Click here for instructions. Step 2. Email completed enrollment packet to minicanescamp@miami.edu Step 3. We will confirm and notify you that you can register online. Details on how to do so will be communicated to you during confirmation. Please allow us one full business day to review and confirm. You will have until the end of your registration period to enroll Please do not send your enrollment packet before the registration period as it will not be accepted Failure to register during that period will require for you to resubmit all required paperwork during your next enrollment period If an incomplete enrollment packet is submitted, you will be notified and will have to re-submit all required information again All spots are first come, first serve Cancellation Policy All requests to cancel a camper from a session MUST be submitted in writing to the office prior to the session starting. Tuition is non-transferable to other sessions. More than 6 weeks: $100 cancellation fee 6 weeks - 5 business days: $200 cancellation fee Less than 5 days: no refund Camp staff reserves the right to cancel any session or modify activities or groups due to enrollment, facility problems, staffing concerns or circumstances beyond its control (i.e. rain, pool problems or electrical outages). University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Wellness Center 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices