Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Camp General Info Programs and Activities Contact Us Registration Camp Staff Admin Staff Join Our Camp Staff Parent Resources Facilities Give to Mini Canes About Camp Registration Camp Staff Parent Resources Facilities Give to Mini Canes Search About Camp General Info Programs and Activities Contact Us Registration Camp Staff Admin Staff Join Our Camp Staff Parent Resources Facilities Give to Mini Canes Parent Resources About Camp Registration Camp Staff Parent Resources Facilities Give to Mini Canes Home Camp Parent Resources AAA Camp Parent Resources The information included below is designed to answer many questions for current camp parents. Parent Resource Documents Camp Parent Handbook Morning Drop-Off Parking Map Session Calendar of Events (coming soon) Camp Hours Camp sessions are scheduled Monday through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Supervised camper drop-off begins at 8:45 a.m. and goes until camp begins at 9:00 a.m. Pick-up is scheduled between 4:00 and 4:15 p.m. Requests for early dismissals must be submitted to the Administrative Office by noon on the day of the request. Early dismissals prior to 3:00 p.m. will not be accepted. About the Art Show Campers display their art creations at the art show the second Thursday of every camp session. Parents and guest are encouraged to visit the Herbert Wellness Center Atrium to see their child’s art work. The art show runs from Thursday morning to Friday morning. Campers collect their art projects during art class on the last day of the camp session to take home. About Extravaganza Extravaganza begins promptly at 3:30 p.m. on the last Friday of the session in Centre Court. Make sure to arrive early as seats fill up quickly! Parking without a parking permit or failure to pay via PaytoPark app will result in being ticketed. For more information please visit the parking and transportation website. Parents and guest are welcome to take pictures and film of the extravaganza show. Dismissal will commence as usual at the end of the show. Extravaganza Videos Missed an extravaganza show or want to see it again? Check out the Mini Canes YouTube Channel to see our collection of Extravaganza videos. Photos and Videos To see more photos, please visit our Flickr gallery. To view Extravaganza videos, visit the Mini Canes Playlist on the Herbert Wellness Center's YouTube page. Contact Information Mini Canes Recreational Sports Camp University of Miami Herbert Wellness Center, Room 210 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-8510 minicanescamp@miami.edu University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Wellness Center 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices