Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Camp General Info Programs and Activities Contact Us Registration Camp Staff Admin Staff Join Our Camp Staff Parent Resources Facilities Give to Mini Canes About Camp Registration Camp Staff Parent Resources Facilities Give to Mini Canes Search About Camp Programs and Activities Contact Us About Camp General Info Programs and Activities Contact Us Registration Camp Staff Admin Staff Join Our Camp Staff Parent Resources Facilities Give to Mini Canes About Camp Programs and Activities Contact Us About Camp Registration Camp Staff Parent Resources Facilities Give to Mini Canes Home About Camp AAA About Mini Canes Camp About Camp Programs and Activities Contact Us The goal of Mini Canes Camp is to teach campers the importance of developing lifelong sports and recreation skills, all while having fun. Mini Canes Recreational Sports Camp offers educational recreational experiences in a high-quality, fun and safe learning environment to children aged 6-12 years old. Camp is divided into four two-week sessions. Each session offers a wide variety of sports and other activities for a fun-filled summer. In addition to the "Sport of the Week" and special events, campers can swim, play sports, and take part in a variety of other indoor games and activities. Educational emphasis is placed on developing a lifestyle with health, fitness and safety in mind. The many features of the Herbert Wellness Center allow campers to participate in a variety of recreational sports and leisure activities. Activities may include: daily swim lessons, sports and games, wellness education, arts and crafts and cooking lessons. Sports frequently taught include basketball, kickball, flag football, soccer, softball and racquet sports. Camp Groups Campers are divided into groups according to age. Special attention is paid to the individual age and skill level of each camper. For the safety of the campers, requests to change groups will not be accepted. Group Age Canes 6 Manatees 7 Panthers 8 Dolphins 9 Marlins 10 Heat 11-12 Camp Hours Camp sessions are scheduled Monday through Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Supervised camper drop-off begins at 8:45 a.m. and goes until camp begins at 9:00 a.m. Pick-up is scheduled between 4:00 and 4:15 p.m. Requests for early dismissals must be submitted to the Administrative Office by noon on the day of the request. Early dismissals after 3:00 p.m. will not be accepted. Extended Care Optional extended care is available at a nominal rate for those campers who wish to arrive early or remain late. Afternoon care extends from 4:00 p.m. to 6:00 p.m. Extended care service MUST be paid in advance along with camp tuition. Awards Mini Canes Camp has been named one of the top summer camps in Miami-Dade County by South Florida Parenting Magazine six times, and is run by energetic, well-qualified University of Miami professionals, Miami-Dade County teachers, and college students. Mini Canes SuperLife program was named the Best Children’s Program by Club Industry’s 2012 Best of the Best Awards and was honored at the Club Industry Conference and Exposition for Fitness Business Professionals in October 2012. The camp has received Best Summer Day Camp in Miami-Dade County from South Florida Parenting Magazine in 1996, 1997, 1998, 2002, 2004, 2008, 2010, and 2011. Health and Safety Feel secure in knowing that your son and/or daughter is participating in a camp program sponsored and administered by University of Miami professionals. Camp operates in compliance with federal, state, and local standards for health. Camp counselors are qualified professionals and college students. The camper to staff ratio is 8 to 1, which allows for individual instruction. All camp staff must pass a drug test, criminal background check, and are finger printed. A staff member certified in First Aid, CPR, and AED is on duty at all times. Insurance The cost of supplemental medical insurance is included in the camp tuition. Coverage supplements parents’ insurance plan for most injuries and accidents while the child is on the University of Miami campus attending camp. Health History and Parent Consent Forms No new camper will be allowed to register for camp without a completed health history form or the yellow and blue form. It is the responsibility of the parent/guardian to have their child’s physician complete the required forms. For returning campers, any updated information needs to be submited to the main office. A parent consent form is required to be signed at the time of registration for each camper. Contact Information Mini Canes Recreational Sports Camp University of Miami Herbert Wellness Center, Room 210 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-8510 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Wellness Center 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices