Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site About Camp General Info Programs and Activities Contact Us Registration Camp Staff Admin Staff Join Our Camp Staff Parent Resources Facilities Give to Mini Canes About Camp Registration Camp Staff Parent Resources Facilities Give to Mini Canes Search Camp Staff Join Camp Staff About Camp General Info Programs and Activities Contact Us Registration Camp Staff Admin Staff Join Our Camp Staff Parent Resources Facilities Give to Mini Canes Camp Staff Join Camp Staff About Camp Registration Camp Staff Parent Resources Facilities Give to Mini Canes Home Administrative Staff AAA Administrative Staff Camp Staff Join Camp Staff Camp Staff is made up of energetic, well-qualified University of Miami professionals, Miami-Dade County teachers, and college students. Tom Soria Associate Director, Recreational Sports and Director of Camp 305-284-8518 tsoria@miami.edu Tom Soria received his bachelor’s degree in secondary education and his master’s degree in sports administration from Wichita State University. He has been a part of the Mini Canes camp staff since 2006 and has been the camp director since 2014. He is CPR/AED certified and is also a Registered Collegiate Recreational Sports Professional (RCRSP). Tom enjoys officiating sports, traveling, the beach, and is a proud father to his two boys. Merrissa Vault Assistant Director, Recreational Sports and Camp 305-284-1764 mvault@miami.edu Merrissa received her Bachelor’s degree in Physical Education at Eastern Kentucky University in 2016, where she also played Division I Soccer for four years. She later moved on to receive her Master of Science in Sport Management in 2018. Merrissa previously came from George Mason University where she served as the Competitive Sports and Camps Coordinator for Mason Recreation. As a sports enthusiast she is excited for her first year at Mini Canes Camp! Zac Bemmel Coordinator, Recreational Sports and Camp 305-284-2643 zbemmel@miami.edu Zac received his Bachelor’s degree in Exercise Science at Florida Atlantic University in 2015 and his Master’s degree in Recreation and Leisure Administration at University of Toledo. Zac came from the University of Cincinnati where he served as the Coordinator of Intramural Sports and Camps. Zac has worked with kid’s camps for 15 years and is excited to bring his experiences to Mini Canes Camp. Marena Gavilan Administrative Assistant and Camp Registration 305-284-8510 minicanescamp@miami.edu Marena Gavilan joined the Department of Wellness and Recreation in August 2007. She works directly with Dave and Tom assisting with club sports, intramurals, and camp. Marena has two sons and a daughter. She enjoys traveling, reading, music, and exercising. Marena is responsible for all camper registration and is very excited for another great summer. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Wellness Center 1241 Dickinson Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices