Menu Search Search Misconduct Hotline Process Local Reporting FAQ Submit a Report If you have a concern about misconduct, don’t keep it to yourself. Discuss it with a supervisor or contact the Misconduct Hotline. Welcome to Michigan State University’s Misconduct Hotline Michigan State University has implemented a telephone and web reporting Hotline to help maintain adherence to ethical practices. The purpose of the Hotline is to provide an anonymous method to report known or suspected misconduct for Michigan State University related to fiscal matters, conflicts of interest, employment, medical/HIPAA, research, safety, athletics, discrimination/harassment, hazing, privacy, retaliation, or any other area of legal, policy, or ethical concern not specifically listed. The expanded Misconduct Hotline does not replace the University Reporting Protocols regarding child abuse, sexual assault or child pornography. While such issues may be referred to the Misconduct Hotline, employees are also required to follow the reporting protocols. The reporting protocols are available at the Human Resources website. The University prohibits retaliation against any individual who makes a report in good faith of known or suspected misconduct. Areas to Report You can report misconduct in the areas listed below or any other compliance issues that do not fit into an existing area. Athletics Conflicts of Interest Discrimination and Harassment Employment Fiscal Misconduct Hazing Medical and HIPAA Privacy Research Retaliation Safety Descriptions of Misconduct Codes Online Hotline Visits to the reporting website are not tracked. You can choose to provide your name or remain anonymous. Submit a report online » Phone Hotline Anonymous calls can be made 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Dial (800) 763-0764 The Misconduct Hotline is not for reporting emergencies. If you need immediate assistance, please dial 9-1-1 (517) 355-5030 Contact Information Site Map Privacy Statement Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Notice of Nondiscrimination Spartans Will. © Michigan State University