Skip to navigation Skip to content Find Info For... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Apply Visit Give about academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics Apply Visit Give Search About Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics My Mizzou COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Find info for... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni About Mizzou Push the boundaries of what’s possible Our Values What Makes a Tiger Respect We commit to acting ethically, welcoming difference and exchanging ideas openly. Responsibility We are accountable to ourselves, each other and the public we serve. Discovery We foster the lifelong process of seeking knowledge and greater understanding. Excellence We reach for excellence through diligent effort and collaboration. Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct is a resource designed to support us in doing all we can to live up to the promise of our mission, vision, and values. Respect for others, responsibility, discovery, and excellence are the values at the heart of our new Code. This foundation has enabled us to do great things for our students, patients, the citizens of Missouri, and beyond. They can also help us evolve to meet the challenges of tomorrow. Learn more about how we work together to uphold the university mission and achieve excellence with our Code of Conduct. Read the Code of Conduct History & Tradition Our Story Since 1839 History Since 1839, groundbreaking research and comprehensive academics have defined our story. Our History Traditions From Homecoming to Tiger Walk, Black and Gold to Truman the Tiger, our traditions unite us through generations. Our Traditions Strength in Numbers Show Me the Facts 31,121 Students from all 50 states and over 100 countries $166M+ Spent on scholarships and gifts during the 2020-21 academic year 48% Of Mizzou students graduate with no debt See More Facts Life at Mizzou About Columbia What to do, where to stay, what to eat — learn what our home in the heart of Missouri has to offer. Explore Columbia Our Dedicated Leaders Get to know the passionate, innovative leaders of our Mizzou family. View Leadership Meet Mizzou Looking for a vibrant community offering endless opportunities to learn and grow? It’s always a great time to be a Tiger. Try an online campus tour or schedule a virtual chat with current students to discover why you’ll love MU. Online Tour & Chat Apply Today Contact Mizzou ADMISSIONS 230 Jesse Hall | Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-7786 Contact, Ask a Question or Request Information Find info for Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Explore Degree Programs Libraries Careers The Mizzou Store Quick Links News Events Directory MU Health MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. Map & Directions Parking Online Tour Support Mizzou Mission & Values Emergency Info © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy Report a problem or submit feedback about this website.