Skip to navigation Skip to content Find Info For... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Apply Visit Give about academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics Apply Visit Give Search About Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics My Mizzou COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Find info for... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Student Life Live. Play. Learn. Mizzou Life Live Like a Tiger Attending classes is just part of the full student experience at Mizzou. Discover what life at Mizzou has to offer. Get Involved Housing & Dining Make Mizzou Your Home Housing Residential Life offers a variety of affordable living and learning communities to help you feel at home. Housing Options Dining All-you-care-to-eat residential dining, restaurants, cafés, markets and dining plans make eating on campus affordable and convenient. Dining Options Health & Safety Live Well, Be Well Health & Well-Being When you want to feel better, the Student Health Center, Counseling Center and Wellness Resource Center can help. Student Health & Well-Being MizzouRec Working out has never been so fun at our award-winning MizzouRec facility. And when you’re done, don’t forget to relax in the Tiger Grotto pool. MizzouRec MU Police Safety is a top priority. Report a problem, request help, or register your laptop, bike or phone. MU Police Department Diversity & Inclusion The Division of Inclusion, Diversity & Equity helps support a campus community where you can live, learn and work to your full potential. Resource Centers Educational Programs Access & Support Accessibility Is Here Disability Center The Disability Center coordinates accommodations that help students engage in the campus experience. Disability Center International Center The International Center supports MU’s international community and Mizzou students studying abroad. International Center Veterans Center The MU Veterans Center provides easy-to-access support to veterans at Mizzou. Veterans Center Life at Mizzou About Columbia What to do, where to stay, what to eat — learn what our home in the heart of Missouri has to offer. Explore Columbia Contact Mizzou ADMISSIONS 230 Jesse Hall | Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-7786 Contact, Ask a Question or Request Information Find info for Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Explore Degree Programs Libraries Careers The Mizzou Store Quick Links News Events Directory MU Health MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. Map & Directions Parking Online Tour Support Mizzou Mission & Values Emergency Info © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy Report a problem or submit feedback about this website.