Skip to navigation Skip to content Find Info For... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Apply Visit Give about academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics Apply Visit Give Search About Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics My Mizzou COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Find info for... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Student Life What is Mizzou life? We can show you. Housing & Dining Make Mizzou Your Home A thriving community Residential Life provides more than places to sleep and study. Caring staff members and exclusive programs help you live, learn and thrive at Mizzou. Housing Fueling what’s possible Campus Dining Services nourishes your Mizzou spirit and strives to meet your dietary preferences or needs. Dining Engagement & Activities Discover opportunities Get involved Involvement Ambassadors are ready to help you find your niche at Mizzou. Engagement Stuff to Do The Campus Activities Programming Board is your source for stuff to do at Mizzou. Activities Resources & Support Columns of strength Health & Well-Being Student Health & Well-being cares for you holistically with a collaborative approach to well-being, including medical care, counseling and education. Health & Well-Being MizzouRec MizzouRec is where you work out or wind down. There’s a place for you here, whether a beginner or an Olympic athlete. MizzouRec Care Team The Care Team helps ensure you don’t have to tackle things alone when significant unexpected challenges arise. Care Team Student Success Where People Meet Possibilities Disability Center The Disability Center works with you to remove barriers and ensure equal access to the Mizzou student experience. Disability Center International Center The International Center connects Mizzou to the globe by helping you study abroad or adjust to a new life in Missouri. International Center Veterans Center The MU Veterans Center provides a seamless approach to helping student veterans from admission to graduation. Veterans Center What makes a Tiger? Your time at Mizzou will set the tone for all that follows. As Tigers, we hold four core values: Respect, Responsibility, Discovery, Excellence. We hold ourselves and our community accountable. We act ethically, welcome difference and engage ideas openly. Institutional Equity Accountability & Support MU Police Living in Columbia, MO Mizzou's hometown The city of Columbia attracts people from around Missouri and the world. You’ll see why it is consistently recognized among the best places to live. Living in Columbia Contact Mizzou ADMISSIONS 230 Jesse Hall | Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-7786 Contact, Ask a Question or Request Information Find info for Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Explore Degree Programs Libraries Careers The Mizzou Store Quick Links News Events Directory MU Health MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. Map & Directions Parking Online Tour Support Mizzou Mission & Values Emergency Info © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy Report a problem or submit feedback about this website.