Skip to navigation Skip to content Find Info For... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Apply Visit Give about academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics Apply Visit Give Search About Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics My Mizzou COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Find info for... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Nondiscrimination Policy Home Nondiscrimination Policy The University of Missouri does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, national origin, ancestry, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, age, disability or status as a protected veteran. Discrimination on the basis of pregnancy, childbirth or related medical conditions is also prohibited. The university’s nondiscrimination policy applies to all phases of its employment process, its admission and financial aid programs and to all other aspects of its educational programs and activities. Further, this policy applies to sexual violence and sexual harassment (forms of sex discrimination) occurring both within and outside of the university context if the conduct negatively affects the individual’s educational or work experience or the overall campus environment. Retaliation directed to any person who pursues a discrimination complaint or grievance, participates in a discrimination investigation or otherwise opposes unlawful discrimination is prohibited. In addition, MU does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. Any person having inquiries concerning the University of Missouri’s application of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 or other civil rights laws should contact one of the following: Affirmative Action and Equal Employment Opportunity Veronica Schultz Director II, Employee & Labor Relations Center of Expertise (COE) Office of Human Resources 321 University Hall 1100 Carrie Franke Drive Columbia, MO 65211 573-884-2577 schultzv@umsystem.edu University of Missouri Office of Institutional Equity Andy Hayes Assistant Vice Chancellor and Title IX Administrator 202 Jesse Hall Columbia, MO 65211 573-882-2824 Visit us in-person or online: Office of Institutional Equity 145 Heinkel Columbia, MO 65211 Main Office Hours: Monday-Friday, 8:00 a.m.-5:00 p.m. and by appointment For information on how to report discrimination or harassment, including sexual harassment and sexual misconduct, as well as expressions of perceived bias and violations of the right to free expression, visit Making a Report. Visit Know Your Rights by the Office for Civil Rights, U.S. Department of Education, for information on the federal civil rights laws enforced by OCR that prohibit discrimination in programs or activities that receive federal funds from the Department of Education. Related Resources Human Resource Services Division of Inclusion, Diversity & Equity Office of Institutional Equity ADA Coordinator Contact Mizzou ADMISSIONS 230 Jesse Hall | Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-7786 Contact, Ask a Question or Request Information Find info for Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Explore Degree Programs Libraries Careers The Mizzou Store Quick Links News Events Directory MU Health MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. Map & Directions Parking Online Tour Support Mizzou Mission & Values Emergency Info © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy Report a problem or submit feedback about this website.