Skip to navigation Skip to content Find Info For... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Apply Visit Give about academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics Apply Visit Give Search About Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics My Mizzou COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Find info for... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni For Faculty & Staff Home For Faculty & Staff Email myHR Canvas Employee Resources Human Resource Services Total Rewards Benefits Administrative Web Applications DoIT Information Technology Parking & Transportation Facilities Service Requests Teaching for Learning Center Course Design & Technology Library myVITA Integrity & Accountability Hotline Report Concerns About a Student Faculty & Staff Representation Working for You Faculty Council With members representing faculty from across MU, this group works to develop academic policies and promote faculty interests. Faculty Council Staff Advisory Council Representing staff from across campus, members work with MU leadership on staff concerns and interests. Staff Advisory Council CODE OF CONDUCT Our Code of Conduct is a resource designed to support us in doing all we can to live up to the promise of our mission, vision, and values. Respect for others, responsibility, discovery, and excellence are the values at the heart of our new Code. This foundation has enabled us to do great things for our students, patients, the citizens of Missouri, and beyond. They can also help us evolve to meet the challenges of tomorrow. Learn more about how we work together to uphold the university mission and achieve excellence with our Code of Conduct. Read the code of conduct Contact Mizzou ADMISSIONS 230 Jesse Hall | Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-7786 Contact, Ask a Question or Request Information Find info for Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Explore Degree Programs Libraries Careers The Mizzou Store Quick Links News Events Directory MU Health MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. Map & Directions Parking Online Tour Support Mizzou Mission & Values Emergency Info © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy Report a problem or submit feedback about this website.