Skip to navigation Skip to content Find Info For... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Apply Visit Give about academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics Apply Visit Give Search About Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics My Mizzou COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Find info for... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Research Collaboration, discovery and innovation Driving Innovation & the Economy Show Me Results $389M Total research expenditures submitted to NSF for FY21 100 Average annual new invention disclosures $5B Impact on Missouri’s economy Research, Innovation and Impact Research Support We improve people’s lives and grow Missouri’s economy by putting our research to work for the greater good. Research Support Student Research Take Your Curiosity to the Next Level Undergraduate Research Our undergraduate research programs help students explore science, humanities and arts through hands-on work with faculty. Undergraduate Research Graduate Research Our graduate programs offer diverse, collaborative environments that appeal to all students. Graduate Research Sharing Resources Core Facilities, Centers & Institutes Being home to the most powerful university research reactor in the country isn’t all we have to brag about. Advanced Technology Cores Centers & Institutes Mizzou Made Launch Your Ideas Tech Advancement Working with inventors, companies and entrepreneurs to bring research innovations to the marketplace. Technology Advancement Entrepreneurship Programs, coaching and resources to turn ideas for new products, services and businesses into reality. Innovation & Entrepreneurship Industry Engagement Matching the business interests and needs of corporate partners with MU expertise, innovations and talent. Industry Partnerships Contact Mizzou ADMISSIONS 230 Jesse Hall | Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-7786 Contact, Ask a Question or Request Information Find info for Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Explore Degree Programs Libraries Careers The Mizzou Store Quick Links News Events Directory MU Health MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. Map & Directions Parking Online Tour Support Mizzou Mission & Values Emergency Info © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy Report a problem or submit feedback about this website.