Skip to navigation Skip to content Find Info For... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Apply Visit Give about academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics Apply Visit Give Search About Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics My Mizzou COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Find info for... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Outreach & Impact Our campus is Missouri and beyond. Extension & Engagement Bringing the University to You Extension MU Extension brings the latest research and knowledge directly to you and your community so that together we can solve critical problems and improve lives. MU Extension Engagement From supporting families, business owners and farmers to training fire fighters, police and health care providers, we’re in your community. Community Connect Serving Communities Better Lives, Brighter Futures $1.2 Billion MU Extension's economic impact on Missouri 1 Million+ Annual number of Missourians Extension serves through education, health care and more 40+ Number of countries around the world with MU programs, exchanges and partnerships All Things Missouri Driving Change Through Data Your gateway for interactive mapping, reports and insights into the issues facing Missourians. Visit All Things Missouri Mizzou Academy For students around the world, Mizzou Academy has a lot to offer. Take a single course or work towards a high school diploma with pre-approved admission to Mizzou after you graduate. Mizzou Academy Service Opportunities Make a Difference Service-Learning Be part of a community partnership to provide effective and far-reaching assistance. Office of Service-Learning Mizzou Alternative Breaks In the U.S. or abroad, spend your weekends or semester breaks serving communities in need. Mizzou Alternative Breaks Contact Mizzou ADMISSIONS 230 Jesse Hall | Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-7786 Contact, Ask a Question or Request Information Find info for Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Explore Degree Programs Libraries Careers The Mizzou Store Quick Links News Events Directory MU Health MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. Map & Directions Parking Online Tour Support Mizzou Mission & Values Emergency Info © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy Report a problem or submit feedback about this website.