Skip to navigation Skip to content Find Info For... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Apply Visit Give about academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics Apply Visit Give Search About Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics My Mizzou COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Find info for... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Our Alumni Home about facts Our Alumni You'll Be in Great Company With a global network of more than 344,000+ alumni working in every profession, you can look forward to mentoring opportunities from the best in the business. See what some of our newest alumni say about their experiences at Mizzou. Previous Next Lauren Lanter, BS '18, Parks Recreation and Tourism “Any school can teach students valuable lessons in the classroom, and Mizzou does a fabulous job of that, but Mizzou also offers a one-of-a-kind experience out of the classroom. Had I not pushed myself out of my comfort zone and gotten involved, I would not have had the confidence to [pursue a career with the Kansas City Chiefs], let alone learn leadership, interpersonal and 'real-world' skills that employers are looking for.” Anthony Greer, BA ‘18 - Multicultural Studies, Digital Global Studies Certificate My time at Mizzou contributed to my preparation for being able to fit into nearly any industry. After realizing that one specific major didn’t fit my collection of interests, I took a leap of faith to shape my degree path. With the people and the opportunities I was exposed to, I believe I made the right decision and the time spent at Mizzou was well worth it. Katie Yaeger, BJ ’15, News Editing and MA ’17, Strategic Communication "Mizzou is an amazing place to learn. There are so many opportunities to take advantage of. Every day on the product content strategy team at Facebook, I use skills I learned at the Missouri School of Journalism: writing, editing, researching, designing and critical thinking." Kyle Holtzman, BS BA '16, Marketing "I think what makes Mizzou great is that it focuses on cultivating experiences that can and will be directly transferable to your career and profession. When I was interviewing at companies for my first job after college, all of the companies were impressed by the level of exposure I had to their related industry. Mizzou equipped me with the correct resources so I was able to successfully navigate these conversations and make a lasting impact." Cece Bolin, BS '17, Hospitality Management "I’m tasked with coordinating and executing outside user events at the U.S. Olympic Training Center in Colorado Springs every day. Fortunately, the University of Missouri had opportunities for me to get involved across campus where I could gain hands-on event experience before I was tasked with doing it for a living. The faculty and staff at Mizzou wanted nothing more than for me to succeed in life so they entrusted me with tasks where I'd have to step out of my comfort zone so I could learn from each step." Nnamdi Okoli, BS BA ’19 - Business Marketing My Mizzou experience was filled with ups and downs, challenges and successes but through all of those I learned that what I see in front of me isn’t always permanent and that if you just keep moving eventually you will make your way to something better. Gretchen Metzger, BS BA ’19 - Business Marketing Mizzou is so rare in that it has such a great combination of meaningful traditions and a tight knit community, but also endless opportunity for involvement and learning. Mizzou has a variety of classes, majors, organizations, and volunteering that allow your path to change and grow as you learn what you love to do and invest time in. Plus, the school spirit is unmatched. Fight Tiger! Billy Donley, BA ’18 - Communication Mizzou equipped me with not only a supportive community but provided me with opportunities that helped me develop confidence in myself as a professional and person. Through involvement, I was able to strengthen my communication and relationship-building skills, which have allowed me to be successful in my career and make meaningful connections with others. Notable Alumni From astronauts to actors, Mizzou alumni are doing big things. See Notable Alumni Contact Mizzou ADMISSIONS 230 Jesse Hall | Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-7786 Contact, Ask a Question or Request Information Find info for Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Explore Degree Programs Libraries Careers The Mizzou Store Quick Links News Events Directory MU Health MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. Map & Directions Parking Online Tour Support Mizzou Mission & Values Emergency Info © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy Report a problem or submit feedback about this website.