Skip to navigation Skip to content Find Info For... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Apply Visit Give about academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics Apply Visit Give Search About Academics Admissions & Aid Student Life Research Outreach & Impact Athletics My Mizzou COVID-19 Updates Mizzou A-Z MU Alert Directory News Events Map Find info for... Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Visit Imagine the ideal college campus movie set. Yeah, that’s us. See for yourself. Tour Campus Incoming Freshmen & Transfer Students Graduate Students 8-12th Grade Groups MU Departments General Public Online Tour Visitor Guide About Columbia What to eat, where to stay, what to do. Find out more about the city we love to call home. Explore Columbia Visitor Relations We're Here to Help Answers to Your Questions Visiting campus and have questions about tour options or services? Contact Visitor Relations Services for Campus Units If you are hosting campus visitors and would like to schedule a tour or order materials for your guests, we can help. Order MaterialsTours for Department Visitors Contact Mizzou ADMISSIONS 230 Jesse Hall | Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-7786 Contact, Ask a Question or Request Information Find info for Students Faculty & Staff Families Alumni Explore Degree Programs Libraries Careers The Mizzou Store Quick Links News Events Directory MU Health MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. Map & Directions Parking Online Tour Support Mizzou Mission & Values Emergency Info © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy Report a problem or submit feedback about this website.