Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology ML@GT Menu Close Home About The Center Awards Best Papers Faculty Awards The Agency People Leadership Faculty ML Ph.D. Program Faculty Faculty Internal Advisory Council Faculty Openings Research ML@GT Labs News & Events Seminars ML Ph.D. Student Seminars NLP and AI Seminars ML@GT at Conferences Blog PhD Program Admissions Prospective Students Ph.D. Program Faculty Curriculum Curriculum Core Reading Groups and ML Courses Electives Ph.D. Dissertation Student Resources Program FAQ ML Fellowship Program Fellowship Opportunities Contact Jobs Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Twitter Facebook Instagram Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Home Contact Where We Are The Machine Learning Center is located in Atlanta, Ga. on Georgia Tech's campus. We are currently located on the 11th floor of Coda at Tech Square. College of Computing Mailing address: 756 West Peachtree Street, 12E Atlanta, GA 30308 We are located on the 11th floor of Coda. Please note the shipping address above for mailed correspondence. Map and Directions to Coda | Map to Visitor Parking Visitors to the Coda Building should park in the Georgia Tech Hotel/Global Learning Center Deck (directly in front of Coda), 800 Spring Street NW. The cost is $18/day for unlimited in/out access. Exit the parking deck on the ground level and walk straight to the Coda Building across the street. The entrance for the building will be located on your right. Connect With Us The Machine Learning Center is active on Twitter, Instagram, YouTube, and Facebook. Twitter Instagram Facebook YouTube Blog Subscribe to our newsletter For press inquiries, contact Allie McFadden at allie.mcfadden@cc.gatech.edu Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Report A Problem Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology