LogDB Search Data Plot Data ODP/IODP Timeline Data Processing Seismic-logs Integration Sonic (re)processing Technology Areas of Research Research by current and former staff: gas hydrate, carbon sequestration, local drilling projects,… USSSP US Science Support OMO Office of Marine Operations STEMSEAS Science, Technology, Engineering and Math Student Experiences Aboard Ships LogDB Search Data Plot Data ODP/IODP Timeline Data Processing Seismic-logs Integration Sonic (re)processing Technology Areas of Research Research by current and former staff: gas hydrate, carbon sequestration, local drilling projects,… USSSP US Science Support OMO Office of Marine Operations STEMSEAS Science, Technology, Engineering and Math Student Experiences Aboard Ships All ABOARD GEO Project Welcome to Alliance-Building Offshore to Achieve Resilience and Diversity (All-ABOARD) All-ABOARD is a new NSF project that seeks to build on the power of off-shore experiences and successful professional development models to provide inter-generational teams of geoscience leaders with the tools they need to advance the goals of diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) on their home campuses. This project operates under the hypothesis that investing focused effort on intergenerational teams in the unique context of a ship/shore workshop with sustained support will lead to a crucible in which potential DEI leaders are recruited and retained, their leadership qualities nurtured, empowered and made resilient, institutional barriers are identified and addressed, and collective impact is maximized. A project team consists of 4 members, distributed among different career levels within the institution (e.g., a graduate student, a post-doc, a tenured faculty member and a department chair or dean). The project consists of 4 components: a series of interactive team webinars in Spring 2021 an intensive and unique 6-7 day professional development workshop, half of which will take place on board a research vessel operated by the U.S. Academic Fleet follow-up work to implement DEI projects developed prior to and during the workshop, including campus visits to all team institutions on-going support through webinars and individual consultations ————————————————————————————————— We thank all of our applicants for 2021 and are pleased and excited to announce our 2021 ALL-ABOARD teams: An article about this project appeared in the Columbia Climate School blog on May 6, 2021! ————————————————————————————————— Our model: A one-page information sheet is available here. The application deadline for 2021 has passed. A webinar for potential applicants was held January 15. The slides from the webinar are available for viewing here. Contact us with any questions (allaboardgeo@gmail.com). If accepted into All-ABOARD, travel expenses to the professional development workshop and all campus visits will be covered by the program. Individual institutional project costs are expected to come from that institution. Project Personnel Sharon Katz Cooper, Project PI (LDEO); scooper@ldeo.columbia.edu Benjamin Keisling, Project Co-PI (LDEO): keisling@ldeo.columbia.edu Raquel Bryant, Project Co-PI (TAMU): raquel@tamu.edu Brian Chad Starks, Assessment Leader, BCS & Associates: bchad@bcsandassociates.com Project Advisors Lisa White, University of California Museum of Paleontology Jonathan Lewis, Indiana University of Pennsylvania Kuheli Dutt, LDEO This work is supported by NSF Grant #2035093.