LogDB Search Data Plot Data ODP/IODP Timeline Data Processing Seismic-logs Integration Sonic (re)processing Technology Areas of Research Research by current and former staff: gas hydrate, carbon sequestration, local drilling projects,… USSSP US Science Support OMO Office of Marine Operations STEMSEAS Science, Technology, Engineering and Math Student Experiences Aboard Ships LogDB Search Data Plot Data ODP/IODP Timeline Data Processing Seismic-logs Integration Sonic (re)processing Technology Areas of Research Research by current and former staff: gas hydrate, carbon sequestration, local drilling projects,… USSSP US Science Support OMO Office of Marine Operations STEMSEAS Science, Technology, Engineering and Math Student Experiences Aboard Ships Co-Location of Air Capture and Subseafloor CO2 Sequestration David S. Goldberg, Klaus S. Lackner, Patrick Han, Angela S. Slagle and Tao Wang Reducing atmospheric CO2 using a combination of air capture and offshore geological storage can address technical and policy concerns with climate mitigation. Because CO2 mixes rapidly in the atmosphere, air capture could operate anywhere and in principle reduce CO2 to preindustrial levels. We investigate the Kerguelen Plateau in the Indian Ocean, which offers steady wind resources, vast subseafloor storage capacities, and minimal risk of economic damages or human inconvenience and harm. The efficiency of humidity swing driven air capture under humid and windy conditions is tested in the laboratory. Powered by wind, we estimate ~75 Mt CO2/yr could be collected using air capture and sequestered below seafloor or partially used for synfuel. Our analysis suggests that Kerguelen offers a remote and environmentally secure location for CO2 sequestration using renewable energy. Regional reservoirs could hold over 1500 Gt CO2, sequestering a large fraction of 21st century emissions. Map of Kerguelen Plateau in the southern Indian Ocean, with seafloor bathymetry and location of drill sites. Schematic of potential wind energy resource use on Kerguelen. With ambient air capture, sufficient energy could be collected to sequester 75 Mt of CO2 or more in subseafloor basalt reservoirs or produce ~770 million gal of diesel fuel annually using electrolysis and Fischer-Tropsch processes [Goldberg et al. (2013), Environ. Sci. Technol. 47(13)]. Related links: Air Capture Program at the Lenfest Center for Sustainable Energy Select Publications: Goldberg D.S., Lackner K.S., Han P., Slagle A.L. and Wang T. Co-location of air capture, subseafloor CO2sequestration, and energy production on the Kerguelen Plateau. Environ. Sci. Technol., 2013, 47(13): 7521-9.