LogDB Search Data Plot Data ODP/IODP Timeline Data Processing Seismic-logs Integration Sonic (re)processing Technology Areas of Research Research by current and former staff: gas hydrate, carbon sequestration, local drilling projects,… USSSP US Science Support OMO Office of Marine Operations STEMSEAS Science, Technology, Engineering and Math Student Experiences Aboard Ships LogDB Search Data Plot Data ODP/IODP Timeline Data Processing Seismic-logs Integration Sonic (re)processing Technology Areas of Research Research by current and former staff: gas hydrate, carbon sequestration, local drilling projects,… USSSP US Science Support OMO Office of Marine Operations STEMSEAS Science, Technology, Engineering and Math Student Experiences Aboard Ships Carbon Sequestration in Deep-Sea Basalt David S. Goldberg, Angela S. Slagle and Taro Takahashi Developing a method for secure sequestration of anthropogenic carbon dioxide in geological formations is one of our most pressing global scientific problems. Injection into deep-sea basalt formations provides unique and significant advantages over other potential geological storage options, including: (i) vast reservoir capacities sufficient to accommodate centuries-long U.S. production of fossil fuel CO2 at locations within pipeline distances to populated areas and CO2 sources along the U.S. coast; (ii) sufficiently closed water-rock circulation pathways for the chemical reaction of CO2 with basalt to produce stable and nontoxic (Ca2+, Mg2+ Fe2+)CO3 infilling minerals; and (iii) significant risk reduction for post-injection leakage by geological, gravitational, and hydrate-trapping mechanisms. In particular, CO2 sequestration in established sediment-covered basalt aquifers on the Juan de Fuca plate offer promising locations to securely accommodate more than a century of future U.S. emissions, warranting energized scientific research, technological assessment, and economic evaluation to establish a viable pilot injection program in the future. Sites investigated for potential deep-sea carbon sequestration (MAR = Mid-Atlantic Ridge; EPR = East Pacific Rise; SWIR = Southwest Indian Ridge.) [Goldberg & Slagle (2009), Energy Procedia 1(1)] Deep-sea basalt region for CO2 sequestration on Juan de Fuca plate. Red outline shows the region where water depths are ≥2,700 m and sediment thickness is ≥200 m, covering an area of 78,000 km2. Hatched region shows the decrease in area having ≥300 m sediment cover, resulting in a total area of 68,000 km2. Heavy black line indicates the location of a single-channel seismic profile through potential CO2 injection zones (R/V Conrad line 1501, Inset Top Left). [Goldberg, D. S., T. Takahashi, & A. L. Slagle (2008), PNAS 105(29)] Related links: Project overview Video presentation Select Publications: Slagle, A. L., and D. S. Goldberg (2011), Evaluation of ocean crustal sites 1256 and 504 for long-term CO2sequestration, Geophysical Research Letters 38(16). Goldberg, D. S., and A. L. Slagle (2009), A global assessment of deep-sea basalt sites for carbon sequestration, Energy Procedia 1(1): 3675-3682. Goldberg, D. S., T. Takahashi, and A. L. Slagle (2008), Carbon dioxide sequestration in deep-sea basalt, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 105(29): 9920-9925.