Sites at Penn State Log In Search Home Features Events iMessage Stickers Communication Marketing Communication More Apps Privacy News Contact Select Page Learn More Learn More App Features Penn State Go gives you single sign-in access to these popular features and special events LionPATH Check grades, pay tuition bills, and more. Canvas Students can access Canvas courses on-the-go and in class. Email Check your Penn State Email account. Maps Discover Penn State points of interest, including Remote Learning Rooms, and much more. LionCash+ Manage on-and off-campus purchases. Safety Learn more about emergency services and the ways Penn State fosters a safe campus. Academic Calendar Stay in touch with upcoming events happening at Penn State. Starfish Connect with an academic advisor. Shuttle Live, up-to-date information on all Penn State and CATA shuttle routes. Dining View on-campus dining options, hours, and dining hall menus. Events Stay in touch with upcoming events happening at Penn State. Accounts Access your account settings and services offered by Penn State. Notifications Sign-up to receive push notificaitons from the PSU Alert system. Library View library catalogs and available resources. Athletics News, schedules, results, and social feeds to keep you in the game. Directory Information about students, faculty, and staff at Penn State. News Stay up-to-date on what’s happening on and around campus with the latest news. Helpdesk Get technical support for World Campus. You@PSU Connect to campus information, resources, and tools. IT Support Connect directly with a Penn State IT for all technical questions. Canvas Teacher Canvas access for Teachers. Canvas Beta Access Canvas Beta features within Penn State Go. Workday Apply to Penn State jobs and complete employee tasks. Help improve this app or report a problem We want to hear from you! Help us improve your user experience with Penn State Go. Feedback Support RSS Copyright 2022 © The Pennsylvania State University Privacy Non-Discrimination Equal Opportunity Accessibility Legal