Menu Search Search MSU Mobility About Campus Ecosystem Research Our Community Get Involved Events MSU Autonomous Bus We unveiled our new electric autonomous bus at a press conference on Nov. 5. more info Automated Vehicles Will Create A Shift In Workforce Demands Despite concerns that a rise in automated vehicles, or AVs, will displace significant numbers of truck drivers in the United States, only a modest number of truck driver jobs, if any, will be affected, according to a new report commissioned by the American Center for Mobility, led by Michigan State University and supported by Texas A&M Transportation Institute. Read More MSU Autonomous Bus Route, Schedule and Complete Details Students, faculty, staff and visitors can now ride the new electric autonomous bus on campus between the MSU Auditorium and the MSU Commuter Lot (#89) at the intersection of Farm Lane and Mt. Hope. The bus’s 2.5-mile route will run non-stop, roundtrip and is marked with bright green “autonomous bus stop” signage. Read More A Vision for Smarter Safer-Autonomous Vehicles Autonomous, or self-driving, vehicles have captured the imagination of the public, but many drivers are apprehensive about the prospect of letting go of the wheel. In fact, according to a recent poll from Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety, nearly two-thirds of the public are concerned about sharing the road with driverless cars, citing safety as a major worry. Read More Research Themes Biometrics Cybersecurity Mobility Management Data Fusion User Experience / Interface Sociomobility / Public policy About About Research Our Community Campus Ecosystem Get Involved Site Map Get in Touch Our Community Get Involved Related Links College of Agriculture and Natural Resources College of Communication Arts & Sciences College of Engineering College of Law College of Social Science Eli Broad College of Business James Madison College Contact Information Site Map Privacy Statement Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Notice of Nondiscrimination Spartans Will. © Michigan State University