Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site UMiami App UM Alumni App UHealth App Miami Hurricanes App UMiami App UM Alumni App UHealth App Miami Hurricanes App Search UMiami App UM Alumni App UHealth App Miami Hurricanes App UMiami App UM Alumni App UHealth App Miami Hurricanes App Home UMiami App AAA UMiami App The U, Wherever You Go With the UMiami mobile app, you can take The U whenever you're on the move. Whether you're a student or employee, you can quickly access campus news, information, and resources that are important to you — at anytime. Available on the Apple App Store and on Google Play. What's New in Version 5.0? New year, new look - the UMiami mobile app has been redesigned to provide a revamped, personal experience for all users. We're happy to introduce personas for new and returning students, and faculty and staff – providing a user-experience that is aligned with your life at UM. Additionally, this update includes a new visual design that provides news and social feeds immediately when you access the app, and access to other important resources and modules. Features Be a step ahead: Find shuttle routes and see when to expect the next ride Access campus maps to find buildings and departments Be in the know: Get the lowdown on campus happenings from from News@TheU and Life@TheU directly in the app See and share the latest videos of campus events and features Get social with live feeds from campus accounts and photos of the week Plan your week with upcoming events on campus Find what you need: Find people with the directory search Hungry? Grab a bite by exploring on campus dining locations See your grades or your pay stub with access to Blackboard, Workday, and more Now Available: UMiami Mobile App Location-based Notifications and Messages As part of the University of Miami's response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the UMiami mobile app now supports a new opt-in feature to send those who use the app on campus essential messages and updates relative to their location, including reminders to take the University's daily symptom checker. For more information, review frequently asked questions (FAQs) below. Open All Tabs How will these notifications be used? These notifications will only be used to alert you of information relevant to your location on campus, including messages about safety, changes on campus, important reminders, events, and more. An example location-based notification from the UMiami mobile app. How do I enable the location-based notification feature? This feature is enabled by giving the UMiami mobile app access to your location as Always or While Using the App. Your location information is not shared or stored. (Click the following links to learn how to turn on or off location services within your mobile device: iOS (iPhone/iPad) or Android.) Examples of enabling location-based notifications for the UMiami mobile app from iOS or Android. Is the UMiami mobile app or the University of Miami saving or sharing location data? No. The UMiami mobile app does not store or share your location information. Periodically, the UMiami mobile app will request your location to verify if you are on a University of Miami campus. This location is not stored, shared, or tracked continuously. If you are within a specific area of a University of Miami campus, a notification is shown on your mobile device. Example of the UMiami mobile app periodically checking an app user's location on iOS. Are location-based notifications required to use the UMiami mobile app? No. Location-based notifications are opt-in. You do not have to agree to give the UMiami mobile app access to device location or turn on location access in iOS or Android settings. Is the UMiami mobile app being used for contact tracing? No. The UMiami mobile app is not used for contact tracing. The University's approach to contract tracing is based on traditional contact tracing methods and does not use the UMiami app in any way. Questions? Concerns? Feedback? If you would like to share your feedback or suggest features, click here. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Academic Technologies Coral Gables, FL 33124 Questions About This Site 305-284-6440 Questions About This Site 305-284-6440 m.bonanno@miami.edu Resources About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices