Skip to main content School of Modern Languages Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Main Menu About Welcome From the Chair Who We Are and What We Believe In Strategic Plan Directions and Contact Information Programs Graduate Degrees M.S. Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies (ALIS) B.S./M.S. Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies (5 years) M.S. Global Media and Cultures (GMC) Ph.D. Minors Undergraduate Degrees B.S. Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies (ALIS) ALIS as a Double Major B.S./M.S. Applied Languages and Intercultural Studies (5 years) B.S. Global Economics and Modern Languages (GEML) B.S. International Affairs and Modern Languages (IAML) Minors and Certificates Minor in African Studies Minor in East Asian Studies Minor in International Business, Language, and Culture Minors in Language Studies Minor in Latin American and LatinX Studies Minor in Linguistics Minor in Middle Eastern & North African Studies Certificates in Language Studies Certificate in Linguistics Student Resources Advisement Registration Placement Tests Transfer Credit AP and IB Credit Internships Certificate Request Permits and Overloads Student Survey Advanced Standing Languages Overview Arabic Chinese French German Japanese Korean Russian Spanish Linguistics Study Abroad / LBAT Overview Arabic Immersion Program in Morocco (Arabic) LBAT China (Chinese) LBAT France (French) Serve-Learn-Sustain in France (French) LBAT Senegal (French) LBAT Germany (German) Early Immersion: German in Vienna LBAT Japan (Japanese) LBAT Korea (Korean) LBAT Russia (Russian) Spring Track Intensive (Russian) LBAT Barcelona (Spanish) LBAT Ecuador / Galapagos (Spanish) LBAT Mexico City (Spanish) LBAT Peru (Spanish) LBAT Puerto Rico (Spanish) LBAT Spain (Spanish) Visit & Live It: Summer Program in Spain (Spanish) Serve-Learn-Sustain in Spain (Spanish) Latin America Today (Global at Home Program) Study Abroad Student Testimonials Study Abroad Scholarships FLAS Fellowships Campoamor Scholarship Project GO Chinese Government Full Scholarships Georgia Tech - St. Petersburg State University Scholarships Global Internship and Work Abroad Research Faculty Expertise Featured Research Publications People Faculty Staff Graduate Students Student Awards Alumni Award Winners Class of 2022 Modern Languages Student Advisory Committee News and Events Faculty Resources Global Media Fest Apply Give Visit Search Search Search Site Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Change the Conversation: Cross-Cultural Expertise for Global Leadership Welcome Sixth Annual Global Media Festival Showcases Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions Thompson Awarded 2022 Distinguished Alumni Award Students Recognized for Excellence Quick Links Blurb / Gallery Set Mission and Vision Faculty Research Study Abroad Undergraduate Programs Graduate Programs News & Events Faculty Highlight Yi-Hsien Stephanie Ho "I love teaching beginners and enjoy leading the learners to experience a new culture and language." Student Highlight Jonas Chan "Learning a language truly opens your eyes to a different perspective. The ability to speak to someone else in a different language is so rewarding." Alumni Highlight Abby Garland "Studying abroad with the French LBAT program was one of the coolest experiences throughout my time at GT and definitely one of the best things for my language skills." Staff Highlight Nicholas Platt "Take advantage of the Language for Business and Technology (LBAT) programs that Modern Languages offers. Nothing can replace traveling and experiencing other cultures." Recent News Ivan Allen College Instructors Named to 2022 CIOS Honor Roll Twenty-three instructors across all six Ivan Allen College schools have been named to the Student Recognition of Excellence in Teaching: … Sixth Annual Global Media Festival Showcases Peace, Justice, and Strong Institutions The events featured three celebrated filmmakers and nine languages across 11 countries. More than 250 people from Atlanta and abroad … Chang Authors Chapter on Live, Virtual Language Teaching The chapter addresses the benefits and challenges of teaching a foreign language in a synchronous online class. Undergraduate Named AATG-Georgia College Student of the Year Christopher Ballenger, a third-year computer science major with a minor in German, received the 2022 College Student of the Year Award. Alumni Honor Retired German Professor With Scholarship The Dr. Bettina E. Cothran Scholarship will provide funding for engineering students who wish to participate in the German LBAT program but … See More News Upcoming Events Sorry, no upcoming events found. School of Modern Languages at Georgia Tech Facebook Instagram Twitter LinkedIn School of Modern Languages Swann Building 613 Cherry Street Atlanta, GA 30332-0375 Phone: 404-894-7327 Map and Directions Website Feedback Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts School Resources Permits and Overloads College of Liberal Arts Resources Office of the Dean College Leadership College At a Glance Visit the College of Liberal Arts Faculty / Staff Resources Georgia Tech Resources Campus Offices Visitor Parking News Center Campus Calendar Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation ©2022 Georgia Institute of Technology