Skip to main content Florida State University | College of Fine Arts PROGRAMS Department of Art Department of Art Education Department of Art History Department of Interior Architecture and Design School of Dance School of Theatre Museum of Fine Arts Facility for Arts Research FSU/Asolo Conservatory for Actor Training Maggie Allesee National Center for Choreography EVENTS NEWS TICKETS APPLY GIVE This is your Donation message. Log In Submit Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Alumni and Friends Veterans Toggle navigation Visit Visitor Information Contact College Map About History Faculty and Staff About the College Events Upcoming Events and Lectures College of Fine Arts Events News Exhibitions Recent Exhibitions Upcoming Exhibitions Currently at MoFA MoFA at Home Make it with MoFA Art Walks Mini Masterpieces Home Work Student Voices Learn Collections Tours Object Guides Copyright Information Participate Membership Donate Volunteer Interning at MoFA Combined Talents CFA Galleries WJB Gallery Gallery 208 Working Method Contemporary Gallery (CAB) Phyllis Straus Gallery (CAB) Visit Visitor Information Contact College Map About History Faculty and Staff About the College Events Upcoming Events and Lectures College of Fine Arts Events News Exhibitions Recent Exhibitions Upcoming Exhibitions Currently at MoFA MoFA at Home Make it with MoFA Art Walks Mini Masterpieces Home Work Student Voices Learn Collections Tours Object Guides Copyright Information Participate Membership Donate Volunteer Interning at MoFA Combined Talents CFA Galleries WJB Gallery Gallery 208 Working Method Contemporary Gallery (CAB) Phyllis Straus Gallery (CAB) X × Museum of Fine Arts News March 3, 2022 Trust & Transformation: Circus Costume Designs by … There are few artists as influential to circus showmanship as the twentieth-century costume designer Miles White. White intended to pursue a career in high fashion, but READ MORE » February 7, 2022 Trust & Transformation: Circus Posters from the Ti … The history of the circus is in many ways the history of poster art. To become the greatest shows on earth, circuses needed the greatest advertisements on earth. Trust & READ MORE » January 31, 2022 Spring exhibitions at FSU’s Museum of Fine Arts Article courtesy of FSU News, written by Anna Prentiss Jiha Moon, “Olijug,” earthware, underglaze, and glaze (2020). Photo credit: Eliza Schneider-Green. The Florida State University Museum of Fine Arts (MoFA) is featuring three new exhibitions READ MORE » January 6, 2022 Upcoming Event! Threshold: A 360-Degree Dance Film Threshold: A 360-Degree Dance Film On Thursday, April 21st, from 5:00-8:00 PM, join us for a virtual reality (VR) screening of Threshold, a 360-degree dance film created by Malia Bruker READ MORE » January 5, 2022 Trust & Transformation at the Circus: 75 Years of … Join us for a special exhibition celebrating the 75th anniversary of FSU’s Flying High Circus. Marvel at the feats of wonder and expand your understanding of the circus as READ MORE » August 24, 2021 Linda Hall and Becki Rutta’s “Social Distan … During quarantine, Linda Hall and Becki Rutta documented the impact of the pandemic on Tallahassee through a series of performances and interventions in local malls, parks, and other shared spaces. READ MORE » More News » Museum of Fine Arts Collaboration, creativity, and critical engagement. Events » Visit » News » Exhibitions » Learn More Facilities Map Apply Contact What's Happening at the Museum Trust & Transformation: Circus Costume Designs by … March 3, 2022 Trust & Transformation: Circus Posters from the Ti … February 7, 2022 Spring exhibitions at FSU’s Museum of Fine Arts January 31, 2022 Upcoming Event! Threshold: A 360-Degree Dance Film January 6, 2022 Trust & Transformation at the Circus: 75 Years of … January 5, 2022 More News » Trust & Transformation: Circus Costume Designs by … March 3, 2022 There are few artists as influential to circus showmanship as the twentieth-century costume designer Miles White. White intended to pursue a career in high fashion, but Read More » More Events » ADMISSION The museum is always free and open to the public. SUMMER HOURS Monday: Closed Tuesday: Closed Wednesday: 10am-4pm Thursday: 10am-8pm Friday: 10am-4pm Saturday: 10am-4pm Sunday: Closed PARKING ParkMobile pay to park is available on the main level of the Call Street Garage. ADDRESS FSU Museum of Fine Arts 530 West Call Street Tallahassee, FL 32306-1140 (850) 644-6836 English Arabic Chinese (Simplified) Dutch English French German Italian Portuguese Russian Spanish © 2022 Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright FSU Directory Assistance: 850-644-2525 FSU Social Media: This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish. Cookie settingsACCEPT Privacy & Cookies Policy Close Privacy Overview This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience. Necessary Necessary Always Enabled Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Non-necessary Non-necessary Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website. SAVE & ACCEPT X X