Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Molecular Biosciences myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Contact Diversity, Equity, Inclusion Newsletter Overview Academics Select to follow link Degrees Admission Select to follow link Graduate Admissions Life Lawrence Non-degree Seeking Graduate Admissions Undergraduate Admissions People Select to follow link Administration Current Graduate Students Faculty Job Opportuntities Post-Doctoral Researchers Staff Research Select to follow link Beckman Scholars Program Presentations Publications Research Areas Select to follow link Biochemistry & Biophysics Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Cancer Biology Cell Biology Chemical Biology Developmental Biology Genetics Genomics Immunology Infectious Disease Neurobiology Structural Biology Virology Undergraduate Research Seminars Select to follow link Named Lectureships Graduate Program Select to follow link Ph.D. Overview For Current Graduate Students Alumni and Friends Select to follow link Former Graduate Students Keeping in Touch Resources Welcome to KU Molecular Biosciences Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Molecular Biosciences Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search KU Molecular Biosciences We are an interdisciplinary group of faculty who perform cutting edge research in a wide range of areas including biochemistry, biophysics, structural biology, bioinformatics, cancer biology, genetics, genomics, immunology, microbiology, virology, neurobiology, molecular, cellular and developmental biology. Dr. Ackley has been appointed to two editorial boards: BMC Biology and Journal of Developmental Biology. Brian Ackley Associate Professor Dr. Xu received a Pilot Grant from The Kansas Institute for Precision Medicine (KIPM) COBRE at the University of Kansas Medical Center, aiming to discover potent and specific chemical probes for delineating the functional roles of MSI1/2 in cancer progression. Dr. Xu was also invited to be a Specialty Chief Editor for the journal: Frontiers in Drug Discovery, which is headquartered in Lausanne, Switzerland. Liang Xu Professor More News >> Graduate Program Our graduate program in life sciences research is designed to provide world-class training in both the classroom and research laboratory to prepare students for the next stage of their careers. Degrees Offered Undergraduate Programs We sponsor several undergraduate degrees covering a variety of current topics in the life sciences, from single molecules, to cells, development, and disease. Find more information regarding our majors. Degrees Offered Apply Now Graduate Program Graduate Program Undergrad Program Undergrad Program Presentations Wen-Juan Ma (postdoc, Unckless lab) gave a virtual talk at PopGroup 2022 entitled “The evolution and genetic mechanism of sex-ratio meiotic drive in Drosophila affinis”. More Presentations>> Publications Dasovich M, Zhuo J, Goodman JA, Thomas A, McPherson RL, Jayabalan AK, Busa VF, Cheng SJ, Murphy BA, Redinger KR, Alhammad YMO, Fehr AR, Tsukamoto T, Slusher BS, Bosch J, Wei H, Leung AKL (2022) High-Throughput Activity Assay for Screening Inhibitors of the SARS-CoV-2 Mac1 Macrodomain. ACS Chem Biol Matthew E Ochs 1, Rebecca M McWhirter 2, Robert L Unckless 1, David M Miller 3rd 2, Erik A Lundquist (2022) Caenorhabditis elegans ETR-1/CELF has broad effects on the muscle cell transcriptome, including genes that regulate translation and neuroblast migrationBMC Genomics Wang J, Lan L, Wu X, Xu L and Miao Y* (2022) Mechanism of RNA recognition by a Musashi RNA-binding protein. Current Research in Structural Biology Zoe E. Dimond, Robert J. Suchland, Srishti Baid, Scott D. LaBrie, Katelyn R. Soules, Jacob Stanley, Steven Carrell, Forrest Kwong, Yibing Wang, Daniel D. Rockey, Kevin Hybiske, P. Scott Hefty (2021) Inter-species lateral gene transfer focused on the Chlamydia plasticity zone identifies loci associated with immediate cytotoxicity and inclusion stabilityMolecular Microbiology Xiao, H., Ye, X., Vishwakarma, V., Preet, R., and Dixon, D.A. (2022) CRC-derived exosomes containing the RNA binding protein HuR promote lung cell proliferation by stabilizing c-Myc mRNA. Cancer Biology and Therapy Stuart J Macdonald, Kristen M Cloud-Richardson, Dylan J Sims-West, Anthony D Long (2022) Powerful, efficient QTL mapping in Drosophila melanogaster using bulked phenotyping and pooled sequencingGenetics Mintoo M, Chakravarty A, and Tilvawala R.* (2021) N-Terminomics Strategies for Protease Substrates Profiling. Molecules. *Corresponding Author. Tilvawala R, Nemmara VV, Salinger AJ, Sorvillo N, Wagner DD and Thompson PR. (2021) The Role of SERPIN Citrullination in Thrombosis. Cell Chem Bio.in press. More Publications>> 2034 Haworth Hall 1200 Sunnyside Avenue Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Routes: 41, 42 jconnolly@ku.edu 785-864-4311 facebook instagram twitter youtube Diversity, Equity, Inclusion Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.