retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Weibo Instagram Linkedin flickr Reddit tumblr Twitter Vimeo Youtube Facebook medium Google Plus Skip to main content Open Menu MENU Moody College of Communication Search Search (required) FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Give About About Moody College Advisory Council Alumni Awards College Faculty College Leadership Dean's Ambassadors Dean's Welcome Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Facilities Global Engagement Moody College Family Network Resources for Faculty and Staff Support Moody College State of the College Address 2021 Visit Us Students Career Center Undergraduate Students Education Abroad Graduation Graduate Programs Prospective Students Student Stories UT in Los Angeles Program UT in New York Program Academics Degree in Communication & Leadership Department of Communication Studies Department of Radio-Television-Film Department of Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences School of Journalism and Media Stan Richards School of Advertising & Public Relations Honors Program Minors Research & Centers Research, Labs and Initiatives Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Life Center for Advancing Teaching Excellence Center for Entertainment and Media Industries Center for Health Communication Center for Media Engagement Center for Sports Communication & Media Global Sustainability Leadership Institute Institute for Media Innovation Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas Lang Stuttering Institute Latino Media Arts & Studies Program Speech, Debate and Forensics Speech and Hearing Center Technology and Information Policy Institute Texas Immersive Institute VOCES Oral History Center Wofford Denius UTLA Center for Entertainment & Media Studies Media Texas Moody Media Bevo Video Productions Burntx Cactus Yearbook East Austin Stories KUT 90.5/KUTX 98.9 KVRX Student Radio Reporting Texas Student Film Showcase Texas Student Media Texas Student TV Texas Travesty The Daily Texan The Drag Audio Events & Stories Events Stories Artificial intelligence and the future of work S. Craig Watkins discusses research and projections for managing key work issues and challenges S. Craig Watkins, professor in the School of Journalism and Media, as well as a researcher and designer in diverse media technologies, joined other University of Texas at Austin faculty for a timely conversation on Wednesday, Sept. 22. "The Future of Work: It's a Brave New World" explored how organizations can forge new paths. Watkins, along with experts from the McCombs School of Business and LBJ School of Public Affairs, discussed their research and projections for managing key work issues and challenges, such as: What is the future of the corporate office? How will flexible work shape our cities and the real estate market? How will technology continue to transform our work models and daily patterns? How has the pandemic changed workforce structure? Watkins specifically considers artificial intelligence or A.I., a series of algorithmic and computational processes that allow decisions to be automated, or systemize what might otherwise be a human form of task-solving. "As machines become much more capable of doing a wider range of human tasks, many are raising the question, 'What does it mean for the future of work?'" Watkins said. Q&A What does machine labor look like? We've long known that machines perform what we might call manual labor. Think about an automobile factory, and the manufacturing of cars, and the ways in which robots are now a significant part of the assembly line process. If you go into other industrial factory contexts, you'll see machines are becoming more and more capable of performing the work that humans used to do. But what's happening over the last 10 years or so, and this is only accelerating, is that the machines are not only able to perform what we might call manual labor, but they are also able to perform cognitive labor. And so, we're seeing this in the medical field. We're seeing this in the legal field. We're seeing it in the financial field. What is an example of machine labor actually applied? In the financial sector, as one example, a lot of the financial reports are now being written by algorithms, because they're largely very technical reports. They rely, essentially, on an analysis of financial data sets. And so, the belief is that you can basically build these automated systems that can process financial data much more quickly -- larger batches of significantly larger batches of data. A lot of financial companies are relying on that kind of technology to produce records. What should we think about moving forward? The main point being here is that there is a growing recognition that A.I. is going to have a significant impact on the future of work. And so that has some real ethical consequences for how we think about our economy and how we think about economic inequality. Lizzie Chen Natalie England A 'distributed mosaic' of sound Moody College welcomes new leadership for its top programs in advertising and public relations For more information, contact: Kathleen Mabley at 512-232-1417 Subscribe to our newsletter 300 W. Dean Keeton (A0900) Austin, TX 78712-1069 Phone: 512-471-5775 Contacts FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu About Students Research & Centers Stories Events UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022