retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Weibo Instagram Linkedin flickr Reddit tumblr Twitter Vimeo Youtube Facebook medium Google Plus Skip to main content "Moody College of Communication Search Search (required) Give Open Menu MENU Moody College of Communication About About Moody College Advisory Council Alumni Awards College Faculty College Leadership Dean's Ambassadors Dean's Welcome Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Facilities Global Engagement Moody College Family Network Resources for Faculty and Staff Support Moody College State of the College Address 2021 Visit Us Students Career Center Undergraduate Students Education Abroad Graduation Graduate Programs Prospective Students Student Stories UT in Los Angeles Program UT in New York Program Academics Degree in Communication & Leadership Department of Communication Studies Department of Radio-Television-Film Department of Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences School of Journalism and Media Stan Richards School of Advertising & Public Relations Honors Program Minors Research & Centers Research, Labs and Initiatives Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Life Center for Advancing Teaching Excellence Center for Entertainment and Media Industries Center for Health Communication Center for Media Engagement Center for Sports Communication & Media Global Sustainability Leadership Institute Institute for Media Innovation Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas Lang Stuttering Institute Latino Media Arts & Studies Program Speech, Debate and Forensics Speech and Hearing Center Technology and Information Policy Institute Texas Immersive Institute VOCES Oral History Center Wofford Denius UTLA Center for Entertainment & Media Studies Media Texas Moody Media Bevo Video Productions Burntx Cactus Yearbook East Austin Stories KUT 90.5/KUTX 98.9 KVRX Student Radio Reporting Texas Student Film Showcase Texas Student Media Texas Student TV Texas Travesty The Daily Texan The Drag Audio Events & Stories Events Stories Center for Advancing Teaching Excellence Home About Us News & Events Initiatives Teaching & Technology Connect Home About Us News & Events Initiatives Teaching & Technology Connect Center for Advancing Teaching Excellence: Home Center for Advancing Teaching Excellence: Home bridge Center For Advancing Teaching Excellence The Moody College Center for Advancing Teaching Excellence (CATE) shines a spotlight on outstanding teaching and encourages effective teaching practices. Learn more about our initiatives, the services we provide, and news and events in the exciting world of Moody teaching and learning. 650+ Consultations 84 Events and Trainings 1300+ Moody Shoutouts 109 ULAs Undergraduate Learning Assistant Program Undergraduate Learning Assistant Program The ULA program partners faculty with a student who has completed their class to assist with instructional duties, office hours, research for class, test new assignments, tech support, and more. ULAs also provide near-peer mentoring to help other students to be successful. Inclusive Teaching & Learning Inclusive Teaching & Learning Inclusive teaching benefits all students and can be integrated into any new or existing courses. This site provides small things that you can do to make your classrooms and your teaching more inclusive. Moody Shoutouts Moody Shoutouts For the past four semesters, we have encouraged the #TEXASMoody community to take a moment to acknowledge thoughtful, hard-working faculty and staff members. In spring 2022 we were amazed at how many responded to share notes about those who have influenced and encouraged them along the way. Check out some of the "shoutouts" we received! CATE Above and Beyond Awards CATE is excited to recognize and reward the exceptional efforts of Moody College faculty to ensure high-quality teaching and to adapt to the changing learning environment brought by COVID. We received over 117 nominations and are thrilled to have offered ten awards to acknowledge and thank our hard-working and innovative faculty. Read About The Winners Recognition of Teaching Excellence in Moody College Faculty Spotlight Josh Gunn is a professor of communication studies. He is currently teaching COM370H (Hygiene/Politics of Waste) and CMS 390R (The Subject). Gunn’s most recent book Political Perversion: Rhetorical Aberration in the Time of Trumpeteering, was published in 2020. Read Spotlight Graduate Student Spotlight Karen Schlag is a doctoral candidate in the Department of Communication Studies. She was a multi-year Assistant Instructor for the department’s Language, Communication and Culture course, and is currently a teaching assistant for Dr. Dina Inman Ramgolam’s Digital Communication class. Before starting her doctoral program at UT, she worked at the University of Houston-Downtown (UHD) as a lecturer. Read Spotlight What are people saying about CATE? CATE staff have been a wonderful resource to me...They have had immense patience and a willingness to help which is remarkable. They never fail to convey to me that they are keenly interested in the issues and problems that I bring to them, and they are indefatigable in searching for solutions. - Meme Drumwright, Advertising & Public Relations It was great to have Moody resources when we were scrambling just to keep our heads above water. But now it’s imperative to be proactive about pedagogy and engage in the best practices – CATE directly leads us in this mission. CATE makes Moody the home of better educators. - Kathleen McElroy, Journalism and Media As a professor who likes to try new things, it's reassuring to know CATE always has my back. I couldn't do what I do without them. [CATE] is a one-stop shop for a professor who wants to shine. At the end of the day, teaching is about engaging your students, and that is where CATE makes a difference for all of us. - Joe Cutbirth, Communication Studies CommuniCATE Newsletter About CATE Follow us on Social Media Contact Us Email us with questions, to request a training, or to make an appointment. MoodyCATE@austin.utexas.edu Subscribe to our newsletter 300 W. Dean Keeton (A0900) Austin, TX 78712-1069 Phone: 512-471-5775 Contacts FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu About Students Research & Centers Stories Events UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022