retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Weibo Instagram Linkedin flickr Reddit tumblr Twitter Vimeo Youtube Facebook medium Google Plus Skip to main content "Center for Sports Communication & Media Search Search (required) FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Give Open Menu MENU Moody College of Communication About About Moody College Advisory Council Alumni Awards College Faculty College Leadership Dean's Ambassadors Dean's Welcome Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Facilities Global Engagement Moody College Family Network Resources for Faculty and Staff Support Moody College State of the College Address 2021 Visit Us Students Career Center Undergraduate Students Education Abroad Graduation Graduate Programs Prospective Students Student Stories UT in Los Angeles Program UT in New York Program Academics Degree in Communication & Leadership Department of Communication Studies Department of Radio-Television-Film Department of Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences School of Journalism and Media Stan Richards School of Advertising & Public Relations Honors Program Minors Research & Centers Research, Labs and Initiatives Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Life Center for Advancing Teaching Excellence Center for Entertainment and Media Industries Center for Health Communication Center for Media Engagement Center for Sports Communication & Media Global Sustainability Leadership Institute Institute for Media Innovation Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas Lang Stuttering Institute Latino Media Arts & Studies Program Speech, Debate and Forensics Speech and Hearing Center Technology and Information Policy Institute Texas Immersive Institute VOCES Oral History Center Wofford Denius UTLA Center for Entertainment & Media Studies Media Texas Moody Media Bevo Video Productions Burntx Cactus Yearbook East Austin Stories KUT 90.5/KUTX 98.9 KVRX Student Radio Reporting Texas Student Film Showcase Texas Student Media Texas Student TV Texas Travesty The Daily Texan The Drag Audio Events & Stories Events Stories Center for Sports Communication & Media Home About People Curriculum Programs Partners News & Events Resources Home About People Curriculum Programs Partners News & Events Resources Center for Sports Communication & Media Legendary sportscaster Bob Costas meets with students before his addres at the Frank Deford Lecture in Sports Journalism Center for Sports Communication & Media Politics in Sports Media: 2022 report The Center for Sports Communication & Media (CSCM) at The University of Texas at Austin is proud to announce its first annual report, “Politics in Sports Media.” This comprehensive study of sports media content in the United States captures a range of audience perceptions and details critical issues in sports media. The report’s research team includes 16 faculty members and graduate students, mostly in the Moody College of Communication. The team was led by Dr. Natalie Brown-Devlin, Dr. Jennifer McClearen, and CSCM director, Dr. Michael L. Butterworth. “Politics in Sports Media” defines “politics” broadly to include references to campaigns, elected officials, and legislation as well as matters of power, resources, and equity. The relationship between sports and politics is neither new nor temporary and CSCM plans to issue this report each January. Highlights for 2022 include: Sports media viewers rated topics involving elected officials or candidates as the most political topic Sports media viewers rated athlete protests as one of the most political topics Sports media viewers rated transgender athlete rights as political but were more neutral about gender issues generally 85% of sports media viewers who identified as Republican opposed athlete protests; 68% of those identifying as Democrat supported them Among mainstream sports media outlets, ESPN received the highest scores for Credibility, Accuracy, and Trustworthiness from sports media viewers Among mainstream sports media outlets, Fox Sports was perceived to be the most “Conservative” and NBC Sports the most “Liberal” by sports media viewers. Overall, sports viewers who identified as Democrat were more favorable than those who identified as Republican about the mixing of sports and politics Critical case studies demonstrate structural relationships between sports media and political issues The first case study looks to the anniversary of 9/11 to question the use of “unity” as a political symbol in sports The second case study explores the tension between individualism and the public welfare with regard to COVID vaccines in sports The third case study examine the metaphor of “paternalism” used in the discussions of name, image, and likeness (NIL) in the NCAA The fourth case study notes tendencies in sports media to focus on political implications for legislators—and not for athletes—in state bills opposing transgender athlete participation The fifth case study acknowledges the challenge for advocates of women’s sports leagues such as the NWSL who may underplay ethical abuses for fear of blunting the momentum for women athletes The sixth case study points out sports media limitations in coverage of Black women athletes and suggests individuals such as Simone Biles and Naomi Osaka are increasingly taking control of their own stories Read our summary 2021 Jenkins Medal winners: Angell and Jackson Roger Angell and Mitchell S. Jackson have been named 2021 award winners by the Dan Jenkins Medal for Excellence in Sportswriting jury. Angell receives the Lifetime Achievement award while Jackson is recognized for the best sportswriting of the year (2020). This is the fifth year these national awards have been named. They were created in honor of Jenkins, the legendary Texas sportswriter, to celebrate the craft and culture of sportswriting he personified through his storied career. For more information see www.jenkinsmedal.com. Angell is a senior editor and a staff writer at The New Yorker, to which he has contributed since 1944. Since 1962, he has written more than a hundred Sporting Scene pieces for the magazine, mostly on baseball but also on tennis, hockey, football, rowing, and horse racing. His baseball books include “The Summer Game,” “Five Seasons,” “Late Innings,” “Season Ticket,” “Once More Around the Park,” “A Pitcher’s Story,” and “Game Time.” His writing has appeared in many anthologies, including “The Best American Sports Writing,” “The Best American Short Stories,” “The Best American Essays,” and “The Best American Magazine Writing.” His work has also been collected in nine of his own books, among them “The Stone Arbor and Other Stories,” “A Day in the Life of Roger Angell,” “Let Me Finish,” and “This Old Man: All in Pieces.” “Nothing but You: Love Stories from The New Yorker” is an anthology of fiction selected by him. Mitchell S. Jackson receives the 2021 Jenkins Medal for Best Sportswriting award, a citation for Twelve Minutes and a Life: Ahmaud Arbery went out for a jog and was gunned down in the street. How running fails Black America, published by Runner’s World. In the piece, Jackson recounts the circumstances that led to Arbery’s murder and its stinging cultural legacy as Arbery, a 25-year old Black man, was pursued by armed white men and fatally shot while jogging in Glynn County, Georgia. Jackson’s piece also won the 2021 Pulitzer Prize in Feature Writing and the 2021 National Magazine Award in Feature Writing. Hall of Fame running back Earl Campbell, a graduate of the Moody College of Communication, was named the Jenkins Medal Legend award winner. www.jenkinsmedal.com Where Are They Now: Recent Moody Graduates Kevin Robbins, CSCM Associate Director and Professor in the School of Journalism and Media, led a roundtable discussion with five recent graduates of the Moody College of Communication who are working in various capacity in sports journalism and sports media. Participants include: Andres Farrera, Stan Richards School of Advertising & Public Relations (2019), Corporate Account Executive, St. Louis FC Rachel Goodman, School of Journalism and Media (2016), Associate Producer, NBC Sports Shivam Patel, Department of Communication Studies (2019), Founder and Host, Patel Pick and Roll Sports, Media and Promotions Christine Taylor, Department of Radio-TV-Film (2020), Production Assistant, CBS Sports Jeremy Thomas, School of Journalism and Media (2015), Multimedia Journalist, KTRE-TV This conversation was hosted via Zoom on March 31, 2021 at 5 pm CDT. Watch the recording on YouTube now. The Frank Deford Lecture in Sports Journalism The Center for Sports Communication and Media hosts the Frank Deford Lecture in Sports Journalism every April on the UT-Austin campus to hear leading professionals address the pressing cultural issues of the day. Named after the iconic journalist who left substantial bodies of work in print, radio and television at the time of his death in 2017, the Deford Lecture offers Moody College students access to the leading sports journalists of the day. Andrea Joyce: 2019 Deford Lecture Deford Lecture videos Frank Deford, 1938-2017 The Dan Jenkins Medal for Excellence in Sportswriting The Center for Sports Communication and Media hosts the Dan Jenkins Medal for Excellence in Sportswriting as a celebration of the craft and history of sportswriting. Named in honor of the legendary Texan and one of the most accomplished sportwriters of his generation, the Jenkins Medal is awarded annually at a dinner every fall. The Dan Jenkins Medal for Excellence in Sportswriting Jenkins Medal video Dan Jenkins, in memorium CSCM Tweets ⇄ Center for Sports Communication & Media Retweeted Michael Butterworth BurntO_Butterwo @UT_CSCM awarded Roger Angell the 2021 Dan Jenkins Medal for Excellence in Sportswriting for Lifetime Achievement.… https://t.co/ugP4xt4NrE 1 week 3 days ago ↺ ⇄ ☆ ⇄ Center for Sports Communication & Media Retweeted New Yorker Fiction NYerFiction A very sad goodbye to Roger Angell, who was the backbone of The New Yorker's Fiction Department for more than fifty… https://t.co/FFfiMht6p8 1 week 2 days ago ↺ ⇄ ☆ ⇄ Center for Sports Communication & Media Retweeted Ken Tremendous KenTremendous Impossible to overstate what Roger Angell meant to me, and all baseball fans my age. I devoured his books, treasure… https://t.co/EnABowyjzV 1 week 3 days ago ↺ ⇄ ☆ ⇄ Center for Sports Communication & Media Retweeted Sarah Larson asarahlarson Heartbroken about the great Roger Angell, even though he was 101 and lived a phenomenal life. I still think about t… https://t.co/SvMRG9MUgh 1 week 3 days ago ↺ ⇄ ☆ ⇄ Center for Sports Communication & Media Retweeted Full Dissident hbryant42 Oh no. Roger Angell. 101 years old. Saw Babe Ruth, Jackie Robinson, Reggie, Rickey, Bonds, Trout, and Ohtani. One o… https://t.co/78KSOF306c 1 week 3 days ago ↺ ⇄ ☆ ⇄ Center for Sports Communication & Media Retweeted Craig Calcaterra craigcalcaterra One of my favorite Roger Angell pieces was not about baseball. It was about aging. It's neither morose nor maudlin… https://t.co/vuEQhQhI8v 1 week 3 days ago ↺ ⇄ ☆ ⇄ Center for Sports Communication & Media Retweeted Peter Gammons pgammo Few in my professional life were kinder and more influential to me than Roger Angell, to the Fens no more. We laugh… https://t.co/QrinXkEBsY 1 week 3 days ago ↺ ⇄ ☆ View on Twitter Subscribe to our newsletter 300 W. Dean Keeton (A0900) Austin, TX 78712-1069 Phone: 512-471-5775 Contacts FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu About Students Research & Centers Stories Events UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022