retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Weibo Instagram Linkedin flickr Reddit tumblr Twitter Vimeo Youtube Facebook medium Google Plus Skip to main content Open Menu MENU Moody College of Communication Search Search (required) FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Give About About Moody College Advisory Council Alumni Awards College Faculty College Leadership Dean's Ambassadors Dean's Welcome Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Facilities Global Engagement Moody College Family Network Resources for Faculty and Staff Support Moody College State of the College Address 2021 Visit Us Students Career Center Undergraduate Students Education Abroad Graduation Graduate Programs Prospective Students Student Stories UT in Los Angeles Program UT in New York Program Academics Degree in Communication & Leadership Department of Communication Studies Department of Radio-Television-Film Department of Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences School of Journalism and Media Stan Richards School of Advertising & Public Relations Honors Program Minors Research & Centers Research, Labs and Initiatives Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Life Center for Advancing Teaching Excellence Center for Entertainment and Media Industries Center for Health Communication Center for Media Engagement Center for Sports Communication & Media Global Sustainability Leadership Institute Institute for Media Innovation Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas Lang Stuttering Institute Latino Media Arts & Studies Program Speech, Debate and Forensics Speech and Hearing Center Technology and Information Policy Institute Texas Immersive Institute VOCES Oral History Center Wofford Denius UTLA Center for Entertainment & Media Studies Media Texas Moody Media Bevo Video Productions Burntx Cactus Yearbook East Austin Stories KUT 90.5/KUTX 98.9 KVRX Student Radio Reporting Texas Student Film Showcase Texas Student Media Texas Student TV Texas Travesty The Daily Texan The Drag Audio Events & Stories Events Stories Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion DEI_Website_Graphics_Banner1 Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion May 11, 2022 Apply to be a Moody Media Scholars for Social Change! 2022-2023 Dear Moody College Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors, Are you searching for a way to be the social change you seek? Are you passionate about issues of representation and power as they appear in the study and the practice of media and communication? Are you interested in participating in outreach and media creation with the aim of fostering constructive dialogue around pressing issues in the lives of marginalized citizens and their communities? You can be the social change you seek if you are selected as one of five students who will be a Moody Media Scholar for Social Change for the 2022-2023 academic year. Moody Media Scholars will be supported by the Moody Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion as they serve as advocates and leaders for innovative and equitable social change within Moody and beyond. Apply to be considered for selection in the next cohort of Moody Media Scholars for Social Change. Applications close May 11 with notifications of selection on May 25. Make that change. Learn More. Our Commitment To You The Moody College of Communication is committed to a culture of inclusion and equity in which all of our students, faculty, staff, and visitors are welcome and respected. As a community, we commit to establish and nurture a climate of inclusion that is anti-racist, anti-sexist, and anti-bigotry of all kinds, and combats prejudice, hostility, or discrimination toward any culture or group. Learn more about our mission and our progress. Ya'Ke Smith • Associate Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion "As a Black man who was the first of his family to graduate from college, I have witnessed first-hand how historically marginalized communities are systematically excluded from higher education. It is my charge as your current Associate Dean for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion to create an environment where everyone is given an opportunity to succeed." Learn More Moody Media Scholars for Social Change The Moody Media Scholars for Social Change serve as advocates for historically underrepresented students within Moody and advise the college on best practices for supporting students from these communities. Learn More DEI Leadership Learn about the members of the Moody College faculty and staff working to institute equity across the college. Learn More DEI Events Events throughout the Moody College community and beyond centered on diversity, equity, and inclusion. Learn More DEI Courses Courses offered by Moody College instructors that highlight diversity, equity, and inclusion. Learn More Programs & Initiatives Details on the steps being taken to institute a more equitable and inclusive culture across Moody College. Learn More Moody Cares Resources for Moody students and instructors aimed at supporting a more inclusive and equitable culture and learning environment. Learn more CARE Counselor CARE is the university's Counseling and Mental Health Center program that was created in collaboration with the Office of the Provost. CARE’s primary mission is to provide access to mental health support for students who are struggling emotionally and/or academically. To learn more about Abby Simpson, LCSW - your Moody College of Communication CARE counselor - click below. Learn More Resource Library Students Resources for students focused on diversity, equity, and inclusion. Faculty & Staff Resources for faculty and staff focused on diversity, equity, and inclusion. General General resources for the Moody community focused on diversity, equity, and inclusion. Media Text-Audio-Visual media resources focused on diversity, equity, and inclusion. DEI Menu Home About Students Faculty & Staff Courses DEI Strategic Action Plan Donate to Moody College DEI Initiatives Contact Moody College DEI Office Quick Links Moody Student Emergency Fund Student Emergency Services Texas Well-Being Division of Diversity and Community Engagement Diversity | Provost's Office Office for Inclusion and Equity Center for Advancing Teaching Excellence Gender and Sexuality Center Services for Students with Disabilities Racial Geography Tour Latino Media Arts & Studies Texas Global Graduation Help Desk Title IX Office Diversity Awareness Calendar Subscribe to our newsletter 300 W. Dean Keeton (A0900) Austin, TX 78712-1069 Phone: 512-471-5775 Contacts FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu About Students Research & Centers Stories Events UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022