retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Weibo Instagram Linkedin flickr Reddit tumblr Twitter Vimeo Youtube Facebook medium Google Plus Skip to main content Open Menu MENU Moody College of Communication Search Search (required) FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Give About About Moody College Advisory Council Alumni Awards College Faculty College Leadership Dean's Ambassadors Dean's Welcome Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Facilities Global Engagement Moody College Family Network Resources for Faculty and Staff Support Moody College State of the College Address 2021 Visit Us Students Career Center Undergraduate Students Education Abroad Graduation Graduate Programs Prospective Students Student Stories UT in Los Angeles Program UT in New York Program Academics Degree in Communication & Leadership Department of Communication Studies Department of Radio-Television-Film Department of Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences School of Journalism and Media Stan Richards School of Advertising & Public Relations Honors Program Minors Research & Centers Research, Labs and Initiatives Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Life Center for Advancing Teaching Excellence Center for Entertainment and Media Industries Center for Health Communication Center for Media Engagement Center for Sports Communication & Media Global Sustainability Leadership Institute Institute for Media Innovation Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas Lang Stuttering Institute Latino Media Arts & Studies Program Speech, Debate and Forensics Speech and Hearing Center Technology and Information Policy Institute Texas Immersive Institute VOCES Oral History Center Wofford Denius UTLA Center for Entertainment & Media Studies Media Texas Moody Media Bevo Video Productions Burntx Cactus Yearbook East Austin Stories KUT 90.5/KUTX 98.9 KVRX Student Radio Reporting Texas Student Film Showcase Texas Student Media Texas Student TV Texas Travesty The Daily Texan The Drag Audio Events & Stories Events Stories Global Engagement at Moody College Moody Global Global Engagement at Moody College brilliant solutions that influence how the world connects today and tomorrow. Communication Beyond Borders The Moody College of Communication promotes learning beyond the national borders of the United States. Our students, faculty, and alumni are building global bridges to share their ideas and collaborate with others around the world. At Moody College, we recognize that it takes diverse mindsets to create solutions that will change the world. 63 faculty members engaged in global work 52 countries around the world 28 international and visiting faculty Students Our students are learning about the world around them both in the classrooms at UT Austin and abroad. Learn More Faculty Our faculty are global leaders in their respective fields. Moody College faculty are conducting research on six continents. Learn More Alumni At Moody College, we believe that you never stop learning and growing and that is true for our alumni. Our alumni are making big impacts around the world. Learn More CMS Grad Student Chosen for Korean Fulbright Samantha James, Ph.D. candidate in Communication Studies, has been chosen for a Research Fulbright in Korea. In Seoul, the birthplace of K-pop, fans from around the world gather for both official and fan-made events and demonstrate how their shared passion drives collective action. With support from the Fulbright Research Award, Sam James will spend 10 months in Seoul conducting participant ethnography and in-depth interviews to understand how globalization and emerging technologies influence the contradiction between shame and pride in this comparative study of K-pop fan organizing in the US and South Korea. About Fulbright: The Fulbright U.S. Student Program is an internationally recognized program of the U.S. Department of State that provides grants for individually designed study/research projects or for English Teaching Assistant Programs. Research Awards provide the opportunity for graduate students to complete independent research projects abroad through 10 months of grant support in specific countries. President's Award for Global Learning The University of Texas at Austin educates global leaders who have more than a transcript in their toolkit. They have a hands-on, cross-cultural experience. They have big ideas and plans. The world has gotten smaller, but the challenges have gotten bigger. The President's Award for Global Learning lets students take on the one big thing they want to change. Learn More Education Abroad at Moody College Moody Global Global Engagement at Moody College Global Engagement Committee International Education Faculty Initiatives Student Resources Alumni Connections News and Events Subscribe to our newsletter 300 W. Dean Keeton (A0900) Austin, TX 78712-1069 Phone: 512-471-5775 Contacts FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu About Students Research & Centers Stories Events UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022