retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Weibo Instagram Linkedin flickr Reddit tumblr Twitter Vimeo Youtube Facebook medium Google Plus Skip to main content "Lang Stuttering Institute Search Search (required) FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Give Open Menu MENU Moody College of Communication About About Moody College Advisory Council Alumni Awards College Faculty College Leadership Dean's Ambassadors Dean's Welcome Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Facilities Global Engagement Moody College Family Network Resources for Faculty and Staff Support Moody College State of the College Address 2021 Visit Us Students Career Center Undergraduate Students Education Abroad Graduation Graduate Programs Prospective Students Student Stories UT in Los Angeles Program UT in New York Program Academics Degree in Communication & Leadership Department of Communication Studies Department of Radio-Television-Film Department of Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences School of Journalism and Media Stan Richards School of Advertising & Public Relations Honors Program Minors Research & Centers Research, Labs and Initiatives Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Life Center for Advancing Teaching Excellence Center for Entertainment and Media Industries Center for Health Communication Center for Media Engagement Center for Sports Communication & Media Global Sustainability Leadership Institute Institute for Media Innovation Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas Lang Stuttering Institute Latino Media Arts & Studies Program Speech, Debate and Forensics Speech and Hearing Center Technology and Information Policy Institute Texas Immersive Institute VOCES Oral History Center Wofford Denius UTLA Center for Entertainment & Media Studies Media Texas Moody Media Bevo Video Productions Burntx Cactus Yearbook East Austin Stories KUT 90.5/KUTX 98.9 KVRX Student Radio Reporting Texas Student Film Showcase Texas Student Media Texas Student TV Texas Travesty The Daily Texan The Drag Audio Events & Stories Events Stories Lang Stuttering Institute Home Ways to Participate Our Team Research and Resources Bodner Lab Our Programs About the Langs In the News Global Network Give What I Wish People Knew About Stuttering Home Ways to Participate Our Team Research and Resources Bodner Lab Our Programs About the Langs In the News Global Network Give What I Wish People Knew About Stuttering The Michael and Tami Lang Stuttering Institute CMB 2.116, Austin, TX 78712 stuttering@austin.utexas.edu 512-475-6174 The Michael and Tami Lang Stuttering Institute The website for the recently established Arthur M. Blank Center for Stuttering Education and Research is under construction and will be accessible to all soon. If you would like to receive updates regarding our progress, please provide your contact info here. Thank you for your support! Our Mission Established in 2014, The Michael and Tami Lang Stuttering Institute (LSI) is a non-profit organization within the Moody College of Communication at The University of Texas at Austin and serves as a leader in stuttering research and practice. LSI provides evaluations and therapy free of charge, through philanthropic support, to children, teens, and adults who stutter. We equip students and professionals with knowledge and skills in the nature and treatment of stuttering. Our mission is to help people around the world to “Dream. Speak. Live.” Read more about LSI from the Founding Director, Dr. Courtney Byrd. Our Approach LSI has generated new knowledge about treatment that supports shifting from controlled fluency to empowering participants of all ages to speak confidently, communicate effectively, and advocate meaningfully. To learn more about our evidence-based programs, please click here! Through education and acceptance, children and adults develop the courage to share, "What they most wish people knew about stuttering." Camp Dream. Speak. Live. improves communication attitudes, self-advocacy, and resiliency and reduces the impact of stuttering on quality of life. The unique strategies we teach effectively reduce fear and avoidance as well as the likelihood of being bullied and/or discriminated against. Our research has elucidated the linguistic, phonological, and phonetic contributors to typical versus atypical disfluency. Communication Excellence provides children and adults with competencies that improve their ability to communicate. The Lang Stuttering Institute's Advocacy Adventures provides a platform for teens who stutter to mentor their peers in Texas and around the world. Our Impact To date, we have led research initiatives, served participants, educated students, and trained professionals in nearly every state across the nation and every continent across the globe. Connect FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram YoutubeSee us on Youtube "If someone tells me not to stutter, they are basically telling me not to talk, because when I talk, I stutter" - Alex Daman, 14 Watch Alex's speech With your tax-deductible support, we can help more people around the world to Dream. Speak. Live. Subscribe to our newsletter 300 W. Dean Keeton (A0900) Austin, TX 78712-1069 Phone: 512-471-5775 Contacts FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu About Students Research & Centers Stories Events UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022