retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Weibo Instagram Linkedin flickr Reddit tumblr Twitter Vimeo Youtube Facebook medium Google Plus Skip to main content Open Menu MENU Moody College of Communication Search Search (required) FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Give About About Moody College Advisory Council Alumni Awards College Faculty College Leadership Dean's Ambassadors Dean's Welcome Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Facilities Global Engagement Moody College Family Network Resources for Faculty and Staff Support Moody College State of the College Address 2021 Visit Us Students Career Center Undergraduate Students Education Abroad Graduation Graduate Programs Prospective Students Student Stories UT in Los Angeles Program UT in New York Program Academics Degree in Communication & Leadership Department of Communication Studies Department of Radio-Television-Film Department of Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences School of Journalism and Media Stan Richards School of Advertising & Public Relations Honors Program Minors Research & Centers Research, Labs and Initiatives Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Life Center for Advancing Teaching Excellence Center for Entertainment and Media Industries Center for Health Communication Center for Media Engagement Center for Sports Communication & Media Global Sustainability Leadership Institute Institute for Media Innovation Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas Lang Stuttering Institute Latino Media Arts & Studies Program Speech, Debate and Forensics Speech and Hearing Center Technology and Information Policy Institute Texas Immersive Institute VOCES Oral History Center Wofford Denius UTLA Center for Entertainment & Media Studies Media Texas Moody Media Bevo Video Productions Burntx Cactus Yearbook East Austin Stories KUT 90.5/KUTX 98.9 KVRX Student Radio Reporting Texas Student Film Showcase Texas Student Media Texas Student TV Texas Travesty The Daily Texan The Drag Audio Events & Stories Events Stories International Programs study abroad Moody Students Abroad Explore opportunities to travel and study abroad Studying or interning abroad is a transformational experience that unites fun, self-discovery, and learning. It shows a commitment to global citizenship. It helps you learn to navigate challenging situations from different cultural perspectives. It can develop desirable skills for the classroom and job search. Understand the Basics Watch the Education Abroad 101 session. Understand the program types Know how to search for credit possibilities Access resources for finances and financial aid Attend the session: How to Find a Program - Jan. 20 – Mar. 10 Mondays 4:00 - 4:30 pm Thursdays 12:30 - 1:00 pm Learn how to explore programs from a variety of angles, such as credit, length, type, location, and finances. View available times through the Undergraduate Advising webpage. Visit Get Started for a full step-by-step guide to studying abroad. Get resources to explore Find relevant credit possibilities See the application steps Get Your Questions Answered Live Q&A every class day - 11:30 am - 1:00 pm. Drop in during these times to connect with a program coordinator for quick questions. Attend the session: How to Find a Program. View available times through the Undergraduate Advising webpage. After that, you may book an individual appointment with an Education Abroad advisor. Check out more pre-recorded advising sessions at Texas Global’s website. Program Highlights Programs highlighted here have relevant major credit for Moody students. For a full listing of possible programs, see the Education Abroad program search. Salzburg, Austria The Salzburg Academy on Media & Global Change is a unique three-week study abroad program held each year in Salzburg, Austria. Sixty students and a dozen faculty attend from all five continents to develop a dynamic, online Global Media Literacy curriculum. Learn more Shanghai, China This Maymester program out of Stan Richards School of Advertising & PR leverages immersion in the fastest growing media market in the world. Students will focus on both theory and practice in the Brand & Advertising Media Foundations course. Learn more Prague, Czech Republic This Maymester in Prague offers a unique opportunity for photographers of all levels to apprentice with UT Photojournalism professor Dennis Darling, while learning about the art, architecture, film and history of Prague and the Czech Republic. Learn more Aarhus, Denmark The exchange program with Aarhus University is ideal for advanced undergraduate or graduate students with a strong interest in media studies. Students may apply for a one-semester exchange or for a full year of study at Aarhus. Courses are taught in English. Learn more London, England This Maymester offers a unique opportunity to advanced, intermediate, and beginning students of videography to apprentice with an experienced documentary filmmaker and television news producer, while learning about the art, architecture, film, and history of London. Learn more Tampere, Finland This exchange program with Tampere University in the center of the sauna capital of the world. TU is Finland's leading site for Social Sciences, including Journalism and Mass Communication, which was the first institution of higher education in Scandinavia to introduce Journalism as a discipline. Courses are taught in English. Learn more Erfurt, Germany The Summer Program in Communications, SPICE, is an intensive summer study abroad program held on the campus of the University of Erfurt and taught in English to an international classroom. Courses include Communication Studies and International Public Relations. Learn more Dublin, Ireland This Maymester in Dublin is a special opportunity for public relations students. This skills-focused course covers all the essential elements of a basic PR class — writing, campaign design, interview skills — but it does so in one of the world's fastest changing environments. Learn more Madrid, Spain This semester exchange is at IE University, a beautiful and historic site and one of the top ranked universities in Europe offering students an international, humanistic, and entrepreneurial perspective in Communications. Learn more Pamplona, Spain The University of Navarra, located in Pamplona, Spain, offers fall and spring semester exchanges. The University features a student enrollment of approximately 13,000 and allows students to hone their Spanish-language skills while taking mostly Communication course work in one of Spain's most distinguished academic institutions. Learn more NTU - Singapore The semester exchange at the Nanyang University of Technology (NTU) offers courses in one of the world's fastest growing and most "globalized" countries in the world. The Wee Kim Wee School of Communication and Information is the top journalism and media school in Asia. Learn more Connect FacebookFind us on Facebook Search for a Program / Apply Study Abroad By Major Step-by-Step Guide Funding and Scholarships Health and Safety International Travel Policy International Exchange Students Degree-Seeking International Students Faculty Resources Contact Texas Global - Education Abroad Physical location Moody College of Communication Office of Student Advising, BMC 2.600 Mailing address Moody College of Communication The University of Texas at Austin 300 W. Dean Keeton (A0900) Austin, TX 78712-1094 Telephone: (512) 471-1553 Fax: (512) 232-1827 Degrees & Minors Degree Requirements Language Courses Minors Internships Graduation Information How Do I? Meet with my advisor Add or Drop a Class Declare a minor Take a class pass/fail Change my major Register for classes More Enrichment Student Organizations Education Abroad First Year Interest Groups Moody Writing Support Success Program Travel Programs Graduation & Events CommUnity Family Weekend Honors Day Texas Moody Media Graduation Financial Assistance Financial Aid Scholarships Technology Technology Services Equipment Checkout Digital Media Lab Facilities Subscribe to our newsletter 300 W. Dean Keeton (A0900) Austin, TX 78712-1069 Phone: 512-471-5775 Contacts FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu About Students Research & Centers Stories Events UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022