retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Weibo Instagram Linkedin flickr Reddit tumblr Twitter Vimeo Youtube Facebook medium Google Plus Skip to main content Open Menu MENU Moody College of Communication Search Search (required) FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Give About About Moody College Advisory Council Alumni Awards College Faculty College Leadership Dean's Ambassadors Dean's Welcome Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Facilities Global Engagement Moody College Family Network Resources for Faculty and Staff Support Moody College State of the College Address 2021 Visit Us Students Career Center Undergraduate Students Education Abroad Graduation Graduate Programs Prospective Students Student Stories UT in Los Angeles Program UT in New York Program Academics Degree in Communication & Leadership Department of Communication Studies Department of Radio-Television-Film Department of Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences School of Journalism and Media Stan Richards School of Advertising & Public Relations Honors Program Minors Research & Centers Research, Labs and Initiatives Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Life Center for Advancing Teaching Excellence Center for Entertainment and Media Industries Center for Health Communication Center for Media Engagement Center for Sports Communication & Media Global Sustainability Leadership Institute Institute for Media Innovation Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas Lang Stuttering Institute Latino Media Arts & Studies Program Speech, Debate and Forensics Speech and Hearing Center Technology and Information Policy Institute Texas Immersive Institute VOCES Oral History Center Wofford Denius UTLA Center for Entertainment & Media Studies Media Texas Moody Media Bevo Video Productions Burntx Cactus Yearbook East Austin Stories KUT 90.5/KUTX 98.9 KVRX Student Radio Reporting Texas Student Film Showcase Texas Student Media Texas Student TV Texas Travesty The Daily Texan The Drag Audio Events & Stories Events Stories KUT & KUTX Public Radio Who we are KUT 90.5, Austin’s NPR station, and KUTX 98.9, the Austin Music Experience, are two public radio stations under one roof that strive to broaden your perspective on the world in Central Texas and beyond with in-depth news covered through a local lens, and exploration of Austin’s music, lifestyle and culture. Our work is supported by a community of sustaining members, local businesses and foundations whose investments give voice the news, conversations, music and music makers that make Austin – “Austin.” KUT KUT 90.5, Austin’s NPR station, is Central Texas’s source for local, national and international news and information. KUT immerses you in the stories that matter – from your backyard to the other side of the world – while using the highest journalistic standards. By delivering responsible, fact-based news and information, KUT strives to play a central role in local civic life. Every day, KUT journalists immerse themselves in the community to gather facts and diverse perspectives to help listeners make informed decisions and hold elected leaders and – each other – accountable. Through partnerships with other news organizations such as NPR, BBC and The Texas Newsroom, we deliver deep, contextual reporting to give you a 360-degree view of the world. “Texas Standard,” the national daily news show of Texas, is a one-hour daily statewide news magazine produced at the KUT studios and aired on 29 public radio stations across the state. Grounded in the best traditions of American journalism – fact-based, independent and politically neutral – “Texas Standard” offers critical breadth, variety and integrity. KUTX KUTX 98.9 is your destination for the music driving the sound of Austin today – from new and local artists, to those that have stood the test of time. Our passionate, knowledgeable music hosts handpick music that introduces listeners to new perspectives and reflects the spirit of Austin. We believe music is an important part of a healthy community. Every day we strive to support the music and music makers in Austin through programming such as the Austin Music Minute, our Artist of the Month series, and more than 300 live Studio 1A performances each year. Community concerts – such as our KUTX Rock the Park series and KUTX Live events during SXSW and the Austin City Limits music festival – connect music fans to some of their favorite artists. From indie rock to hip-hop, from electronica to outlaw country, from pop to psych-metal, KUTX plays more than 30,000 different songs and hosts nearly 300 live music performances every year. At KUTX, music matters to us – Austin music most of all. INTERNSHIPS KUT and KUTX offer internships for aspiring radio journalists and students interested in public radio and the music industry. Internship opportunities include: KUT News (on-air and online) “Texas Standard” (daily news magazine) KUT and KUTX Multimedia KUTX Music News Features Life & Arts Podcasts Music Program Schedule Playlist Schedule Tweets Latest Tweets KUTX 98.9 KUTX Rock the Park returns this Friday! Mueller & KUTX are excited to return to the amphitheater at Mueller Lake Park,… https://t.co/0MMU0jvjN9 10 hours 47 min ago ↺ ⇄ ☆ KUTX 98.9 KUTX On June 15th, @JoeJacksonMusic is performing at the @ParamountAustin and tickets are on sale RIGHT NOW! Ticket Lin… https://t.co/WeflIwui6K 11 hours 52 min ago ↺ ⇄ ☆ KUTX 98.9 KUTX TOMORROW performing live at the @ParamountAustin it’s @NekoCase! Grab your tickets while you can! Ticket link:… https://t.co/xlE6NfhFiI 13 hours 16 min ago ↺ ⇄ ☆ KUTX 98.9 KUTX Already planning the upcoming weekend? We don't blame you! #SongOfTheDay recommends @BrianWolffMusic's 'The Punch'… https://t.co/Vcj65i22RQ 15 hours 57 min ago ↺ ⇄ ☆ KUTX 98.9 KUTX Rock the Park returns June 3rd! Mueller, KUTX & @SparetheRock are excited to return to the amphitheater at Mueller… https://t.co/ZogBDjk3NC 1 day 13 hours ago ↺ ⇄ ☆ View on Twitter Subscribe to our newsletter 300 W. Dean Keeton (A0900) Austin, TX 78712-1069 Phone: 512-471-5775 Contacts FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu About Students Research & Centers Stories Events UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022