retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Weibo Instagram Linkedin flickr Reddit tumblr Twitter Vimeo Youtube Facebook medium Google Plus Skip to main content "Center for Entertainment & Media Industries Search Search (required) Give Open Menu MENU Moody College of Communication About About Moody College Advisory Council Alumni Awards College Faculty College Leadership Dean's Ambassadors Dean's Welcome Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Facilities Global Engagement Moody College Family Network Resources for Faculty and Staff Support Moody College State of the College Address 2021 Visit Us Students Career Center Undergraduate Students Education Abroad Graduation Graduate Programs Prospective Students Student Stories UT in Los Angeles Program UT in New York Program Academics Degree in Communication & Leadership Department of Communication Studies Department of Radio-Television-Film Department of Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences School of Journalism and Media Stan Richards School of Advertising & Public Relations Honors Program Minors Research & Centers Research, Labs and Initiatives Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Life Center for Advancing Teaching Excellence Center for Entertainment and Media Industries Center for Health Communication Center for Media Engagement Center for Sports Communication & Media Global Sustainability Leadership Institute Institute for Media Innovation Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas Lang Stuttering Institute Latino Media Arts & Studies Program Speech, Debate and Forensics Speech and Hearing Center Technology and Information Policy Institute Texas Immersive Institute VOCES Oral History Center Wofford Denius UTLA Center for Entertainment & Media Studies Media Texas Moody Media Bevo Video Productions Burntx Cactus Yearbook East Austin Stories KUT 90.5/KUTX 98.9 KVRX Student Radio Reporting Texas Student Film Showcase Texas Student Media Texas Student TV Texas Travesty The Daily Texan The Drag Audio Events & Stories Events Stories Center for Entertainment & Media Industries Home People Home People Home CMA 6.120 cemi@austin.utexas.edu Home Founded in 2018 by Co-Directors Dr. Alisa Perren and Dr. Wenhong Chen, the Center for Entertainment & Media Industries (CEMI) was created to serve as the nexus point between industry and academy in the Moody College of Communication. CEMI actively fosters strong and symbiotic connections between the University, the Austin community, the UT student body, and industry leaders in media and technology. Through CEMI, students meet with and learn from industry leaders via speaker series; expand their on-the-job training via internships with distinguished corporate partners; liaise with innovative entertainment and media companies; and hear from top researchers on the latest developments in the global media industries. CEMI bridges college-to-career by placing students at the forefront of ever-evolving industries and offering the connections, experiences, and literacies that will further elevate their job preparedness and diversify their skill sets. CEMI is also focused on developing partnerships, initiatives, and research projects devoted to improving diversity, equity, and inclusion in the media industries. Speakers In conjunction with the Department of Radio-Television-Film, our Global Media Industries Speaker Series (GMISS) and Media Industry Conversations (MIC) speaker series welcome both researchers and professionals from the media, entertainment, and technology industries. Visiting speakers are invited to participate in our initiatives, give talks, answer attendees’ questions, and meet with students. Organized by Dr. Wenhong Chen, GMISS attracts top media and technology researchers from around the world to discuss the latest developments in the global media industries. Since fall 2017, GMISS has celebrated the work of 20+ world-class researchers. We are looking toward expanding our reach through developing a researcher-in-residence program. Dr. Alisa Perren and Associate Professor Cynthia McCreery also provide students the chance to engage with a wide range of industry professionals and to learn about the rapidly changing media landscape through their MIC speaker series. Since its inception in fall 2015, MIC has hosted 75+ speaker sessions with over 90 professionals from Los Angeles, New York, Austin, and everywhere in between. These speakers have shared their knowledge, insights, and experiences with countless students, enhancing their understanding of and interest in a broader range of career paths and companies. Through these two speaker series, students have also made pivotal industry connections that have led to mentorship, internship, and job opportunities. The work of CEMI will allow us to further build on the success of these existing programs and create new opportunities for our students. Through these initiatives, we are able to introduce UT students to new researchers, professionals, and industries each year, and vice versa. Given the importance of these connections, we are also broadening our reach beyond UT, making these invaluable resources available through our podcast and an upcoming textbook. Students In addition to MIC and GMISS, we expand students’ understanding of how the media and technology industries operate through our popular Media and Entertainment Industries minor. The fastest growing minor in the Moody College of Communication—serving 150+ students and counting—we offer deep-dive courses on specific industries and technologies as well as survey courses that showcase the breadth and diversity of work and workers in the media industries. After developing a comprehensive and current foundation through these courses, students can put their industrial knowledge into practice through our internship program. The first of its kind in the Austin area, CEMI’s Texas-focused internship program serves 50+ students each year and strengthens the Austin media and technology scene. In addition to advising students throughout their internship and instructing them on portfolios and professionalism, the CEMI internship program builds relationships with and introduces students to Austin-based media companies. Between our speaker series, minor courses, and internship opportunities, CEMI provides UT students with all of the tools they need to enter the industry when they graduate—a truth evidenced by our graduates now returning to give their own GMISS and MIC presentations! Affiliates & Fellows As a research center, we are focused on exploring the topics of convergence, location, and access in the media, entertainment, and technology industries. We are engaging in partnerships with faculty members and graduate students across the university to develop and promote a research agenda consistent with our mission. We also regularly appoint CEMI research fellows and affiliates to assist with the development and expansion of CEMI’s initiatives. If you are interested in becoming involved as a fellow or affiliate, locating a subject matter expert, and/or engaging our affiliates and fellows on a research project, please contact our Program Director at cemi@austin.utexas.edu. Partners To advance our education, service, and research aims, we are partnering with media companies and professionals in the Austin area and beyond. These partners help us: to fund and facilitate initiatives to diversify student internship experiences; to develop and sponsor strategic engagements with Austin-based media industries; and to support industry-focused graduate research and professionalization opportunities. If you are interested in learning more about the internship program and/or partnering with us to place interns, please contact our Internship Director at RTFinternships@austin.utexas.edu. Also, if you are interested in partnering with and/or donating to CEMI, please contact our Program Director at cemi@austin.utexas.edu. Convergence exploring past, present, & future connections between the technology & media industries Location contributing to growing Austin—and Texas —as a vital hub for media & technology companies Access diversifying the media industries through experiences with & access to professionals Education training the next generation of media creators, executives, & industry researchers Spring 2022 CEMI Events Feb. 1 - Dr. Gordon Chang U.S.-China Relations: A Long View of History 8:45-9:30 am CT via Zoom Feb. 17 - Courtney Brannon Donoghue Female-Driven Filmmaking, Gendered Value, and the International Festival Marketplace 3:30-4:45 pm CT CMA 5.136 & Zoom Feb. 25 - Patrick Vonderau On the Boundaries of Digital Markets: The Case of Spotify 3:30-4:45 pm CT BMC 5.208 & Zoom April 1-3 - UT Student Screenwriting Festival Friday, April 1 (5:30–7:30pm) Saturday, April 2 (1:00-8:00pm) Sunday, April 3 (1:00-8:00pm) April 15 - Summer/Fall 2022 Internship Info Session Zoom Q&A Session for RTF Majors & Minors 5:00–6:00 pm CT Spring 2022 MIC Speakers March 25 - Hall Hood Senior Writer, Aspyr Media 2:00-3:00pm CT via Zoom April 1 - Gracie Arenas Strittmatter Technical Art Director, Electronic Arts (EA Sports) 2:00-3:00pm CT via Zoom April 8 - Morgan O'Brien, PhD Quality Assurance Tester, Aspyr Media 2:00-3:00pm CT via Zoom April 15 - Jesse Anderson Brand Manager for BioWare, EA 2:00-3:00pm CT in DMC 1.202 & via Zoom Important Links Media Industry Conversations MIC Podcast Global Media Industries Speaker Series (GMISS) Media & Entertainment Industries Minor Media Industries Internships FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram Subscribe to our newsletter 300 W. Dean Keeton (A0900) Austin, TX 78712-1069 Phone: 512-471-5775 Contacts FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu About Students Research & Centers Stories Events UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022