retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Weibo Instagram Linkedin flickr Reddit tumblr Twitter Vimeo Youtube Facebook medium Google Plus Skip to main content Open Menu MENU Moody College of Communication Search Search (required) FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Give About About Moody College Advisory Council Alumni Awards College Faculty College Leadership Dean's Ambassadors Dean's Welcome Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Facilities Global Engagement Moody College Family Network Resources for Faculty and Staff Support Moody College State of the College Address 2021 Visit Us Students Career Center Undergraduate Students Education Abroad Graduation Graduate Programs Prospective Students Student Stories UT in Los Angeles Program UT in New York Program Academics Degree in Communication & Leadership Department of Communication Studies Department of Radio-Television-Film Department of Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences School of Journalism and Media Stan Richards School of Advertising & Public Relations Honors Program Minors Research & Centers Research, Labs and Initiatives Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Life Center for Advancing Teaching Excellence Center for Entertainment and Media Industries Center for Health Communication Center for Media Engagement Center for Sports Communication & Media Global Sustainability Leadership Institute Institute for Media Innovation Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas Lang Stuttering Institute Latino Media Arts & Studies Program Speech, Debate and Forensics Speech and Hearing Center Technology and Information Policy Institute Texas Immersive Institute VOCES Oral History Center Wofford Denius UTLA Center for Entertainment & Media Studies Media Texas Moody Media Bevo Video Productions Burntx Cactus Yearbook East Austin Stories KUT 90.5/KUTX 98.9 KVRX Student Radio Reporting Texas Student Film Showcase Texas Student Media Texas Student TV Texas Travesty The Daily Texan The Drag Audio Events & Stories Events Stories Give to Moody College hero Give to Moody How Your Gift Helps Moody The Moody College of Communication relies on its many alumni and friends to maintain its stature as the largest, most diverse and finest communication program in the nation. We are proud of our alumni and friends who dedicate their time, vision and resources to ensure excellence in communication education year after year. Your gift to Moody College can unlock student potential, recruit world-class faculty, transform healthcare, and create a vibrant future for Texas and beyond. GIVE TODAY Support Menu Give to Moody Our Donors Support Moody Moody Capital Campaign Annual Scholarship Program Starting with You The What Starts Here campaign is the most ambitious fundraising effort in the history of our university and state. Your donation will help The University of Texas at Austin become the world’s leading public research institution, and a gift to Moody will change the future of communication through our teaching, research, service and practice. Hear Her Story I give to the College of Communication, both money and time, because this place totally transformed my life. Karen Elliott House, B.J. ’70, former managing editor, Wall Street Journal Your Gift Makes a Difference hero Converging Worlds. Creating Futures. Your contribution can help us meet these goals. $165M Campaign Goal $20M Student Support Goal $10M UTNY Endowment Goal Ways to Give Annual Fund Moody College of Communication’s success depends on the generosity of our entire community of supporters. We are proud of our alumni and friends who dedicate their time, vision and resources to ensure excellence in communication education year after year. With more than 40,000 alumni, even small gifts make a huge collective impact on Moody College. The amount of your gift is less important than including your alma mater as part of your annual charitable giving. Gifts to Moody College of Communication are tax-deductible to the extent allowed by law Endowment Our student support endowments provide direct financial aid to our students in the form of scholarships. Each endowed scholarship has the ability to award funds to multiple students per semester, providing meaningful assistance that allows awardees to focus on their studies and achieve the excellence that makes Moody College rank higher every year. Student support endowments exist in perpetuity. Each year a portion of the total income is reinvested so that Moody College can continue to make awards to deserving students. Estate Gifts Planned giving is a great way to benefit the Moody College of Communication. Many people only associate this type of philanthropy with wills, estates and legacies and may assume that the benefits flow in just one direction. However, a planned gift can be extremely flexible, include many tax advantages and provide you with reliable lifetime income, while ultimately directing valuable resources to Moody College Naming Opportunities By lending your name or the name of another individual, group, or business, you become a part of the legacy of Moody College of Communication. Named programs offer significant support for important Moody College initiatives, including the Dean's Innovation Fund. The college has a number of opportunities for naming buildings, outdoor structures and other facilities, as well as academic and major college units. GIVE TODAY We Can Help You Customize Your Gift to Moody Allison Dawson Chief Development Officer allison.dawson@austin.utexas.edu (512) 232-2807 John Brejot Director of Gift and Estate Planning john.brejot@austin.utexas.edu (512) 475-9160 Virginia Anderson Director of Development Initiatives vanderson@austin.utexas.edu (512) 471-276 Laura McKnight Director of Development, Arthur M. Blank Center laura.mcknight@austin.utexas.edu (512) 471-0609 Dannielle LaMonte Senior Development Specialist dannielle.lamonte@austin.utexas.edu (512) 232-5466 Lori Atkinson Director of Development lori.atkinson@austin.utexas.edu 512-471-0256 Aaron Pitman Development Associate 512-232-3635 Jake Wohleb Leadership Fellow jakewohleb@austin.utexas.edu Sam Provenzano Director of Development sprovenzano@austin.utexas.edu Priya Mohan Director of Development and Alumni Engagement, UTLA priya.mohan@austin.utexas.edu Corporate Matching Payroll Deductions for UT Employees Annual Scholarship Program Contact Info 512-232-6598 moodycollegealumni@austin.utexas.edu 300 West Dean Keeton Street, A0900 Austin, TX 78712 Subscribe to our newsletter 300 W. Dean Keeton (A0900) Austin, TX 78712-1069 Phone: 512-471-5775 Contacts FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu About Students Research & Centers Stories Events UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022