retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Weibo Instagram Linkedin flickr Reddit tumblr Twitter Vimeo Youtube Facebook medium Google Plus Skip to main content Open Menu MENU Moody College of Communication Search Search (required) FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Give About About Moody College Advisory Council Alumni Awards College Faculty College Leadership Dean's Ambassadors Dean's Welcome Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Facilities Global Engagement Moody College Family Network Resources for Faculty and Staff Support Moody College State of the College Address 2021 Visit Us Students Career Center Undergraduate Students Education Abroad Graduation Graduate Programs Prospective Students Student Stories UT in Los Angeles Program UT in New York Program Academics Degree in Communication & Leadership Department of Communication Studies Department of Radio-Television-Film Department of Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences School of Journalism and Media Stan Richards School of Advertising & Public Relations Honors Program Minors Research & Centers Research, Labs and Initiatives Annette Strauss Institute for Civic Life Center for Advancing Teaching Excellence Center for Entertainment and Media Industries Center for Health Communication Center for Media Engagement Center for Sports Communication & Media Global Sustainability Leadership Institute Institute for Media Innovation Knight Center for Journalism in the Americas Lang Stuttering Institute Latino Media Arts & Studies Program Speech, Debate and Forensics Speech and Hearing Center Technology and Information Policy Institute Texas Immersive Institute VOCES Oral History Center Wofford Denius UTLA Center for Entertainment & Media Studies Media Texas Moody Media Bevo Video Productions Burntx Cactus Yearbook East Austin Stories KUT 90.5/KUTX 98.9 KVRX Student Radio Reporting Texas Student Film Showcase Texas Student Media Texas Student TV Texas Travesty The Daily Texan The Drag Audio Events & Stories Events Stories From the 40 Acres to the Oscar Stage Academy Award-winning production sound mixer Mac Ruth reflects on his time at UT Mac Ruth remembers the first time he saw a film set: in the Hyde Park neighborhood in Austin when he was a Radio-Television-Film major at The University of Texas at Austin. It was a dark night, and he was drawn in by the bright lights and big equipment. A production sound mixer was sitting in the yard with their equipment. At the time, Ruth had been working with sound equipment at KTXB, the radio station where he volunteered. It wasn’t long after that night he took up the work professionally, and three decades later, last month, won his first Oscar. When asked how it felt to take home the most prestigious award in cinema: “I waver between loud pride and imposter syndrome,” he said. “It’s a great privilege.” It was Ruth’s fourth nomination by the Academy. The film that scored him the signature gold trophy: the epic “Dune,” which was the big winner Oscar night, taking home six awards. Ruth accepted in a traditional tuxedo with a black bow tie, but quickly after he left the stage, made a costume change, to a burnt orange bow tie, a nod to his alma mater. “I’ve always really held dearly the inspiration that I got at UT, the great people I met there, the inspiring teachers and mentors, the lifelong friends,” Ruth said. “And the humble kick out the door when it was time to go.” After graduation, Ruth had wanted to keep his job at famed music show Austin City Limits where he was an intern. But his coworkers encouraged him to shoot for bigger things. He moved to Los Angeles in the 90s to work on movies, and the work eventually took him to Budapest where he settled and has lived for the past 25 years. “One of the interesting things moving to a culture where at first you don’t speak the language is you go into a great dead quiet,” he said of the city in Hungary that straddles the Danube River. “It’s a great meditation to go into another culture you don’t know. It’s not noisy. You aren’t hearing everything. It gave me a chance to focus.” Ruth discovered a wonderful cinema culture in Budapest. “I dug in and gave myself time to study and work at my craft,” he said. “Now, I can’t count the number of movies I’ve done.” Among his most noted projects: “Hellboy II”, “The Martian”, “13 Hours,” “Blade Runner 2049,” and “Terminator: Dark Fate.” Mac Ruth on the set of "Dune." Ruth is what is known as a “production sound mixer,” which is part of a whole operation of people responsible for the finished sound you hear on a movie in the theater. For his part, Ruth captures the sound of the actors on set the day of shooting. For a production the size of “Dune,” that means he leads a whole department of people — from including boom operators and additional assistants. They work together to capture the dialogue and also the ambient, or “wild,” sounds on set. Then they mix the audio in real-time, balancing the volume and other sound quality to ensure it will work for the final product. After Ruth and his team capture that sound, it goes into a long stage of post-production, where the sound editor edits all the recorded sound and assembles it with sound effects, drawing on libraries of pre-recorded sounds and sometimes creating their own. Finally, it makes it to the re-recording mixer, who take all the elements, including the sound Ruth has recorded, ambient noise, effects and music, and incorporates it together into the final sound you hear on screen. It takes a village to make a movie and every person matters, Ruth said of the team. “It doesn’t get done if the water doesn’t get there.” Ruth’s advice to students: “Learn your craft and find your way.” That includes creating opportunities by building personal connections and meeting people. “It’s a very dynamic community there in Austin,” he said. “I give great credit to UT in the training it provides to create something that’s a little more special.” Mary Huber Communications Coordinator What We Leave Behind Communicating Love Through Food For more information, contact: Kathleen Mabley at 512-232-1417 Subscribe to our newsletter 300 W. Dean Keeton (A0900) Austin, TX 78712-1069 Phone: 512-471-5775 Contacts FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram LinkedinFind us on Linkedin TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu About Students Research & Centers Stories Events UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022