Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS Move to Canvas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Canvas Timeline KU Early Adopter Feedback Resources Select to follow link Instructor Resources Student Resources Contact Us FAQs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo Move to Canvas Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Follow the Move to Canvas The University of Kansas is moving to the Canvas learning management system. This site will provide information, timeline, progress and updates throughout the process. Project Background Blackboard has been the learning management system used on KU’s Lawrence and Edwards campuses for about 20 years. KU has regularly assessed other learning management systems, but determined that the benefits of changing did not outweigh the time, effort and disruption it would cause for our students and instructors. In 2020, Blackboard announced it will no longer support our current platform, so the effort and disruption of migrating to a new platform was inevitable whether we stayed with Blackboard or moved to Canvas or another learning management system. With that knowledge, KU’s Academic Systems Steering Committee (ASSC) assessed the options and unanimously recommended that KU adopt Canvas. Provost Bichelmeyer endorsed Committe's recommendation and directed KU Information Technology to begin working with campus partners on the transition to Canvas. Transition Timeline Visit the Timeline page for a semester-by-semester look at the transition. CANVAS.KU.EDU You can log in to Canvas today, start exploring, use a practice course, get comfortable, and begin adopting Canvas when you're ready. Log in to Canvas Log in to Canvas Questions about Canvas at KU? Contact the project team by clicking the button below. Contact Us Contact Us Price Computing Center 1001 Sunnyside Ave. Lawrence, KS 66045 canvas@ku.edu 785-864-2600 facebook instagram twitter youtube linkedin KU Information Technology KU IT Educational Technologists Center for Online & Distance Learning Instructure: Canvas Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.