Skip to content Georgia Institute of Technology Mechanical Properties Characterization Facility Menu Close Georgia Tech Home Campus Map Directory Offices Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Welcome to the Mechanical Properties Characterization Facility (MPCF) The MPCF is an interdisciplinary Institute for Materials facility that supports education and research programs related to process-structure-property relations in structural materials. Its principal activities are directed towards the measurement and modeling of the mechanical properties of engineering materials, primarily related to deformation, fatigue and fracture. The MPCF impacts directly on educational and research programs within the academic units of the Georgia Tech College of Engineering. In its role as an interdisciplinary umbrella organization for experimental research in mechanical properties of materials, the MPCF provides a degree of coordination of equipment usage, training and maintenance that would be much more costly to the sum of academic units in the conventional university setting of single investigator equipment. The MPCF is administered by the Director with input from the Associate Director. The MPCF participating faculty have a supporting and advisory role to highlight successes of MPCF research, to make recommendations on current operations, and to suggest future facility improvements and new acquisitions. The External Advisory Panel of the Institute for Materials also serves as the External Advisory Panel of the MPCF. Please note that the MPCF is a facility where experiments are primarily conducted by undergraduate, graduate, and post-doctoral researchers as a part of faculty-supervised research programs that usually last longer than 18 months. If you have an interest in (standard) contract testing, there are a variety of commercial testing laboratories that are well suited to provide timely, cost effective services. If you have need of a new (non-standard) testing strategy or are interested in developing a research relationship with Georgia Tech, please be sure to contact us to discuss your project. Left Side Menu Welcome Mission & Vision Educational Opportunities Usage & Policies Core Facilities and Equipment Partner Facilities Supporting CoE's Strategic Directions Computational Materials Science in the MPCF Participating Faculty Contact Information Main Contacts Richard W. Neu MPCF Director Christopher Muhlstein MPCF Associate Director James G. Collins Research Engineer Submit a Test Proposal Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Emergency Information Legal & Privacy Information Accessibility Accountability Accreditation Employment GT Login Standard Login © Georgia Institute of Technology