Apply Call: 888-388-7866 Request Info Apply 100% Online Master of Public Health Shape public health’s future at your alma mater Request Program Info First name * Last name * Email * Step 1 of 2 Next → Phone * ZIP code * Do you currently live within the United States? * Yes No Request Info ← Back We respect your privacy. Submitting this form constitutes your express written consent to receive emails, phone calls, text messages and/or other media from Brown University at the phone number(s) or email(s) received, including a wireless number(s). These emails, texts, calls or other media may be generated using automated technology. You may opt out of receiving any of these communications at any time. You are not required to provide this consent to receive services from Brown University. 100% Online courses 24 mos. Time to completion $5,000 Cost Per Course 12 Courses Required Return to Brown to champion solutions to today’s pressing challenges Join the next generation of global public health leaders by returning to Brown University to earn your Master of Public Health, now available 100% online. Developed to improve the health of populations around the world, Brown’s new online MPH allows you to increase your influence and positive impact on public health at an institution you already know and trust. In as little as 24 months, you can graduate ready to further your career, having increased your capacity to: Assess a population’s health and develop action-based interventions that address inequities based on data and analytical tools. Motivate, influence and enable people to contribute to the collective health of their families, communities and employers. Articulate, translate and convey evidence-based science and information to advance impactful public health causes. Request More Info Final Application Deadline: soon. Don’t miss out! Apply today to ensure you’re considered for admission and merit-based scholarships. Apply Now Prepare to improve the health of all populations Built for busy adults At Brown, we’ve designed our 100% online MPH to help a wider variety of students prepare for public health leadership roles. This program is especially ideal for: Professionals with 2+ years of work experience seeking a more impactful career path. Current public health workers who want to increase their influence on systems, policies and practices. Brown alumni from around the world who desire a prestigious public health education without having to relocate to study on-campus. Affirming accessibility and equity The “rules” of public health have changed drastically as the COVID-19 pandemic has brought new light to enduring healthcare inequities worldwide. As a student in Brown’s 100% online MPH program, you’ll gain the knowledge and global perspective needed to effect positive, lasting change on a local, national and international scale. Examine how historic and present-day power relations produce health inequities Evaluate policies for their impact on public health and health equity Advocate for political, social, or economic policies and programs to improve health in diverse populations Rigorous, career-forward courses To complete Brown’s 100% online MPH program, you must complete 12 courses for a total of 48 credit hours. Additionally, you will have a 145-hour practicum experience to apply your newly strengthened skills in a real-world public health setting. Online Master of Public Health Curriculum: Generalist Concentration Semester 1 GPHP 2000: Using Data to Make Public Health Decisions I (Biostatistics) GPHP 2800: Leadership in Public Health I Semester 2 GPHP 2010: Using Data to Make Public Health Decisions II (Epidemiology) GPHP 2850: Public Health Communications Semester 3 GPHP 2020: Using Data to Make Public Health Decisions III (Survey & Qualitative Methods) GPHP 2400: Health Care Systems & Policy Semester 4 GPHP 2300: Social Determinants of Health/Equity in Public Health GPHP 2310: Interventions at the Local, National and Global Scale Semester 5 GPHP 2410: Comparative Health Care Systems GPHP 2320: Evaluations of Public Health Programs Semester 6 GPHP 2810: Leadership in Public Health II GPHP 2900: Integrative Learning Experience (ILE) Get More Course Info World-class courses, accessible anywhere in the world Direct access to internationally renowned faculty As an online MPH student, you’ll reunite with Brown’s expert faculty members, who will help you develop knowledge and skills through personal interaction and a robust MPH curriculum. Study current public health issues with which faculty have expertise, such as COVID-19, the opioid crisis and inequities in healthcare access and outcomes. Benefit from our faculty’s ongoing work thanks to our $64 million in external funding for cutting-edge research and innovative interventions — a figure that places Brown in the Top 5 public health schools for NIH funding. Convenient curriculum delivery As you progress through your 100% online MPH program, you’ll complete most of your coursework asynchronously — on your own time and schedule — while also taking part in weekly online sessions with classmates, instructors and special guests. Watch and interact with faculty-created interactive multimedia, faculty-recorded lectures and demonstrations, expert/guest lecture videos, and public health cases. Online class sessions once each week help you connect with your MPH classmates while benefiting from live discussion and practice with your instructors. Case-based coursework, contemporary application In each online MPH course, you’ll examine specific, real-world public health scenarios — strengthening your problem-solving, information-gathering, and reasoning skills as you generate solutions to current health issues. Other benefits you can enjoy through case-based learning include: Tapping into the expertise of Brown faculty who actively address these issues in their life and work. Enhance your own point of view through the distinct perspectives and insights gained from your diverse classmates. Strengthen your sense of community through regular collaboration — no matter where you’re physically located. Learn More About Our Online Approach Recognized for quality The Brown University School of Public Health is accredited by the Council on Education in Public Health (CEPH). Like all CEPH-accredited programs, Brown’s 100% online MPH will teach and assess the standard 22 foundational competencies of public health, as well as concentration-specific competencies in data analysis, leadership, and communication. Only by diversifying the ways we teach will we be able to make great public health available to all. That’s why we’re so excited to be launching Brown’s first online-only master’s degree, accessible to adult learners from across the world. - Dr. Megan Ranney, Academic Dean, Brown School of Public Health Get Started Today! Request Program Info First name * Last name * Email * Step 1 of 2 Next → Phone * ZIP code * Do you currently live within the United States? * Yes No Request Info ← Back We respect your privacy. Submitting this form constitutes your express written consent to receive emails, phone calls, text messages and/or other media from Brown University at the phone number(s) or email(s) received, including a wireless number(s). These emails, texts, calls or other media may be generated using automated technology. You may opt out of receiving any of these communications at any time. You are not required to provide this consent to receive services from Brown University. OR Start Your Application Start your application → Quick and easy. Get started in minutes! Brown University Providence RI 02912 888-388-7866 BrownEnrollmentRetention@mph.online.brown.edu © 2022 Brown University. All rights reserved. × Final Application Deadline is soon. Apply now! Apply × [content.title] [content.description] Sign Up