Apply Online MPH Tuition and Financial Aid About 888-388-7866 Call: 888-388-7866 Request Info Apply Master of Public Health Shape the future of public health Request Program Info First name * Last name * Email * Step 1 of 2 Next → Phone * ZIP code * Do you currently live within the United States? * Yes No Request Info ← Back We respect your privacy. Submitting this form constitutes your express written consent to receive emails, phone calls, text messages and/or other media from Brown University at the phone number(s) or email(s) received, including a wireless number(s). These emails, texts, calls or other media may be generated using automated technology. You may opt out of receiving any of these communications at any time. You are not required to provide this consent to receive services from Brown University. 100% Online courses 24 months Minimum Time to Complete $5,000 Cost Per Course 12 Courses Required Champion solutions to today’s pressing challenges Receive unparalleled preparation to join the next generation of global public health leaders by earning your Master of Public Health 100% online from Brown University. Developed particularly for working professionals around the world, Brown’s online MPH allows you to increase your influence and positive impact on public health while staying in your community. In as little as 24 months, you can graduate ready to further your career, having increased your capacity to: Assess a population’s health and develop action-based interventions based on data and analytical tools. Motivate, influence and enable others to contribute to the collective health of their families, communities and employers. Articulate, translate and convey evidence-based science and information to advance public health causes. Request Program Info Final Application Deadline: soon. Don’t miss out! Apply today to ensure you’re considered for admission and merit-based scholarships. Apply Now Developing tomorrow’s global public health leaders Built for busy adults At Brown, we’ve designed our 100% online MPH to help a wider variety of students prepare for public health leadership roles. This program is especially ideal for: Professionals with 2+ years of work experience seeking a more impactful career path. Current public health workers who want to increase their influence on systems, policies and practices. International students who desire a prestigious public health education without having to relocate to the United States. Affirming accessibility and equity The “rules” of public health have changed drastically as the COVID-19 pandemic has brought new light to enduring healthcare inequities worldwide. As a student in Brown’s 100% online MPH program, you’ll gain the knowledge and global perspective needed to effect positive, lasting change on a local, national and international scale. Examine how historic and present-day power relations produce health inequities Evaluate policies for their impact on public health and health equity Advocate for political, social, or economic policies and programs to improve health in diverse populations Rigorous, career-forward courses To complete Brown’s 100% online MPH program, you must complete 12 courses for a total of 48 credit hours. Additionally, you will have a 145-hour practicum experience to apply your newly strengthened skills in a real-world public health setting. Online Master of Public Health Curriculum: Generalist Concentration Semester 1 GPHP 2000: Using Data to Make Public Health Decisions I (Biostatistics) GPHP 2800: Leadership in Public Health I Semester 2 GPHP 2010: Using Data to Make Public Health Decisions II (Epidemiology) GPHP 2850: Public Health Communications Semester 3 GPHP 2020: Using Data to Make Public Health Decisions III (Survey & Qualitative Methods) GPHP 2400: Health Care Systems & Policy Semester 4 GPHP 2300: Social Determinants of Health/Equity in Public Health GPHP 2310: Interventions at the Local, National and Global Scale Semester 5 GPHP 2410: Comparative Health Care Systems GPHP 2320: Evaluations of Public Health Programs Semester 6 GPHP 2810: Leadership in Public Health II GPHP 2900: Integrative Learning Experience (ILE) Get More Course Info World-class courses, accessible anywhere in the world Direct access to internationally renowned faculty Brown is home of some of the world’s foremost experts on addiction, aging, environmental health, HIV/AIDS, and other critical public health issues. As an online MPH student, these experts serve as your instructors — helping you develop knowledge and skills through personal interaction and a robust curriculum they’ve created. Study current public health issues with which faculty have expertise, such as COVID-19, the opioid crisis and inequities in healthcare access and outcomes. Benefit from our faculty’s ongoing work thanks to our $64 million in external funding for cutting-edge research and innovative interventions — a figure that places Brown in the Top 5 public health schools for NIH funding. Convenient curriculum delivery As you progress through your 100% online MPH program, you’ll complete most of your coursework asynchronously — on your own time and schedule — while also taking part in weekly online sessions with classmates, instructors and special guests. Watch and interact with faculty-created interactive multimedia, faculty-recorded lectures and demonstrations, expert/guest lecture videos, and public health cases. Online class sessions once each week help you connect with your MPH classmates while benefiting from live discussion and practice with your instructors. Case-based coursework, contemporary application In each online MPH course, you’ll examine specific, real-world public health scenarios — strengthening your problem-solving, information-gathering, and reasoning skills as you generate solutions to current health issues. Other benefits you can enjoy through case-based learning include: Tapping into the expertise of Brown faculty who actively address these issues in their life and work. Enhance your own point of view through the distinct perspectives and insights gained from your diverse classmates. Strengthen your sense of community through regular collaboration — no matter where you’re physically located. Learn More About Our Online Approach Why Brown for your online MPH? Greater access to one of the world’s top universities With the launch of the 100% online MPH program, Brown offers more working professionals and international students the opportunity to solve critical public health challenges through its distinctive, world-class teaching approach. In 2021 alone, Brown ranked: No. 6 nationally and No. 64 globally by The Wall Street Journal and Times Higher Education No. 14 nationally by U.S. News and World Report No. 19 in the U.S. and No. 60 globally in the QS World University Rankings Learn more about Brown’s mission and vision → Recognized for quality The Brown University School of Public Health is accredited by the Council on Education in Public Health (CEPH). Like all CEPH-accredited programs, Brown’s 100% online MPH will teach and assess the standard 22 foundational competencies of public health, as well as concentration-specific competencies in data analysis, leadership, and communication. At Brown, everyone wants you to succeed. Everyone is doing their very best to succeed and putting in the effort but without competitive negativity. I just felt really at home here. - Enyonam Odoom, Brown MPH Graduate Get Started Today! Request Program Info First name * Last name * Email * Step 1 of 2 Next → Phone * ZIP code * Do you currently live within the United States? * Yes No Request Info ← Back We respect your privacy. Submitting this form constitutes your express written consent to receive emails, phone calls, text messages and/or other media from Brown University at the phone number(s) or email(s) received, including a wireless number(s). These emails, texts, calls or other media may be generated using automated technology. You may opt out of receiving any of these communications at any time. You are not required to provide this consent to receive services from Brown University. OR Start Your Application Start your application → Quick and easy. Get started in minutes! Brown University Providence RI 02912 888-388-7866 BrownEnrollmentRetention@mph.online.brown.edu Online MPH → About Brown → Tuition and Financial Aid → Request Information → Privacy Policy → © 2022 Brown University. All rights reserved. × Final Application Deadline is soon. Apply now! Apply × [content.title] [content.description] Sign Up