Jump to Navigation About Events Faculty & Staff Lessons Ensembles Jazz Barnard Music News Auditions Opportunities Practicing FAQ Current Students Contact Support the Program Applying to Columbia? Applying to Columbia? Information for Prospective Undergraduate Students (Applicants to Columbia College, Columbia School of General Studies, Barnard College, SEAS with Music Minor, CU/Juilliard Joint Programs). If you are (or your child is) considering applying to Columbia College, Barnard College, the Columbia School of General Studies, or the Fu School of Engineering as an undergraduate, and you have questions about opportunities for undergraduate musicians at Columbia, our FAQ page is intended to help you find the answers you need. There are few subjects about which the Department gets more inquiries. Read our Frequently Asked Questions Admissions Office Representative for Applicants to Columbia College Interested in Music Office of Undergraduate Admissions General Inquiries: ugrad-ask [at] columbia.edu Office of Admissions (undergraduates): rmt2138 [at] columbia.edu Phone: 212-854-2522 Office Address: 212 Hamilton Hall If you are considering applying to Columbia College and have a specific interest in music (whether as a potential major or not), please contact the College Admissions Office with all initial inquiries. The Music Department's office staff and faculty members cannot advise or answer questions on the specifics of the admissions process, and we do not interview or audition College applicants in person. We are happy to answer questions about our curriculum and the performance opportunities we provide. Contact Admissions: ugrad-ask [at] columbia.edu Facebook Twitter Join The Email List All Materials ©2022 The Department of Music at Columbia University, unless otherwise marked. All rights reserved. Read the University copyright policy. site by Square Candy Design Music Performance Program Sitemap About Events Faculty & Staff Lessons Ensembles Jazz Barnard Music News Auditions Opportunities Practicing FAQ Current Students Contact Support the Program Applying to Columbia? Columbia Home Music Dept Home Search form Search