Jump to Navigation About Events Faculty & Staff Lessons Ensembles Jazz Barnard Music News Auditions Opportunities Practicing FAQ Current Students Contact Support the Program Applying to Columbia? News May 2022 Newsletter posted May 23, 2022 Columbia Composers Concert Faculty Mid-Day Music Community Jazz MPP Achievements Our final newsletter of the academic year includes an interview of graduating senior Maude Latour, updates from our associates, a Spring 2022 event recap, and our best wishes to the graduating Class of 2022. more... Read more about May 2022 Newsletter Magdalena Stern-Baczewska Premieres Charles Fox's Fantaisie for Clarinet, Piano, and Orchestra posted May 11, 2022 Concert Faculty MPP Achievements Magdalena Stern-Baczewska (Director, MPP), together with clarinetist Carol McGonnel and Orchestre de Chambre du Conservatoire Américain de Fontainebleau, gave a U.S. premiere of Charles Fox's Fantaisie for Clarinet, Piano, and Orchestra, with the composer at the podium. more... Read more about Magdalena Stern-Baczewska Premieres Charles Fox's Fantaisie for Clarinet, Piano, and Orchestra United in Peace, a Concert in Solidarity with Ukraine, Presented by the MPP posted May 11, 2022 Concert Community MPP On Friday, May 6th, the Columbia University Music Performance Program presented United for Peace, a concert in solidarity with Ukraine, in St. Paul's Chapel, featuring the faculty artists of the Music Performance Program, the Louis Armstrong Jazz Performance Program, and Barnard College. more... Read more about United in Peace, a Concert in Solidarity with Ukraine, Presented by the MPP April 2022 Newsletter posted Apr 21, 2022 Concert Faculty Mid-Day Music Jazz MPP The Spring semester in the MPP has been brimming with activity. Our student musicians recently appeared in a sold-out concert at Carnegie Hall's Weill Recital Hall, treating the audience to exhilarating and thoughtfully prepared performances. We are full of gratitude for our terrific Music Associates, who have mentored the MPP students with true dedication. more... Read more about April 2022 Newsletter March 2022 Newsletter posted Mar 8, 2022 Dear Friends of the Music Performance Program, During these very turbulent times, we turn to music in search of solace. We hope you will join us this spring, online or in person, and help our students celebrate their artistry and achievements. In this newsletter you will find the details of our upcoming March events, as well as a sneak peek of our April highlights, including our long-awaited gala at Carnegie Hall's Weill Recital Hall. As usual, we also invite you to meet one of our extraordinary students, Stephanie Chow. Thank you for your continued interest and support. On behalf of the MPP team, Magdalena Stern-Baczewska more... Read more about March 2022 Newsletter February 2022 Newsletter posted Mar 8, 2022 Dear Friends of the Music Performance Program, We hope that 2022 has already brought hope and good news to you all. It is our pleasure to announce an update in Columbia University’s policy that allows us to invite you all to attend our upcoming Spring events in person. While we will continue to live stream our events via Facebook, guests who are not Columbia affiliates are now invited to attend MPP concerts in person, with a proof of vaccination and a mask. If you would like to see what you missed last semester, we invite you to visit our brand new YouTube channel. Please mark your calendars and join us for Mid-Day Music at Maison Française on February 11 and 25, as well as Mid-Day Jazz at Faculty House on February 18. We look forward to seeing you there! Magdalena Stern-Baczewska more... Read more about February 2022 Newsletter Winter 2021 Newsletter posted Jan 25, 2022 MPP This semester, our students have made music with particular enthusiasm and passion, and their Columbia friends have come in unprecedented numbers to support them. We had a full house at each concert, and all events were received with great warmth and fervor. The MPP music associates, who have prepared the ensembles for their performances deserve a special word of gratitude for their passion, dedication, and creativity. We have continued to host online events featuring guest artists, among them masterclasses with cellist Wendy Sutter and violinist Richard Lin. The Louis Armstrong Jazz Performance Program, under the new leadership of Ole Mathisen, presented masterclasses with jazz percussionist Clarence Penn and saxophonist Miguel Zenon. This has also been a semester of new beginnings: we have welcomed new members of the MPP community; Music Associates: Elizabeth Brown (shakuhachi), Yumi Kurosawa (koto), David Krauss (trumpet), Ingrid Laubrock (jazz saxophone), and our new Assistant to Director, Chelsea Wimmer. We are also staying in touch with MPP alumni and are happy to share their latest news below. Grateful for your continued interest and support, we wish you a peaceful and restorative Holiday season. On behalf of all of us in the MPP, Magdalena Stern-Baczewska more... Read more about Winter 2021 Newsletter November 2021 Newsletter posted Jan 25, 2022 MPP Dear Friends of the Music Performance Program, Now that life on Columbia campus seems to have returned to its full swing, we are pleased to share the November update with you. more... Read more about November 2021 Newsletter 20 Years of Jazz Performance at Columbia posted Oct 14, 2021 Jazz MPP The Louis Armstrong Jazz Performance Program is celebrating its twenty year anniversary with a feature in Columbia Magazine. more... Read more about 20 Years of Jazz Performance at Columbia Chelsea Wimmer posted Oct 12, 2021 Welcome our newest staff member, Chelsea Wimmer! more... Read more about Chelsea Wimmer October 2021 Newsletter posted Sep 22, 2021 The pandemic has reminded us that music is the most impactful when experienced together, in one room, as a community. After eighteen long months we are thrilled to resume making music on campus, in person. The student musicians accepted into the program this year are truly terrific, and their excitement to make music together again is palpable. In this month's newsletter you will learn about the latest projects of our students, alumni, and faculty. You will meet our student Henry Paul, who shares how his approach to music has changed since the start of the pandemic. more... Read more about October 2021 Newsletter Congratulations to Ole Mathisen who was appointed the Director of the Louis Armstrong Jazz Performance Program! posted Jul 29, 2021 Ole Mathisen has been appointed the Director of the Louis Armstrong Jazz Performance Program. more... Read more about Congratulations to Ole Mathisen who was appointed the Director of the Louis Armstrong Jazz Performance Program! SPRING 2021 NEWSLETTER posted May 5, 2021 In this last newsletter of the semester we share the highlights of our student performances, lovingly put together from the distance. We also look back at the events we shared with you this past Spring, including the virtual masterclass with New York Philharmonic’s Rebecca Young, and jazz artists Matt Garrison, Miguel Zenon, and Ingrid Jensen. As we celebrate new beginnings through the partnership with Emeritus Professors in Columbia groups (EPIC), we also bid a final farewell to MPP’s long-time music associate and a world-renowned harpsichordist, Kenneth Cooper. Together with the graduating class of 2021, we celebrate their achievements and wish them continued success in the new chapter of their lives. more... Read more about SPRING 2021 NEWSLETTER Magdalena Stern-Baczewska Releases New Solo Album "Mozart" posted May 3, 2021 Faculty Musicianship Achievements Magdalena Stern-Baczewska has released a new solo album featuring piano music by W. A. Mozart. more... Read more about Magdalena Stern-Baczewska Releases New Solo Album "Mozart" Magdalena Stern-Baczewska Receives Culture, Science, and Education Initiative Grant from Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Republic of Poland posted Apr 9, 2021 Faculty MPP Achievements Magdalena Stern-Baczewska has received the Culture, Science and Education Initiative Grant from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Poland. more... Read more about Magdalena Stern-Baczewska Receives Culture, Science, and Education Initiative Grant from Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Republic of Poland MARCH 2021 NEWSLETTER posted Mar 4, 2021 Our March offering includes two masterclasses: MacArthur and Guggenheim Fellow Miguel Zenon on March 17 and New York Philharmonic's Rebecca Young, on March 31.The "Meet our Students" column features two students: Arya Rao, CC '22 and Nathan Farrell, CC '21. We are also thrilled to announce MPP's new partnership with EPIC: Emeritus Professors in Columbia, a professional and social fellowship of retired professors, researchers, and administrators. The inaugural event of this collaboration features Vincent Le, CC '21 in a virtual performance and discussion with the EPIC members. more... Read more about MARCH 2021 NEWSLETTER FEBRUARY 2021 NEWSLETTER posted Feb 12, 2021 Inside the February MPP newsletter you will find the profile of pianist Heather Chang, a Columbia College senior majoring in Neuroscience. Although in-person events are still suspended, we presented via Zoom an Ingrid Jensen jazz masterclass, and the student celebration of the Chinese New Year. more... Read more about FEBRUARY 2021 NEWSLETTER DECEMBER 2020 NEWSLETTER posted Dec 21, 2020 The MPP students yet again demonstrated fearlessness, intelligence, creativity, positive attitude, and team spirit. In this newsletter you will learn about the most recent activities of our faculty, students and alumni. We invite you to watch the videos of the selected projects our students put together with their instructors. Grateful for your attention and support, on behalf of all of us in the MPP we wish you a healthy and peaceful holiday season. more... Read more about DECEMBER 2020 NEWSLETTER Pages 1 2 3 4 5 next › last » Facebook Twitter Join The Email List All Materials ©2022 The Department of Music at Columbia University, unless otherwise marked. All rights reserved. Read the University copyright policy. site by Square Candy Design Music Performance Program Sitemap About Events Faculty & Staff Lessons Ensembles Jazz Barnard Music News Auditions Opportunities Practicing FAQ Current Students Contact Support the Program Applying to Columbia? Columbia Home Music Dept Home Search form Search