Jump to Navigation About Events Faculty & Staff Lessons Ensembles Jazz Barnard Music News Auditions Opportunities Practicing FAQ Current Students Contact Support the Program Applying to Columbia? Auditions Auditions for the fall 2022 semester will be held September 5th-9th Stay Tuned for more information Jazz Signups Classical Signups *classical lessons and ensembles Admission to the MPP is based on the level of performance skill demonstrated in the audition, and the availability of openings in the various performing areas. Requirements: Classical (for those auditioning for lessons* and ensembles, including Master Class): two contrasting pieces CUO: one short solo work Jazz: two jazz standards Piano: * To sign up for piano lessons, please visit 618 Dodge on January 18th and 19th between 10am - 2pm Gagaku Ensemble: **For the Gagaku Ensemble Please contact Alicia "Lish" Lindsey, al4166 [at] columbia.edu. Meets on Thursdays in 112 Dodge Hall from 6-7:30pm HOGAKU Ensembles: **For Koto, please contact Yumi Kurosawa, yk2971 [at] columbia.edu Koto meets on Thursdays in 112 Dodge Hall from 3-4:30pm **For Shakuhachi, please email Elizabeth Brown, eb3442 [at] columbia.edu Shakuhachi meets on Thursdays in 112 Dodge Hall from 4:30-6pm Klezmer Ensemble The Klezmer ensemble will return in the Fall of 2022. ARAB Music Ensemble: Please email instructor, Taoufik Ben-Amor, tb46 [at] columbia.edu Class meets on Fridays in 814 Dodge Hall at 10am Bluegrass Ensemble: Please email instructor James Kerr, jlk2001 [at] columbia.edu BRazilian ENSEMBLE: Please sign up for an audition for the jazz program if you are interested in joining the Brazilian ensemble Collegium Musicum: The 2021-2022 director of Collegium Musicum is PhD student Justin Gregg. His email is jtg2141 [at] columbia.edu. Rehearsals for Spring semester will take place on Monday evenings, 7:30 - 9:30pm, beginning on Jan 24th. Additional information: Only one audition is needed for chamber ensembles and lessons. Jazz Ensembles and Columbia University Orchestra (CUO) require a separate audition. Registration for lessons and ensembles will be available only to students who have been admitted to MPP through an audition. If you are interested in taking music lessons for credit, joining an MPP classical or jazz ensemble, or joining CUO, you must audition for placement. NOTE: Please make sure you are under the credit limit when you are auditioning / registering. You won't be eligible to participate in the MPP otherwise. Auditions are held only for enrolled undergraduates at Columbia University. Prospective students interested in applying to Columbia College, the Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science, Barnard College, or the School of General Studies should visit our FAQ. Barnard Chorus and Voice Auditions Audition dates and times: Chorus and Chamber Singer auditions: Tuesday, January 12, 2021. 6-9pm. on Zoom ID: 938-209-6398 Voice auditions for solo lessons and voice classes: Thursday, January 14, 2021. 6-10pm, Zoom ID: 938-209-6398 Lessons ELIGIBLE INSTRUMENTS All jazz instruments Strings Winds Brass Classical Percussion Harp, organ, classical saxophone, harpsichord (please read ADDITIONAL AUDITIONS) Piano (please read CLASSICAL PIANO LESSONS) FYI Private instruction and ensembles require only one audition. Students interested in both jazz and classical lessons/ensembles will need to audition for both separately. Students taking private instruction receive six hours of lessons each semester. Students must register and will receive one credit and a pass/fail grade each semester. No end-of-semester performance is required. There is a $300 per semester lesson fee for all students - the second-lowest rate among our peer institutions. Each student will receive six (6) hours of lessons each semester. SIGN-UP FOR AN AUDITION Auditions for the 2021-2022 year will be live in-person. For classical, they will be on Tuesday, September 14th from 2:00pm-7:00pm and Thursday September 16th from 12:00-8:00pm. For jazz, they will be on Wednesday, September 15th from 11:00am-9:00pm. For vocal jazz, they will be on September 17th from 11:00am-3:00pm. *Please see specific tabs on Audition page to sign up. Online audition sign-up will be available in late AUGUST. THE DAY OF Arrive at least 10 minutes prior to your scheduled time to fill out the audition form, tune, and organize your scores. AUDITION REPERTOIRE Classical private instruction: two contrasting pieces or movements from solo repertoire. Jazz private instruction: Instrumentalists should prepare two jazz standards (a rhythm section will be provided to accompany auditions). You will also be asked to demonstrate your sight reading and improvisational skills. Vocalists should prepare two selections to show interpretative abilities (improvisation optional). Please provide a clear lead sheet with chord changes for the accompanist (a pianist is provided). NEXT STEPS You will receive an email regarding placement, registration, and instructor information or if we are not able to place you with an instructor or ensemble, you will be notified and may be placed on the wait list. If you are placed with an instructor for lessons, you will need to contact your instructor and set up a mutually agreeable time to meet during the semester. Your instructor will help you choose repertoire and establish a daily practice routine. Participation in the MPP is a year-long commitment. All students re-audition each Fall (no auditions are held in the Spring semester). Chamber Ensembles FYI Private instruction and ensembles require only one audition. Students interested in participating in both jazz and classical lessons/ensembles will need to audition for both separately. Chamber ensembles receive 12 hours of coaching per semester. Students receive one credit and a letter grade per semester. Students who pass their audition will be placed in a group and expected to meet for rehearsals once a week outside of coachings. An end-of-semester performance is required. There are no additional fees for your participation in a chamber ensemble. Multiple ensembles are possible if you are so interested - please note that on your audition form. SIGN UP FOR AN AUDITION Auditions for the 2021-2022 year will be live in-person on Tuesday, September 14th from 2:00pm-7:00pm and Thursday September 16th from 12:00-8:00pm. *Please see specific tabs on Audition page to sign up. Online audition sign up will be available in late August. THE DAY OF Arrive at least 10 minutes prior to your scheduled time to fill out the audition form, tune, and organize your scores. Sign up online in August for a slot. AUDITION REPERTOIRE Please prepare two contrasting pieces or movements from solo repertoire. You will also be asked to sight-read a short music selection. NEXT STEPS You will receive an email regarding placement, registration, and instructor information. If we are not able to place you with an instructor or ensemble, you will be notified and may be placed on the waitlist. You will need to contact your instructor and other members of the ensemble to set up a mutually agreeable time to meet during the semester. Participation in the MPP is a year-long commitment. All students must re-audition each Fall (no auditions are held in the Spring semester). Jazz Ensembles FYI Private instruction and ensembles require only one audition. Students interested in participating in both jazz and classical lessons/ensembles will need to play in separate auditions to be considered for both. Jazz Ensembles meet weekly for 90-minute coaching sessions. Students receive one credit and a letter grade each semester. Registration is required. A final performance at the end of the semester is required. SIGN-UP FOR AN AUDITION Auditions are during the first week of classes. Auditions for the 2021-2022 year will be live in-person. For instrumental jazz, they will be on Wednesday, September 15th from 11:00am-9:00pm. For vocal jazz, they will be on September 17th from 11:00am-3:00pm. *Please see specific tabs on Audition page to sign up. THE DAY OF Arrive at least 10 minutes prior to your scheduled time to fill out the audition form, tune, and organize your scores. Instrumentalists should prepare two jazz standards (a rhythm section will be provided to accompany auditions). You will also be asked to demonstrate your sight reading and improvisational skills. Vocalists should prepare two selections to show interpretative abilities (improvisation optional). Please provide a clear lead sheet with chord changes for the accompanist (a pianist is provided). NEXT STEPS You will receive an email regarding placement, registration, and instructor information. If we are not able to place you with an instructor or ensemble, you will be notified and may be placed on the waitlist. If you are placed with an instructor for lessons, you will need to set up a mutually agreeable time to meet during the semester. Your instructor will help you choose repertoire and establish a daily practice routine. Participation in the MPP is a year-long commitment. All students re-audition each Fall (no auditions are held in the Spring semester). The Columbia University Orchestra (CUO) Auditions are required for placement in the Columbia University Orchestra (CUO). Auditions for the 2021-2022 year will take place live in-person on Wednesday, September 15th from 12:00-8:00pm, Thursday, September 16th from 2:30-8:30pm, and Friday, September 17th from 12:00-8:00pm. CUO Auditions information Sign up online for an audition. You must audition separately for the CUO even if you are also auditioning for chamber music, lessons, or jazz ensembles. Please prepare a short solo piece. World Music Ensembles WORLD MUSIC ENSEMBLES To audition, please contact the specific instructor. Hogaku (Japanese Early Modern Salon Music): medievaljapan [at] columbia.edu Gagaku (Japanese Court and Sacred Music): medievaljapan [at] columbia.edu Bluegrass Ensemble: James Kerr, jlk2001 [at] columbia.edu Klezmer Band: Jeff Warshauer, jfw2102 [at] columbia.edu Classical Piano lessons (ALL LEVELS) CLASSICAL PIANO LESSONS Placement in piano lessons requires an interview. * To sign up for piano lessons for Spring 2022, please visit 618 Dodge on January 18th and January 19th, 2022 between 10:00AM-2:00PM For piano chamber music, a separate audition is required. Please see CHAMBER ENSEMBLES for audition requirements and online sign up. Additional Auditions ADDITIONAL AUDITIONS If you play harp, organ or harpsichord please contact the instructor directly to set up an audition during the first week of classes. (Audition IS required) Harp: June Han, jyh24 [at] columbia.edu Harpsichord: Organ: Paul-Martin Maki, pmmaki [at] verizon.net The Dolan Prize THE DOLAN PRIZE This merit- and need-based scholarship award funds for students who wish to study an instrument that Columbia does not offer or with a teacher who is not a Columbia Music Associate. Auditions are required and take place during the first week of classes. Auditions for the Dolan Prize take place at the same time as our regular MPP auditions during the first week of classes. Audition Requirements: Sealed letter of recommendation from your instructor with details of their lesson fee per hour. Letters may be brought to the audition or to Dr. Magdalena Stern-Baczewska's office in 618 Dodge by the end of the change-of-program-period. Prepare two contrasting pieces or movements to showcase your technical and musical abilities. Priority is given to Columbia College students who wish to study an instrument not represented at the College. You should already have studied with this teacher for 6 months prior to auditioning for the Dolan Prize. You must be a participant of the Music Performance Program (one year commitment) in order to receive funding. Facebook Twitter Join The Email List All Materials ©2022 The Department of Music at Columbia University, unless otherwise marked. All rights reserved. Read the University copyright policy. site by Square Candy Design Music Performance Program Sitemap About Events Faculty & Staff Lessons Ensembles Jazz Barnard Music News Auditions Opportunities Practicing FAQ Current Students Contact Support the Program Applying to Columbia? Columbia Home Music Dept Home Search form Search