Jump to Navigation About Events Faculty & Staff Lessons Ensembles Jazz Barnard Music News Auditions Opportunities Practicing FAQ Current Students Contact Support the Program Applying to Columbia? Opportunities In addition to the many opportunities offered by the Columbia University Music Performance Program, there are also various outside-of-MPP opportunities offered through our page. Check back regularly for the latest listings. We also encourage you to follow us on Facebook to stay informed about other performance opportunities. The Dolan Prize This merit scholarship awards funds to Columbia students who wish to study an instrument not offered on our current roster. Students can also use this award to study with a teacher who is not a Columbia Music Associate. Auditions for the Dolan Prize occur during the chamber music/lesson auditions during the first week of classes. Audition Requirements: Email a letter of recommendation directly from your instructor with details of their lesson fee per hour due by the end of the change-of-program-period to Dr. Stern-Baczewska, mb3713 [at] columbia.edu Prepare two contrasting pieces or movements to showcase your technical and musical abilities. Priority is given to Columbia College students who wish to study an instrument not represented at the College. You should already have studied with this teacher for 6 months prior to auditioning for the Dolan Prize. You must be a participant of the Music Performance Program (one year commitment) in order to receive funding. AUDITION SIGN UPS WILL BE AVAILABLE IN LATE AUGUST 2021 Audition Information Richard and Brooke Kamin Rapaport Summer Music Performance Fellowship Thanks to the generosity of Columbia College alumnus Richard Rapaport, students can receive funding to study at a summer music festival of their choice! Auditions are open only to Columbia College (Barnard, GS, and SEAS not eligible) instrumentalists, vocalists, composers, and conductors. PRIORITY GIVEN to those who have played an active role in the Music Performance Program. Students registered in the Undergraduate Composition class in the Fall or Spring semester of the current academic year are also eligible. Both jazz and classical musicians are encouraged to audition. THIS YEAR ONLY we are allowing graduating seniors to apply, due to covid restrictions the past two years. Next year applications will only be open to freshmen, sophomores, and juniors. *FOR 2022, FILL OUT THIS FORM APPLICATIONS ARE DUE ON MONDAY, APRIL 18TH, 2022 AT 4:59PM Audition Requirements Prepare two contrasting works or movements to showcase your technical and music abilities. Any festival brochures or materials with pertinent information regarding tuition. A letter of recommendation from your teacher A letter of acceptance from the festival, which also states the funds needed. If you do not yet have a letter of acceptance, we ask that you send it as soon as you hear. Funds released only after confirmation of acceptance. Proof of application will also be considered from applicants who have not yet received acceptance from summer festivals, as long as the application has been made prior to the audition. The festival should have a strong international reputation and competitive criteria for acceptance. Composers should prepare two original scores and audio/MIDI recordings of the pieces Email Chelsea Wimmer (caw2234 [at] columbia.edu ) with any questions or concerns music @ maison française Music at Maison Française is a daytime concert series featuring MPP students in 50-minute performances with short verbal introductions. Individual students and chamber groups interested in performing may apply for a concert date by contacting Beth Pratt at bp2413 [at] columbia.edu. MID DAY MUSIC @ FACULTY HOUSE Mid-Day Music at Faculty House is a daytime concert series featuring MPP students in 50-minute performances with short verbal introductions. Individual students and chamber groups interested in performing may apply for a concert date by contacting Beth Pratt at bp2413 [at] columbia.edu. MID-DAY MUSIC @ COLUMBIA RECITAL SERIES ANNUAL MPP GALA CONCERT Registered chamber music ensembles of the Music Performance Program are invited to audition for the opportunity to perform at the distinguished Weill Recital Hall at Carnegie Hall each spring. A small number of ensembles in good standing in the MPP are invited to perform through a selective audition process by a panel of judges. This is a wonderful and rare opportunity for students to perform on a world-renowned stage in the heart of New York City. Carnegie Hall Currently registered chamber ensembles! Carnegie Hall audition sign-ups are available Audition date for 2021, TBD Performance date for 2021, TBD Sign-up for an audition HERE Audition Requirements: - Only currently registered chamber groups with MPP can audition - Audition must be IN PERSON; no video submissions - The piece you wish to perform must be played in the audition and be up to 10 minutes - Your entire ensemble must be available on the day of the concert Other Opportunities Facebook Twitter Join The Email List All Materials ©2022 The Department of Music at Columbia University, unless otherwise marked. All rights reserved. Read the University copyright policy. site by Square Candy Design Music Performance Program Sitemap About Events Faculty & Staff Lessons Ensembles Jazz Barnard Music News Auditions Opportunities Practicing FAQ Current Students Contact Support the Program Applying to Columbia? Columbia Home Music Dept Home Search form Search