Jump to Navigation About Events Faculty & Staff Lessons Ensembles Jazz Barnard Music News Auditions Opportunities Practicing FAQ Current Students Contact Support the Program Applying to Columbia? About the Program Homepage Video Homepage About The Music Performance Program is a division of the Department of Music that offers unique opportunities to students with a strong musical background. Under the direction of Dr. Magdalena Stern-Baczewska, the MPP seeks to enable students to develop as musicians within Columbia's academic setting by offering a wide array of opportunities for musical instruction, participation, and performance. Auditions for acceptance into the MPP occur during the first week of the Fall Semester. *Students do not have to major in music. IMPORTANT MPP UPDATE: The Music Performance Program and the Louis Armstrong Jazz Performance Program will hold spring auditions for participation in ensembles and private lessons. If you auditioned in the Fall, you DO NOT need to audition this Spring. Please share with any Columbia student musicians who would like to participate! Chamber auditions via Zoom on Tuesday, Jan 18th 4-6pm. Jazz auditions via Zoom on Wednesday, Jan 19th 4-6pm. Please visit the audition page for more information. A Note from the Director Program Director Dr. Magdalena Stern-Baczewska [BaCHEVska] Welcome to Columbia University's Music Performance Program, where students' academic excellence meets musical prowess and passion. High-caliber music-making is an integral part of Columbia's campus life. Our student-musicians participate in a variety of activities, such as chamber music, jazz, world music, and orchestra, chorus, and individual instrumental instruction. New York City is their stage - the performances have taken our students beyond the Columbia campus, to such venues as Carnegie Hall, Alice Tully Hall, and Symphony Space. The Music Performance Program allows the new generation of future artists, politicians, scientists, and entrepreneurs to cultivate their talent and love of music through learning from world-class musicians. While thriving academically, our students keep an important place for music in their lives, and continue to make music relevant in the world around them. If you would like to be informed about the MPP activities, please join our mailing list. You may also support our performers by giving or joining us for upcoming performances. *Music Performance Program is a part of Columbia University's Department of Music, an academic department. We have no connection to Miller Theatre, which operates as a professional concert presenter independently of the academic departments. Facebook Twitter Join The Email List All Materials ©2022 The Department of Music at Columbia University, unless otherwise marked. All rights reserved. Read the University copyright policy. site by Square Candy Design Columbia Home Music Dept Home Search form Search