Jump to Navigation About Events Faculty & Staff Lessons Ensembles Jazz Barnard Music News Auditions Opportunities Practicing FAQ Current Students Contact Support the Program Applying to Columbia? Resources for Current Students MPP Student Handbook Lessons AUDITIONS (REQUIRED) ALL returning students are required to audition in September during the first week of classes to participate in the MPP during the academic year. Classical Lessons and Chamber Ensemble Auditions: September 6th and 8th 2022 Jazz Lessons and Ensemble Auditions: September 7th (Instrumental) & 9th (Vocal) 2022 Columbia University Orchestra Auditions: TBD World Music Ensembles: Speak with Instructor at first class meeting Piano Lesson Interviews: September 6th and 7th 2022 (from 10am-2pm in 109/110 Dodge Hall) *Pianists interested in chamber music MUST audition. Audition Requirements Classical: Instrumentalists should prepare two contrasting pieces or movements from solo repertoire. You will also be asked to demonstrate your sight reading skills. Jazz: Instrumentalists should prepare two jazz standards (a rhythm section will be provided to accompany auditions). You will also be asked to demonstrate your sight reading and improvisational skills. Vocalists should prepare two selections to show interpretative abilities (improvisation optional). Please provide a clear lead sheet with chord changes for the accompanist (a pianist is provided). Orchestra: Short solo of choice. This may be a short piece, or an excerpt of a longer piece. Your chosen piece should be indicative of your ability to move around your instrument, as well as the quality of your sound. AUDITION SIGN-UP REGISTRATION All accepted MPP students must register for lessons and ensembles by the change-of-program period to continue their participation that semester. Petitioning students must notify MPP staff prior to this deadline. Please note that you must make room for your individual lessons within the 18-credit limit. Due to administrative delays, the MPP will no longer be accepting petitions for private lessons, even if you successfully petitioned in the past. Directory of classes Lesson Fee Policy $300 MUSIC LESSON FEE PER SEMESTER APPLIES TO ALL STUDENTS TAKING LESSONS. All accepted MPP students must register for lessons and ensembles by the change-of-program deadline in order to be allowed to attend lessons that semester. Ensembles AUDITIONS (REQUIRED) ALL returning students are required to audition in for participation in the MPP during the academic year. Classical Lessons and Chamber Ensemble Auditions: September 6th & 8th 2022 Jazz Lessons and Ensemble Auditions: September 7th (Instrumental) & 9th (Vocal) 2022 Columbia University Orchestra Auditions: TBD World Music Ensembles: Speak with Instructor at first class meeting Piano Lesson Interviews: September 6th and 7th 2022 (from 10am-2pm in 109/110 Dodge Hall) *Pianists interested in chamber music MUST audition. Audition Requirements Classical: Instrumentalists should prepare two contrasting pieces or movements from solo repertoire.You will also be asked to demonstrate your sight reading skills. Jazz: Instrumentalists should prepare two jazz standards (a rhythm section will be provided to accompany auditions). You will also be asked to demonstrate your sight reading and improvisational skills.Vocalists should prepare two selections to show interpretative abilities (improvisation optional). Please provide a clear lead sheet with chord changes for the accompanist (a pianist is provided). Orchestra: Short solo of choice. This may be a short piece, or an excerpt of a longer piece. Your chosen piece should be indicative of your ability to move around your instrument, as well as the quality of your sound. AUDITION SIGN-UP REGISTRATION All accepted MPP students must register for lessons and ensembles by the change-of-program period to continue their participation that semester. Petitioning students must notify MPP staff prior to this deadline. Membership in CHAMBER ENSEMBLES is a TWO-SEMESTER (2) commitment for the 2021-2022 academic year. All admitted students must register for their assigned class FOR CREDIT by the change-of-program period deadline. DIRECTORY OF CLASSES World Music Ensembles AUDITIONS (REQUIRED) ALL returning students are required to audition in September 2021 for participation in the MPP during 2021-2022 academic year. Interested students should speak with instructor at first meeting. Bluegrass Ensemble: Mondays 4:30-6pm in 112 Dodge Hall Arab Music Ensemble: Fridays 10am-12pm in 814 Dodge Japanese Koto Ensemble: Thursdays 3-4:30pm in 112 Dodge Japanese Shakuhachi Ensemble: Thursdays 4:30-6pm 112 Dodge Japanese Gagaku Ensemble: Thursdays 6-7:30pm in 112 Dodge Auditions for Brazilian Ensemble and Afro-Colombian Ensemble are part of the jazz auditions on September 7th in 112 Dodge. Online signup is required. Dolan Prize DOLAN PRIZE AUDITIONS Students will only have ONE audition for DOLAN and ensemble/lesson placement. Auditions for the 2022-2023 academic year will be held on September 6th, 7th, and 8th ( students should sign up for chamber or jazz slot depending on their interest) The requirements for the Dolan Prize are: Sealed letter of recommendation from your instructor with details of their lesson fee per hour due by the end of the change-of-program-period: Fall 2022 semester: Friday September 16th Classical: Instrumentalists should prepare two contrasting pieces or movements from solo repertoire. You will also be asked to demonstrate your sight reading skills. Jazz: Instrumentalists should prepare two jazz standards (a rhythm section will be provided to accompany auditions). You will also be asked to demonstrate your sight reading and improvisational skills. Vocalists should prepare two selections to show interpretative abilities (improvisation optional). Please provide a clear lead sheet with chord changes for the accompanist (a pianist is provided). AUDITION SIGN-UP Mid-Day Music Recitals MID-DAY MUSIC RECITALS If you are interested in signing up for a Mid-Day recital, please email Chelsea Wimmer (caw2234jhp2150 [at] columbia.edu (@columbia.edu) ) with preferred dates and 45-50 minutes of potential repertoire. *We are unable to offer an artist fee for the performance. MID-DAY MUSIC RECITAL SERIES Performers are required to submit a Performance Form one week prior to date of performance. Click HERE for access to form. Carnegie Hall Students participating in a REGISTERED chamber music ensemble are invited to audition for the possibility of performing at our annual Weill Hall at Carnegie Hall event. Ensembles are limited to 10 mins of music and MUST audition with the piece or movements of performance. No late additions to program will be permitted. Audition: Friday Feb 25th 2022 Performance: April 13th (8-10pm) Rapaport Prize Thanks to the generosity of Columbia College alumnus Richard Rapaport, you can receive funding to study at a summer music festival of your choice! Auditions are open only to Columbia College (Barnard, GS, and SEAS not eligible) instrumentalists, vocalists, composers, and conductors. PRIORITY GIVEN to those who have played an active role in the Music Performance Program. Please note that graduating seniors are not eligible for this fellowship. Audition Requirements: Prepare two contrasting works or movements to showcase your technical and music abilities. Any festival brochures or materials with pertinent information regarding tuition. A sealed letter of recommendation from your teacher. A letter of acceptance from the festival, which also states the funds needed. Proof of application will also be considered from applicants who have not yet received acceptance from summer festivals, as long as the application has been made prior to the audition. Composers should prepare two original scores and audio recording of piece if you have them. The festival should have a strong international reputation and competitive criteria for acceptance. Rapaport Auditions 2022- TBD Casual Employment Forms Played a GIG for the MPP? Please bring the following forms with you to 618 Dodge Hall (printable links below) I9 receipt (form must be completed in Kent Hall) You will need your Passport OR Driver's Liscense AND Social Security Card (originals) Other Acceptable Documents Casual Employment Form W4 IT 2104 IT-2104e Voluntary Ethnicity and Race From Disclosure of Criminal Background You can drop of these forms to Beth Pratt in the Music Performance Program office Monday-Friday, 11am-5pm. If you have any questions please call 212-854- 1257 or email Beth at bp2413 [at] columbia.edu Facebook Twitter Join The Email List All Materials ©2022 The Department of Music at Columbia University, unless otherwise marked. All rights reserved. Read the University copyright policy. site by Square Candy Design Music Performance Program Sitemap About Events Faculty & Staff Lessons Ensembles Jazz Barnard Music News Auditions Opportunities Practicing FAQ Current Students Contact Support the Program Applying to Columbia? Columbia Home Music Dept Home Search form Search