Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links Coronavirus Information News@TheU People Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement Home Search Site RSMAS Home Rosenstiel Home Admissions Home Academic Departments About About Advisory Board Current MPS Track Leaders Associate Dean Welcome Prospective Students Admissions Alumni Careers Alumni Profiles Internship Reports Program Requirements Request Information Rosenstiel Opportunity Award Financing Your Education Frequently Asked Questions Schedule Information Session Student Resources Virtual Magazines Virtual Tour Degree Tracks Applied Remote Sensing Aquaculture Broadcast Meteorology Climate And Society Coastal Zone Management Exploration Science Fisheries Management And Conservation JD/MPS Program Marine Conservation Marine Mammal Science Natural Hazards And Catastrophes Tropical Marine Ecosystem Management Underwater Archaeology Weather Forecasting Current Students MPS Student Forms MPS Handbook Students Resources Contact Contact Request Information Schedule Information Session Apply Now About Prospective Students Degree Tracks Current Students Contact Apply Now Search About About Advisory Board Current MPS Track Leaders Associate Dean Welcome Prospective Students Admissions Alumni Careers Alumni Profiles Internship Reports Program Requirements Request Information Rosenstiel Opportunity Award Financing Your Education Frequently Asked Questions Schedule Information Session Student Resources Virtual Magazines Virtual Tour Degree Tracks Applied Remote Sensing Aquaculture Broadcast Meteorology Climate And Society Coastal Zone Management Exploration Science Fisheries Management And Conservation JD/MPS Program Marine Conservation Marine Mammal Science Natural Hazards And Catastrophes Tropical Marine Ecosystem Management Underwater Archaeology Weather Forecasting Current Students MPS Student Forms MPS Handbook Students Resources Contact Contact Request Information Schedule Information Session Apply Now RSMAS Home Rosenstiel Home Admissions Home Academic Departments Prospective Students Apply Now Home About Degree Tracks Our Students Contact Apply Now Home Apply Now AAA Apply Now Master of Professional Science » Apply Now Apply to the MPS Program Open All Tabs Required Application Documents An application to the MPS program consists of the following (Fall & Spring admissions only): Online CollegeNet application Transcripts from all institutions in which a degree(s) was awarded and a transcript evaluation (for non-U.S. academic institutions) Three letters of recommendation TOEFL or IELTS scores (for international applicants) The Graduate Record Examination Test (GRE) score is not required for admission. You may optionally submit your GRE score. A file is considered "ready for review" upon receipt of all items listed above. If admission to the MPS program is granted, it will be contingent upon receipt of all items listed above (including official records transcripts and test scores) and the following for international applicants: Statement of Financial Responsibility Form (SFR) and corresponding bank letter Color copy of current visa (if available) Color copy of passport Copy of diploma and certified English translation Permanent Residents must provide a color copy of his/her Permanent Resident card. Deadline for submitting an application for international students is June 1st, and for domestic students is July 1st at 11:59PM. Undergraduate scholastic performance, previous work experience, Graduate Record Examination scores, TOEFL/IELTS scores (if applicable), and the letters of recommendation are all considered in evaluating an applicant. International Transcript Evaluation Costs and Financial Aid Unofficial Transcripts Unofficial transcripts and test scores are accepted for review purposes only. Track Leaders (faculty) can use unofficial records to review an applicant's file and expedite this process. Please be aware, international applicants must submit an evaluation report, which includes official transcripts/diploma from an approved credentialing agency, if he/she is enrolled in a non-U.S. academic institution, or received his/her degree(s) from an institution outside of the U.S. If applicable, applicants must submit all outside official transcripts and copy of diploma(s) to an education credentials evaluation service (see Approved Evaluation Services below). Applicants must request a course-by-course evaluation with degree equivalency and Grade Point Average (GPA) calculation. Official academic transcripts, diplomas, English-translations, and results of the evaluation from the evaluation service provider must be submitted to the MPS Office mps@rsmas.miami.edu. Read more in our Transcripts section below. Read below about unofficial GRE (not required) and TOELF/IELTS scores Application Deadlines Applications for Spring Admissions (not accepting applications for Spring 2022): Closed on November 15th (U.S. Citizens and Permanent Residents) Closed on November 1st (International Applicants) Applications for Fall Admissions: Closed on July 1st at 11:59PM (U.S. Citizens and Permanent Residents) Closed on June 1st (International Applicants) Application The application is available online and must be submitted via the CollegeNet online portal. There is a non-refundable application fee of $85.00 USD. UM employees (with benefits) and McNair Scholars are eligible for an application fee waiver. When submitting the application online, you will be required to make a payment via a credit card or a checking account debit transaction. Personal Statement Please make sure you address your track of choice, and all relevant field, lab, and work experience (past and present) in your personal statement, as well as how you envision the MPS program contributing to your professional career and goals. Recommended, but not limited to 1.5 - 2 pages for personal statement. Transcripts Please make sure you possess the required undergraduate coursework and/or degree before applying. Applicants must request transcripts from all academic institutions attended (even if a degree or credits were not awarded), including all study abroad and community colleges. Official transcripts must be mailed or e-mailed directly from the relevant academic institution (Office of the Registrar) to the MPS Office. Our email is mps@rsmas.miami.edu. Scroll down to see our mailing address or visit our Contact Us page. Applicants may submit unofficial transcripts for review purposes only. If an applicant is not able to submit an official or unofficial transcript with his/her application, the applicant may submit transcripts via email to mps@rsmas.miami.edu. Please be advised, official transcripts will only be accepted if they are sent to us directly from the academic institution. Transcripts sent by you or issued to you (even if they are in a sealed envelope) are not considered official and will not be accepted. International Applicants All graduate applicants who have received degrees or are currently enrolled in a degree-seeking program from a college or university outside the United States (except applicants to Law* and Nursing**) must submit official transcripts and diplomas (if available) from all colleges and universities attended to one of the three approved evaluation services listed below. Transcripts in a language other than English must be provided in that language and must be accompanied by a certified English translation. International applicants must also submit a copy of his/her diploma in the official language of the country from which the degree was awarded and provide a certified English translation of the diploma. Follow the specific instructions of the selected evaluation service to request a course-by-course evaluation with degree equivalency and grade point average (GPA) calculation. Applicants must request that the evaluation report and copy of all the official documents used in the evaluation are sent directly from one of the three approved evaluation services to the MPS Office mps@rsmas.miami.edu. The evaluation report and supporting documents are required before Track Leaders can review an applicant's file. Any documents received by the University will become the property of the University and will not be returned to the applicant or sent to a third party including the evaluation services. APPROVED EVALUATION SERVICES: Josef Silny & Associates (JS&A) Educational Credential Evaluators, Inc. (ECE) World Education Services (WES) Letters of Recommendation Three letters of recommendation are required for admissions consideration. Each applicant must request letters of recommendation from three (3) different references using the guidelines provided in the online application. Applications from CollegeNet may be submitted without letters of recommendation. However, an applicant’s file will not be reviewed by Track Leaders until all required admissions materials (including letters of recommendation) have been received by the MPS Office. Upon completion of the application, your references should receive an e-mail from CollegeNet, requesting the online submission of the required documentation (questionnaire + letter of recommendation). Academic references are ideal and highly preferred, but we will accept letters from employers and/or supervisors. Please do not request letters from friends, family, ministers, or coaches. If your references have trouble using the online submission portal, they may e-mail their letters (signed and on letterhead) to the MPS office at mps@rsmas.miami.edu. We cannot accept letters that are not signed. Letters sent by the applicant or forwarded to the MPS Office by the applicant will not be accepted. GRE The Graduate Record Examination Test (GRE) score is not required for admission. Applicants may submit GRE scores for our Merit-based Tuition Waiver eligibility https://mps.rsmas.miami.edu/prospective-students/financing-your-education/index.html. Use Institution Code 7690 for delivery of your score report to the Rosenstiel School campus (home of the MPS office). TOEFL/IELTS (International Students ONLY) International applicants whose native language is not English must submit the official results of the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL - http://www.ets.org/toefl/) or the International English Language Testing System (IELTS - http://www.ielts.org/). A minimum score of 550 (paper-based test), 80 (iBT), or 6.5 for the IELTS is required for admission. Please use institution code 2919 (no department code). This institution code is for the TOEFL only; please note that the GRE institution code is different (see above). Applicants may download a copy of TOEFL test scores directly from the ETS website and email that to mps@rsmas.miami.edu. Scores download from the ETS website are self-reported and therefore considered "unofficial." The exception to the TOEFL/IELTS requirement applies to international students earning a degree, or who has completed a substantial amount of coursework, at a North American University. Visa/I-20 Requirements (International Students ONLY) If accepted to the MPS program, international applicants must submit a color copy of his/her passport, current visa (if available), and I-94 travel record (if applicable) https://i94.cbp.dhs.gov/I94/#/home. This is required for processing or updating student Visas. Therefore, on the application, please type in your name as it appears on your passport. MPS Mailing Address University of Miami Rosenstiel School Campus, MPS Office, Room S/A 132 4600 Rickenbacker Causeway Miami, FL 33149 Phone: (305) 421-4340 Fax: (305) 421-4246 E-Mail: mps@rsmas.miami.edu APPLY NOW University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 Master of Professional Science | Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science Miami, FL 33149 Phone (305) 421-4340 Phone (305) 421-4340 Fax: (305) 421-4246 Email mps@rsmas.miami.edu Resources Give to Rosenstiel School About UM myUM CaneLink Academic Calendar Blackboard UM Network Alumni Association Medical Center Hurricane Sports Employment Opportunities Visit Campus Map Virtual Tour Parking & Transportation Shuttle Schedule Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram social-linkedin social-google-plus Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices