Skip to main content Yale University Open Main Navigation Close Main Navigation Max Planck - Yale Center for Biodiversity Movement and Global Change About Participants Opportunities Projects Events Galleries Welcome Welcome to the Max Planck - Yale Center for Biodiversity Movement and Global Change The Center, officially opening in May 2018, is a partnership between Yale University and its Center for Biodiversity and Global Change and the Max Planck Institute of Animal Behavior. It is one of several International Max Planck Centers which link Max Planck Institutes and international partners and have the aim to bundle knowledge, methods and know-how to create added scientific value. The Center supports research and training around the use of new technologies such as GPS tracking and remote sensing to address questions in ecology, behavior, and global change. Diversity, equity, and inclusion are core values in our group. We aim to promote the success of traditionally underrepresented groups in science because we believe not only in the importance of increasing equity across academia, but also that a diverse team will enable a broader perspective and enhance creativity. Program News ICARUS highlighted in Science Science magazine recently highlighted the initial phase of ICARUS (International Cooperation for Animal Research Using Space), a flagship project of the MPYC. The article... Date: MPYC flagship project receives endorsement by United Nations The International COVID-19 Bio-Logging Initiative, a flagship project of the MPYC, recently received a ten year endorsement from the United Nations Decade for Ocean... Date: Space station backflip reveals great views of the ICARUS antenna Recent photos posted via NASA Johnson’s Flickr account show off great views of the ICARUS antenna on the International Space Station. ICARUS stands for International... Date: More news... Max Planck - Yale Center for Biodiversity Movement and Global Change OML, Room 301A 165 Prospect Street New Haven, CT 06520-8105 Contact ybgc@yale.edu to join the mailing list. Upcoming Events No events to display. Yale Accessibility at Yale · Privacy policy Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved Content may not have been approved by or reflect the views of Yale University.