Skip to main content University of Wisconsin–Madison UW Crest Multicultural Student Center Student Affairs Search Menu open menu close Get involved Events Identity Centers Find community & support Services About Make a Gift Report an incident Student Affairs Ways to get involved and find community Identity Centers A way for marginalized identities to have a sense of belonging by providing a built in network of support, and a place to feel their own. Identity centers also help students from similar backgrounds find one another, and create community. Discover our Identity Centers More Cultural programs Programming meant to cultivate intentional experiences and spaces for students to learn and celebrate within and across identity, culture, and heritage to promote a more culturally aware campus community. Discover our Cultural Programs More Affiliated Student Organizations A great way to get involved, meet new people, and develop leadership skills on campus. There are more than 900 student organizations on campus, and many of them are cultural based. Explore Student Organizations More The Multicultural Calendar No events returned. Heritage Months UW-Madison honors it's diversity by cultivating intentional experiences and spaces for students to learn and celebrate within and across identity, culture, and heritage to promote a more culturally aware campus community. More ways to engage Join a dialogue group Groups include: Unbutu, Tu Voz, Rooted, VisibiliTea, and Sisters In Solidarity. Explore Dialogue Groups Services Make a room, study table or space reservation, and get tutoring or advising assistance. Use MSC Services Mental health and well being Including personal physical health, mental health, and connection to a safe campus. Get care for yourself Community building Events, gatherings, and learning opportunities to engage with other students. Join an event Leadership awards Recognizing individual and organizational leadership. Awards and winners MCC Grants Get funding for your student org event through the MSC. Apply today Report an incident Bias or hate incident Including slurs, degrading language, epithets, graffiti, symbols, assault, microagressions, and harassment. Report bias or hate Sexual Assault Get support and resources for healing and recovery regardless of sex, gender, or sexual orientation. Confidential support is also available. Report a sexual assault Other incidents This could include a student that you are concerned about, hazing, stalking, or a missing student. Report other incidents Contact Subscribe to our weekly newsletter Get the latest news, events, and opportunities from the Multicultural Student Center. Subscribe Multicultural Student Center Red Gym, 2nd floor 716 Langdon St, Madison WI 608-262-4503 (MSC) 608-262-2014 (BCC) Monday-Thursday: 9am-10pm Fridays: 9am-5pm Connect on social media MSC Facebook MSC Instagram BCC Instagram LCC Instagram APIDA Instagram Site footer content University logo that links to main university website Quick Links The Multicultural calendar Heritage Months Services Report an incident Identity Centers Asian Pacific Islander Desi American Student Center Black Cultural Center Latinx Cultural Center LGBTQ+ Crossroads American Indian Student and Cultural Center Contact Us 716 Langdon St, Madison WI Red Gym, Second Floor MSC Hours: Mon-Fri 10am-4pm Phone: 608-262-4503 twitter instagram facebook Website feedback, questions or accessibility issues: Maria.Ahmad@wisc.edu. Learn more about accessibility at UW–Madison. This site was built using the UW Theme | Privacy Notice | © 2022 Board of Regents of the University of Wisconsin System.