retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content Center for Identity MENU FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter Search Search Graduate Degree Curriculum Faculty Admissions How to Apply Tuition and Fees Career Development Request Information Home "-" Grow your career in information security and privacy at The University of Texas. Learn More Top-Ranked Program The Master of Science in Information Security and Privacy (ISP) is the Nation’s premiere professional degree program for those seeking employment or career advancement in the dynamic field of information security and privacy. The Center for Identity joined with the top-ranked University of Texas School of Information to offer this unique interdisciplinary program bringing together law, public policy, communications, technology and the social sciences. The MS ISP delivers a 360-degree perspective of information security and privacy not available through other programs in cybersecurity and information assurance. Study Online or In-Person The MS ISP program is designed to accommodate both working professionals looking to expand their opportunities while remaining in the workforce, and people looking to pursue a new career in Information Security and Privacy. The unique curriculum delivers a 360-degree perspective not available through other programs in cybersecurity and information assurance. Classes meet two days per month (back-to-back Fridays and Saturdays 8am –5pm), for 21 months and can be taken in-person or online. Students that have recently finished their undergraduate studies are also welcome! No GRE scores or prior experience required to apply. Career Growth and Development The field of information security and privacy is among the fastest-growing in today's marketplace. Rapidly transforming information technologies and policy have created a great demand for a workforce prepared to deal with new and rapidly evolving information security and privacy. The MS ISP will prepare its students to bridge that gap with training from multiple specialties and perspectives, while the Center for Identity's projects and partnerships with business and government will allow for hands-on learning for enriched and generous career development opportunities. Why Information Security and Privacy at UT? Top faculty from across the University of Texas at Austin offer world class education and training in one of the fastest-growing fields in today's marketplace. The Bureau of Labor Statistics and the International Association of Privacy Professionals both indicate that jobs in information security and privacy are expected to grow steadily over the next 10 years—get a degree or certificate from UT Austin to advance your career in this dynamic industry. No events at this time. Register Now 2501 Speedway, MS C4300 Austin, TX 78712 (512) 588-3511 msisp@utexas.edu FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter Footer menu Center for Identity School of Information UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022