Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University For: Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give Michigan State University About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More | Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now | Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours | Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility | Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More | Athletics MSUToday Featured stories April 4, 2022 What is an isotope? March 2, 2022 Historic firsts for Spartan women: Meet some of the trailblazing women who left their mark on MSU. Feb. 23, 2022 A group of MSU scientists and researchers studying critical areas explain how their research addresses five big questions about a changing climate. All Stories Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Athletics < About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More < Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now < Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours < Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility < Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give MSUToday > Visit MSU.edu > Visit MSU is one of the biggest, greenest campuses in the country, welcoming visitors from around the world. We invite you to explore our amazing campus, but before you do, visit our Together We Will website to learn how we're keeping Spartans and visitors safe. Visit options There’s much to see and do on MSU’s 5,300-acre campus. Come visit, and take a look around. Be sure to view our campus visitor guidelines. Are you a prospective student? Check out the in-person and virtual tours that the Office of Admissions offers. Visit Get to and Around Campus Campus Maps Explore campus with interactive maps and directions. View maps Parking on Campus Information about daily parking, buying a semester pass, obtaining a faculty/staff permit or paying a parking violation. Learn more Bike Rental MSU’s on-campus bike shop offers bike rentals, sales and repairs year-round. Rent a bike CATA Campus and City Bus Service Numerous busing options are available for all Spartans, including free on-campus bus rides. Visit website Capital Region International Airport Located just minutes from campus, the Lansing airport offers convenient travel opportunities. Visit website Michigan Flyer Airport Shuttle Michigan Flyer-AirRide has suspended service due to COVID-19. Check the website for service updates. Visit website Lodging The Lansing area has many options for places to stay. Choose from recommended local hotels and inns where you’ll find a warm welcome. Find hotels Entertainment Venues and Tickets Agriculture and Livestock Pavilion Hosts livestock and agricultural events. Learn more Athletics Spartan sports tickets, schedules and more. Learn more Breslin Student Events Center Home to MSU basketball and host to more than 360 events each year. Learn more College of Music See world-class student and faculty musicians perform. Learn more Department of Theatre Take in performances and plays that matter. Learn more Wharton Center for Performing Arts Catch the best of Broadway, music and the performing arts on MSU’s campus. Learn more Things to Do 4-H Children's Garden Abrams Planetarium W.J. Beal Gardens Beaumont Tower Broad Art Museum Bug House Horticulture Gardens MSU Dairy Store Spartan Stadium Wharton Center for Performing Arts A place of enrichment and delight for children of all ages. Visit page Exciting planetarium shows for all ages. Visit page Outdoor laboratory to study and appreciate plants. Visit page Iconic campus bell tower built in 1928 as a monument to teaching. Visit page World-class contemporary art museum. Visit page Observe and interact with live insects and arachnids. Visit page More than a dozen acres of campus gardens. Visit page Legendary ice cream and cheese made and sold on campus. Visit page Home to MSU football since 1923. Visit page Broadway plays, live music and more. Visit page Stay connected Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update to receive timely news, groundbreaking research, inspiring videos, Spartan profiles and more. Email address Sign Up Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update Thank you for subscribing! MSUToday Weekly Enjoy a curated collection of stories, photos, videos and featured content from across campus, delivered each Wednesday afternoon. MSUDaily Update Start your day with the latest Spartans Will! Featuring quick news bites, timely information, campus views, words of wisdom, essential info and a little inspiration, this email is delivered on weekday mornings. Please help us deliver content you’re most interested in. Check the topics you would like to read about. You are now signed up to receive the MSUToday Update. Coming to your inbox soon — a quick and easy way to keep up to date on the latest news about Spartans and the work they’re doing on campus and around the world. Go Green! Lisa Mulcrone, MSUToday editor Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports Submit Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services Health4U MSU Health Care Inc. Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Reports CARES Act Funding Student achievement and outcomes Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University