Menu Search Search TOGETHER WE WILL COVID-19 Vaccine Students & Parents Faculty & Staff Campus Visitors FAQs Resources Communications Home FAQs MSU is requiring students, faculty and staff to be vaccinated against COVID-19 as well as receive a booster shot, with limited medical and religious exemptions, as well as online-only exemptions for students only (that directive has been extended for the 2022-23 academic year). Below are answers to questions about these requirements as well as general FAQs. General What do I do if I am feeling ill or test positive for COVID-19? If you are feeling ill or have tested positive for COVID-19, you should self-isolate and avoid close contact with all others. Students are asked to not come to class if they are experiencing any symptoms associated with COVID-19 and reach out to their instructors for accommodations so that they can continue their coursework. Faculty are asked to be empathetic to those who are unable to attend class for a time and to recognize the mental health challenges that students and colleagues may be experiencing. Employees experiencing symptoms should not come to work and contact their supervisor. For more information on what to do if you are ill, test positive or are exposed to COVID-19, visit the COVID-19 guidance page. Where can I get a vaccine or booster? In the U.S., anyone 5 years of age and older, including international students, is eligible to receive a COVID-19 vaccine. It is being distributed via doctor’s offices, hospital systems, pharmacies, grocery stores, county health departments and many other locations. All members of the MSU community age 12 and older, including students, faculty, staff, patients, retirees and their families, can receive a Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine or booster through the MSU Health Care Pharmacy. Students also can get a vaccine or booster through Olin Health Center from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday by calling (517) 353-4660 to book an appointment. You can also find a COVID-19 vaccine or booster near you by visiting vaccines.gov. How do I get tested for COVID-19? While the Early Detection Program and PCR testing at the Clinical Center have both ended, other testing options are widely available. Students experiencing significant symptoms (such as high fever, persistent cough or shortness of breath) can request a medical appointment at Olin Health Center. A Student Health Services provider will administer a COVID-19 test as medically necessary. Many urgent care centers and pharmacies in the East Lansing area and other communities offer testing. Every home in the United States is eligible to order 4 free at-⁠home COVID-⁠19 tests from the federal government. Members of the MSU community can get tested at the Sparrow Laboratories clinic in Frandor at the former Sears Auto Center. Test results are typically available within 24 hours. In addition, many urgent care centers and pharmacies in the East Lansing area offer testing as well. The state of Michigan also runs a test location finder. Who must isolate or quarantine? The following rules apply if you test positive for COVID-19 or are exposed to someone who is positive: If you test positive for COVID-19, even if you do not have symptoms, you must isolate yourself for five days and avoid any contact with others. If you are unvaccinated and are exposed to COVID-19, you should quarantine for five days. If you are exposed and vaccinated, you do not need to quarantine but should self-monitor for any symptoms. For more information on what to do if you are ill, test positive or are exposed to COVID-19, visit the COVID-19 guidance page. What are the COVID-19 protocols for athletic, music, art and theater events on campus? MSU athletic events, regardless of campus venue, no longer require masks. In addition, the proof of vaccine requirement at indoor athletic venues no longer applies. Wharton Center and other performance venues may still have COVID-19 requirements, such as masking, depending on artist/promoter contracts. Please check with the venue before the event. COVID-19 vaccine/booster mandate What is MSU’s COVID-19 vaccine and booster requirement? MSU requires students, faculty and staff to be fully vaccinated and have received a booster shot OR have received an approved exemption. The mandate has been extended to include the 2022-23 academic year. The vaccine and booster mandates may be modified or may be continued after the 2022/2023 academic year as conditions warrant. In general, people are considered fully vaccinated 2 weeks after their second dose in a 2-dose series, such as the Pfizer or Moderna vaccines, or 2 weeks after a single-dose vaccine, such as Johnson & Johnson’s Janssen vaccine; People are considered up to date with their vaccinations after receiving the appropriate booster once eligible. Individuals are eligible for their first booster five months after a Pfizer vaccine, five months after a Moderna vaccine or two months after a Johnson & Johnson vaccine. A second booster dose also is available for those age 50 and older. Though recommended by the CDC, it is not required to fulfill MSU's vaccine/booster mandate. Individuals are eligible for their second booster four months after a Pfizer, Moderna or Johnson & Johnson vaccine. Even those who contracted COVID-19 previously are required to receive a vaccine and booster when eligible, which provides additional protection. Volunteers, unpaid/no-pay appointees and emeriti faculty are not subject to the vaccine mandate, though visiting scholars are required to receive a vaccine and booster. The vaccine requirement does not apply to contractors or vendors. Visitors to campus, unless they are a student, faculty or staff member, also are not required to be vaccinated. For information on receiving a vaccine or booster, click here. What do incoming students need to do and by when concerning the vaccine mandate? New students must either be on the path to being fully vaccinated and boosted or apply for an exemption before they will be allowed to enroll in courses at MSU. Only after filling out the vaccine verification form with their information will they be allowed to enroll in courses. How do I provide proof that I have been vaccinated and boosted? Students, faculty and staff enter their information using MSU's vaccine verification form. Ensure you are using a supported browser (Chrome, Firefox or Edge). To enter your vaccine doses, please provide the dates of vaccination and the manufacturer of the vaccine (Pfizer, Moderna, etc.). To enter your booster info, go to the vaccine verification form and click “Edit info/Add booster.” The box indicating you have received your original vaccine (Yes, I have) should be marked. Click “Submit.” Scroll down, enter booster information, and click “Submit” to complete the requirement. A how-to guide also has been created. MSU reserves the right to require further verification or documentation if needed. What are the consequences for not complying with the vaccine requirement? If a student is not fully compliant, a COVID-19 directive compliance hold is placed on their account. The hold prevents students from accessing grades, enrolling in or changing courses and receiving financial aid refunds. Employees who violate the vaccine requirement may be subject to discipline, including termination from the university. Are second boosters being required by MSU? A second booster dose has been approved by the CDC/FDA for those age 50 and older. Though it is recommended by the CDC for that age group, it is not required to fulfill MSU's vaccine/booster mandate. For anyone seeking a second dose, you can visit the MSU Health Care Pharmacy. What if I am not currently eligible for a booster vaccination? If you are not booster eligible, you do not need to take action yet. Once you become booster eligible, you will have 14 days to get your booster to be compliant with the university vaccine requirements. You will receive reminders as your eligibility date nears. Can I change my form if I make an error or need to add my second dose? Yes, the vaccine verification form allows you to make edits multiple times and will recognize your most recent response. Can those under the age of 18 receive the COVID-19 vaccine at MSU? Minors (those under the age of 18) must receive permission from a parent or guardian. A medical consent form can be obtained by whoever is providing the vaccine. For those obtaining a vaccine at the MSU Health Care Pharmacy, minors should bring a signed consent form with them. How do I request an exemption from the vaccine mandate? Exemptions to the vaccine and booster requirement will be limited. The exemptions are: Religious exemptions: Persons requesting an exemption due to a sincerely held religious belief that precludes them from receiving the COVID-19 vaccine may submit a request for a religious exemption. A religious exemption is not the same as a philosophical, moral or conscientious exemption. Medical exemptions: Persons requesting an exemption due to a medical condition that precludes them from receiving the COVID-19 vaccine may submit a request for a medical exemption. Documentation from a medical provider is required. Online only courses (students only): Students requesting this exemption must attest they are taking only online courses and will not physically be present on campus or in any MSU owned or governed property for any reason, including attending or participating in courses, services, programs, recreational or sporting events or other activities of any kind. Individuals with an existing medical or religious exemption from the original vaccine mandate also are exempt from the booster requirement. Online-only exemptions for students are only approved for one semester at a time; students wanting such an exemption will need to apply for each semester. New requests for online-only, religious and medical exemptions may be made for the booster requirement. Again, those who already have religious or medical exemptions will remain exempt from the booster requirement. You do not need to file another request. More information on exemptions can be found here. Am I eligible for a booster if I recently got infected with COVID-19? Per CDC guidelines, individuals can receive a booster as soon as they are out of isolation after being infected with COVID-19. If you have concerns, talk with your primary care provider or a medical expert and apply for a medical exemption if needed. If I qualify for a medical or religious exemption, will I be required to participate in the Early Detection Program? The Early Detection Program has ended. Those with an approved medical or religious exemption are not required to participate in testing. How do international vaccines affect the vaccine/booster mandate? What if I cannot receive a vaccine in my country? For the vaccine mandate, MSU will only accept all FDA-approved or -authorized and WHO-approved vaccines. Per the CDC, individuals can receive an FDA-approved or -authorized vaccine 28 days after receiving a noncompliant vaccine outside of the United States. Individuals coming to MSU from outside of the United States will be given a grace period to receive a compliant vaccine if necessary. For more information visit https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/vaccines/booster-shot.html. If a vaccine or booster is not medically available in the country someone is residing, learning or working, they should submit a request for a medical exemption at https://covidresponse.msu.edu/vaccine-queue/queue. What happens if it is learned that an employee or student has attested to being vaccinated when in fact the person was not actually vaccinated? Individuals can report, anonymously, to the MSU Misconduct Hotline (800-763-0764). They will need to provide the date, time and location involved. Vaccine exemptions How do I apply for a medical, religious or student online-only exemption? MSU is requiring students, faculty and staff to be vaccinated against COVID-19, with limited medical and religious exemptions for all, as well as exemptions for students if they are taking online-only classes and will not be on property owned or governed by MSU for any reason. If you are seeking an exemption, you MUST fill out the vaccine verification form and request your exemption using that link. Students approved for an online-only class exemption cannot come to any MSU property during the semester, for any reason. Those in violation will face discipline, including and up to expulsion. What is the turnaround time for getting a response? Every effort will be made to process exemption requests as promptly as possible. Is there be an appeal process if denied? Faculty, students, and staff who applied for, but were denied, an exemption from the mandatory vaccine requirement may appeal the denial determination by following the appeal process laid out in the vaccine verification form. Who is on the exemption review committee? The exemption review committee consists of multi-disciplinary professionals. The committee will consult with relevant MSU personnel as needed. The decision of the review committee is a university decision. Is the information I submit in my exemption request confidential? Yes, the information will be kept as confidential as possible, shared only on a need-to-know basis. Can I apply for both a religious and medical exemption? Yes. I received my vaccine in another country and the vaccine was not FDA-authorized or WHO-approved. My doctor says that getting another vaccine at this point may not be safe. What should I do? Apply for a medical exemption (deferral). Face coverings Do faculty, staff and students need to wear face coverings on property owned or controlled by MSU? With the start of the 2022 summer semester May 16, MSU lifted its face covering directive, and masks no longer are required indoors. There still may be limited situations where masks may be required, such as in campus health care facilities or due to state/federal regulations or contracts. The federal regulation for public transportation, including on CATA buses, has expired. Are people required to wear masks at events on campus, such as athletic events at the Breslin Center or Spartan Stadium or events at the Wharton Center? MSU athletic events, regardless of campus venue, no longer require masks. Wharton Center and other performance venues may still have COVID-19 requirements, such as masking, depending on artist/promoter contracts. Please check with the venue before the event. Do I need to wear a mask to ride the CATA bus? No. The federal regulation requiring masks on CATA vehicles and in their facilities has expired. Do masks need to be worn at MSU’s veterinary medicine clinics? Yes, masks do need to be worn at the Veterinary Medical Center. Are there other locations that face coverings may be required? Masks may be required in additional unique settings, due to existing contracts or due to federal mandates (such as the Child Development Lab). Individuals in those settings will be notified of such requirements. What if someone asks me to wear a face covering? Some members of our community may ask you to wear a mask when you interact with them due to special health concerns. As individuals make their personal decisions about health and safety, we should respect their decisions. Also, it is important to remember that many in our Spartan community will choose to wear a face covering for their protection. Students Can a student remain enrolled at MSU without being vaccinated if they take only online courses? Yes, so long as that student applies for, receives an online-only exemption and is not coming to campus for any reason. Can I choose to be unvaccinated and just participate in the Early Detection Program? No, all students coming to property owned or governed by MSU are required to be vaccinated unless they qualify for one of the limited exemptions for medical or religious reasons. What if a student enrolled in an in-person course requests to be remote/online because of their circumstances (e.g., health, international)? A student with an appropriately approved medical or religious exemption will be allowed to attend in-person classes or have appropriate accommodations made if available. A student who declines vaccinations and does not have an approved exemption, will not be allowed to attend in-person courses. Course modalities are determined by the instructor in consultation with their departments. Students who want or need to take all of their classes online must choose classes that are offered as online courses. Faculty are not obligated or expected to change course modalities to suit individual student’s needs or preferences. Is MSU providing space for quarantining/isolating students? All students living in the residence halls or on-campus apartments will be required to isolate if they test positive for COVID-19. Students with approved vaccine exemptions also will need to quarantine if they are exposed to COVID-19. While some isolation and quarantine space is being provided by the university during the summer 2022 semester, the university will not have the capacity to provide space in the fall. Do students need to inform a faculty member, academic adviser, or residence hall adviser of their vaccination status? No. Students will be required to provide the dates of their vaccination dose(s), type of vaccination and location of vaccination site using an online link that will be shared soon. The university reserves the right to request further verification/documentation. Students do not need to provide proof of vaccination to instructors, advisers or supervisors. Can students still participate in in-person activities and classes if they are not fully vaccinated but are participating in the Early Detection Program? Only if they have received an authorized exemption. Students who have not received an exemption must either receive the vaccine or they cannot take part in any in-person activities and classes. Faculty and staff Do employees need to inform their supervisor of their vaccination status? No. Employees are required to provide the dates of their vaccination dose(s) and type of vaccination using the vaccine verification form. The university reserves the right to request or seek further verification/documentation. Employees do not need to provide proof of vaccination to supervisors. Can I choose to be unvaccinated and just participate in the Early Detection Program? No, all employees coming to property owned or governed by MSU are required to be vaccinated unless they qualify for one of the limited exemptions for medical or religious reasons. Can an employee remain employed at MSU without being vaccinated if they are working remotely? No. Even employees who have previously arranged with their supervisor to work fully remotely must be vaccinated or apply for a medical or religious exemption. Should employees working remotely continue to do so? MSU Human Resources has launched a remote work policy that outlines expectations and requirements as the university supports a flexible workspace. What are the expectations for instructors when determining whether to accommodate requests for remote learning from students who are concerned about COVID? Course modalities are determined by the instructors in consultation with their departments. Students who want or need to take all of their classes online must choose classes that are offered as online courses. Faculty are not obligated or expected to change course modalities to suit individual student’s needs or preferences. Instructors and their departments should work together to help students who are impacted by the pandemic, but a student’s unwillingness to be vaccinated outside of accepted medical or religious reasons is not a basis for an instructor to offer online options for students to take a class. Will faculty be informed about the vaccination status of everyone in their class (vaccinated or have an appropriate exemption)? No, the expectation is that everyone will be vaccinated or have an appropriately approved medical or religious exemption. Students should not be asked about their vaccine status by instructors, supervisors, staff or other students. FAQs Testing and Reporting Travel COVID-19 Guidance 888-353-1294 Contact Information Site Map Privacy Statement Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Notice of Nondiscrimination Spartans Will. © Michigan State University