Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University For: Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give Michigan State University About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More | Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now | Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours | Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility | Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More | Athletics MSUToday Featured stories April 4, 2022 What is an isotope? March 2, 2022 Historic firsts for Spartan women: Meet some of the trailblazing women who left their mark on MSU. Feb. 23, 2022 A group of MSU scientists and researchers studying critical areas explain how their research addresses five big questions about a changing climate. All Stories Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Athletics < About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More < Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now < Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours < Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility < Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give MSUToday > MSU.edu > Social Media Directory Social Media Directory Search by name Category Select Category Institutional Colleges & Schools Offices Locations/Destinations Campus Life & Services Research Michigan State University On the university-wide social media accounts, you’ll find the latest Michigan State University stories, news and highlights — everything from Spartan pride to world-changing research. #SpartansWill Admissions Learn more about Michigan State University and its highly ranked academic programs, student organizations and important news and events on the Admissions social media accounts. It’s good to #BeASpartan. Alumni Office The Michigan State University Alumni Office shares the collective impact of nearly half a million Spartans worldwide. Check out alumni stories and upcoming events on its accounts. Athletics From game updates to player profiles, get a behind-the-scenes look at all Michigan State University team sports on the Spartan Athletics social media accounts. #GoGreen AgBioResearch MSU AgBioResearch scientists conduct innovative research in the areas of food, energy and the environment. Associated Students of Michigan State University (ASMSU) Breslin Student Events Center Career Services Network The Career Services Network (CSN) is a seamless connection of career service professionals located in college-based and centralized career centers across campus. We serve students and recent alumni (within two years of graduation.) Center for Language Teaching Advancement (CeLTA) Get the latest news, info and resources from CeLTA, MSU’s internal support unit for language learning and teaching. Center for Survivors The MSU Center for Survivors helps build empowered, inclusive communities while protecting and uplifting survivors through therapy, resources and other forms of support. College of Agriculture and Natural Resources (CANR) Faculty and students in the college are tackling the world’s biggest problems related to food, health and the environment. College of Arts and Letters (CAL) The college prepares students — from actors and filmmakers to philosophers and writers — to make their marks on their professions and the world. College of Communication Arts and Sciences (ComArtSci) Bringing together art and science, the college pioneers new ways for students to understand the world and use communication for the common good. College of Education The college’s top-ranked programs prepare students to be Spartan teachers and to lead as educators, researchers or health professionals. College of Engineering Spartan engineers are working to bring science and innovation into everyday life, with the college providing education, research and training areas from energy to materials to mobility. College of Human Medicine Committed to education, discovery, disseminating new knowledge and providing service at home and abroad, the college is nationally recognized as a pioneer in community-based medical education. College of Law The law college is preparing a talented and diverse community of students to be tomorrow’s activists, leaders and lawyers. College of Music World-class music and academic excellence come together in the music college, which serves as a destination for talented students and faculty from around the world. Learn about upcoming performances and more. College of Natural Science Providing outstanding educational opportunities, the college is home to 29 departments and programs in the biological, physical and mathematical sciences. College of Nursing The college works to advance the nursing profession and provide optimal health care, with a commitment to advocacy, education, research and best practices. College of Osteopathic Medicine One of the largest graduate medical education systems in the nation, with three locations in Michigan, the college is ranked highly among U.S. medical schools. College of Social Science Home to social, behavioral and economic sciences, the college encourages students to discover and pursue social issues, while solving complex problems. College of Veterinary Medicine In addition to offering internationally recognized programs in the areas of Doctor of Veterinary Medicine, the college provides exceptional clinical services and education, and shares expertise on human and animal health for a safer world. Council of Graduate Students (COGS) COGS is an authorized student government dedicated to the well-being and professional interests of graduate and professional students through advocacy, leadership and unity. Department of Student Life Student Life provides opportunities for students to challenge themselves and reach their full potential. Follow the events and news that impact Spartan students most. Eat at State Find complete information about dining on the MSU campus — locations, menus, hours of operation and more. Eli and Edythe Broad Art Museum MSU’s Broad Art Museum is a dynamic contemporary art museum that serves as both a teaching institution and a cultural hub for East Lansing and the region. Follow events and programs at the Broad. Eli Broad College of Business One of the largest business schools in the country, the college develops transformational leaders who make business happen. Facility for Rare Isotope Beams FRIB is a scientific user facility that supports the mission of the Office of Nuclear Physics in the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science. It will advance scientists’ understanding about the properties of rare isotopes and provide research opportunities for scholars from around the globe. Forest Akers Golf Courses Home to Spartan golf, Forest Akers offers two of the best public golf courses in the state of Michigan. Gender and Sexuality Campus Center The center leads and collaborates on university-wide initiatives that prepare students to thrive and provide services for students marginalized by their sexuality or gender identity. Honors College One of the country’s most distinctive and extensive honors programs, the college emphasizes individualized academic program planning. Learn about admission requirements, programs and initiatives. Hub for Innovation in Learning and Technology A space for innovation, the Hub offers students new ways to think, learn, create and grow. Find resources for instruction, learning, research and collaboration. Human Resources HR provides information and resources about employment, benefits and more for Spartans @ Work. Inclusion and Intercultural Initiatives The office is focused on providing programming, education, training and funding that fosters an inclusive community at MSU. Infrastructure Planning and Facilities (IPF) IPF is responsible for the university’s physical environment. Follow for news and alerts about construction, green efforts and other projects. International Studies and Programs (ISP) ISP is the hub for international research, teaching and outreach at MSU. Discover the impact Spartans have on a global scale through programming, research and outreach opportunities. James Madison College In this policy-focused residential college, students study public affairs while developing strong communication, analytic and problem-solving skills. Kellogg Hotel and Conference Center In addition to being a go-to location for those visiting MSU, the Kellogg Center is a learning laboratory for students enrolled in the university’s School of Hospitality Business. Find info for dining, events and overnight stays. Live On Spartan life happens on campus. For information about campus residence options, MSU Neighborhoods and more, Live On. Lyman Briggs College Lyman Briggs is a residential college where science and humanities meet and students collaborate through interdisciplinary research and teaching. Find student success stories and college news. MI Spartan Impact MSU is making the state of Michigan a better place. Follow MI Spartan Impact and learn how Spartans are creating opportunities, inspiring innovation and providing economic growth. MSU Dairy Store Not only is it a sweet spot for the best ice cream in town, the Dairy Store is a plant, two retail spots, an educational and outreach center and more. MSU Extension By bringing the vast knowledge resources of MSU directly to individuals, communities and businesses throughout Michigan, MSU Extension makes a difference. MSU Libraries Check out more than books! Discover a wealth of resources and events available to faculty, staff and students. MSU Museum Science and culture meet at this on-campus museum, which serves as a public steward for nearly a million objects and specimens in anthropology, natural science, folk arts and history from around the world. MSU News The official Twitter account for@michiganstateu news. MSU Police MSU police officers are sworn police officers certified by the State of Michigan who handle all police and criminal matters on campus. Learn about the services provided, as well as safety tips, parking matters and more. MSU Safe Place MSU Safe Place provides free services and resources to Spartans and members of the surrounding community who need support because of relationship violence and/or stalking. MSU Student Health Services (Olin) On-campus, health-related services are provided to students to encourage personal health and promote a healthy learning environment. MSU Tech Store The store offers a range of retail products for both work and play, as well as tech assistance. MSU Union The MSU Union is a great place to study, eat and collaborate — and home to some of the biggest events on campus. Keep up with news, events and services. MSUCOM Statewide Campus System The Statewide Campus System is the Michigan State University College of Osteopathic Medicine educational consortium. The SCS exists to enhance the quality of postdoctoral education through the collective efforts of their member institutions. Neighborhood Student Success Collaborative (NSSC) NSSC offers support and services to help students achieve and navigate their college career. Office for Education Abroad The world is the classroom for Spartans. Learn about education abroad opportunities and destinations. Office of Financial Aid The office offers support and assistance to help students and families finance an MSU education. Find reminders and important dates, as well as a net price calculator for prospective students. Recreational Sports and Fitness Services Find information about sports, fitness and other recreational opportunities offered in multiple indoor and outdoor spaces on campus. Residence Halls Association (RHA) RHA is MSU’s on-campus student government. Learn how it’s improving the on-campus living experience and about upcoming events. Residential College in the Arts and Humanities RCAH is a residential college that inspires and prepares graduates to be collaborative learners and visionary change-makers through interdisciplinary study. Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities (RCPD) RCPD maximizes opportunities for those with disabilities, offering services, resources and advocacy that make MSU accessible and inclusive. Sparty Sparty the Spartan is the university’s fearless and lovable mascot, a figure known throughout the state of Michigan and recognized across the nation. Statewide Campus System College of Osteopathic Medicine (SCS) The SCS is an educational consortium that enhances the quality of postdoctoral education through the collective efforts of member institutions. Student Veterans Resource Center The Student Veterans Resource Center is dedicated to promoting the educational, career, and personal advancement of service members, veterans, and their families at Michigan State University. Sustainability Unified in our goals to maximize the impact of our campus while minimizing our footprint, we use our collective knowledge, intuition, drive and passion to address sustainability challenges in everything we do. Technology at MSU TechAtMSU offers tech support, tips and solutions to help Spartans achieve their goals. The Graduate School The school serves as a hub of information for graduate education and beyond, enhancing the quality of experiences available to graduate students. Undergraduate Education The office oversees academic policies for MSU’s nearly 40,000 undergraduate students, and coordinates programs and initiatives to help students achieve success. Undergraduate Research For a growing number of Michigan State University students, undergraduate research is a defining experience in their college careers. Hands-on research makes them better learners and critical thinkers. It allows them to apply new knowledge to their studies and helps them map paths to graduation and beyond. MSU offers hundreds of individual and group-based research and creative activity opportunities. University Archives and Historical Collections A history as rich as MSU’s is a history worth preserving — and sharing. University Archives and Historical Collections provides records management services and maintains historical collections that support research and instruction. University Licensing Programs University Licensing promotes licensed products for the purposes of supporting MSU student scholarships and special programming and maintaining high standards for the brand. University Outreach and Engagement University Outreach and Engagement connects university-wide efforts to the greater community, increasing public access to university expertise and providing opportunities for over 32,000 students to engage in service learning each year. University Research Corridor Michigan’s University Research Corridor (URC) is one of the nation’s top academic research clusters and the leading engine for innovation in Michigan and the Great Lakes region. An alliance of Michigan State University, the University of Michigan and Wayne State University, the URC is focused on increasing economic prosperity and connecting Michigan to the world. Vice President for Research and Graduate Studies The Office of Research & Innovation supports MSU’s research and creative activity by administering research funding, ensuring research integrity for both faculty and students, providing grants support services, fostering collaboration, licensing university inventions, and overseeing regulatory compliance. Wharton Center for Performing Arts Wharton Center is where the performing arts come alive and live performance thrives. Find info about upcoming Broadway shows, concerts, speakers and more. William C. Gast Business Library The Gast Business Library is more than just business books — it’s a network of resources available to all Spartans and Michigan residents. WKAR WKAR is the public media outlet for MSU. Find news, exclusive content, updates and information from MSU’s public media channels. Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services Health4U MSU Health Care Inc. Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Reports CARES Act Funding Student achievement and outcomes Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University