Menu Search Search TOGETHER WE WILL COVID-19 Vaccine Students & Parents Faculty & Staff Campus Visitors FAQs Resources Communications Home COVID-19 Vaccine COVID-19 vaccines have proven to be a safe and effective way to prevent serious illness and hospitalizations during the pandemic. All students, faculty and staff are required to be vaccinated against COVID-19 and boosted with an FDA-approved or -authorized or WHO-approved vaccine. Limited exemptions for medical or religious reasons will be provided, as well as online-only exemptions for students. Submit verification* Learn about exemptions *To update your vaccine verification form with your booster information, log in to the verification system and click on the "Edit info/Add booster" button to add your booster shot. A how-to guide can be found here. Visit the FAQs page for answers to questions about the requirements as well as general FAQs. Find a vaccine or booster near you By getting a safe and effective COVID-19 vaccine and booster, Spartans can protect themselves, each other and our communities. The most important thing you can do is get vaccinated as soon as possible and boosted as soon as eligible. I live near campus I don't live near campus In the U.S., anyone 5 years of age and older, including international students, is eligible to receive a COVID-19 vaccine. It is being distributed via doctor’s offices, hospital systems, pharmacies, grocery stores, county health departments and many other locations. All members of the MSU community, including students, faculty, staff, patients, retirees and their families, 12 and older can receive a COVID-19 vaccine through the MSU Health Care Pharmacy. Students can get a vaccine through Olin Health Center from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday by calling (517) 353-4660 to book an appointment. You can also find a COVID-19 vaccine near you by visiting vaccines.gov. For those with children 5-11 years old and who are already patients of MSU Health Care, more information, as well as scheduling options, can be found at MSU Health Care Pediatrics. COVID-19 vaccine boosters COVID-19 boosters are required for all MSU faculty, students and staff. It is important to understand the difference between a booster and an additional dose: An additional dose is sometimes needed for people who are moderately to severely immunocompromised because they were likely unable to build enough protection after the initial primary vaccine series. A booster is the next dose in a vaccination series to likely boost immunity that has waned over time. COVID-19 vaccine boosters are available to the general population and recommended for everyone ages 12 and older. A second booster dose also is available for those age 50 and older; though recommended by the CDC, it is not required to fulfill MSU's vaccine/booster mandate. Individuals are eligible for their first booster five months after a Pfizer vaccine, five months after a Moderna vaccine or two months after a Johnson & Johnson vaccine. Individuals 50 and older are eligible for their second booster four months after a Pfizer, Moderna or Johnson & Johnson vaccine. For those who need boosters or an additional dose: All members of the MSU community, including students, faculty, staff, patients, retirees and their families, can receive a Pfizer COVID-19 booster through the MSU Health Care Pharmacy. Even those individuals who originally received Moderna or Johnson & Johnson can receive a Pfizer booster at the pharmacy. Students can get a booster through Olin Health Center from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday by calling (517) 353-4660 to book an appointment. Initial vaccine doses, booster doses of all three vaccines, and the additional dose of Pfizer or Moderna for people who are immunocompromised are currently available at the ICHD COVID-19 Vaccine Clinic (5303 S. Cedar St, Lansing). To schedule an appointment visit hd.ingham.org/coronavirus or call (517) 887-4623 for assistance. Please bring your COVID-19 vaccination card and identification with you to your appointment, if possible. Please check vaccine/booster availability using vaccines.gov. Questions Anyone with questions about the vaccine or booster should contact their primary care doctor. Michigan residents also can call the Michigan COVID-19 Hotline at (888) 535-6136, Monday through Friday from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Ask the expert MSU experts address development, safety, efficacy and distribution of COVID-19 vaccines. Learn more Resources CDC COVID-19 vaccine page State of Michigan FAQs MSU FAQs COVID-19 Vaccine Testing and Reporting Travel COVID-19 Guidance 888-353-1294 Contact Information Site Map Privacy Statement Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 Visit: msu.edu MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. Notice of Nondiscrimination Spartans Will. © Michigan State University