Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University For: Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give Michigan State University About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More | Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now | Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours | Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility | Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More | Athletics MSUToday Featured stories April 4, 2022 What is an isotope? March 2, 2022 Historic firsts for Spartan women: Meet some of the trailblazing women who left their mark on MSU. Feb. 23, 2022 A group of MSU scientists and researchers studying critical areas explain how their research addresses five big questions about a changing climate. All Stories Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Athletics < About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More < Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now < Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours < Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility < Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give MSUToday > Alumni MSU.edu > Alumni Request a Transcript Need a transcript? Request one here. Request transcript Stay Informed Update your profile, follow us on social media and sign up for the e-newsletter. Get started Find an Alumni Club Connect with one of more than 100 alumni clubs worldwide. Learn more Doors to discovery The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams will be the preeminent user facility of its kind in the world Learn more Virtual alumni resources The novel coronavirus has altered many aspects of everyday life and the MSU Alumni Office is here to help you navigate some of the available resources from across campus. Learn more 500K+ Alumni worldwide MSU Connect Build your Spartan network! Connect now Story April 6, 2022 NBA star, Carhartt president and auto executive to address 2022 MSU graduates Story March 8, 2022 Andrea Brimmer: Embrace the slop Story March 31, 2022 The pipes of the MSU Alumni Chapel are calling Story March 28, 2022 Give Green Day nets $1.34M in support Featured Links Resources Donations Programs Registrar MSU Alumni Learn about services and events offered through MSU Alumni. Alumni Clubs Find an alumni club and events near you. Stay Informed Update your profile, follow MSU Alumni social media and sign up for the e-newsletter. Jobs at MSU Search career opportunities. Healing Assistance Fund Support services for Nassar survivors. MSUToday Your source for MSU news. Spartan Bookstore Shop for books and MSU gear. Spartans Serve Make an impact on your community. The State News MSU’s student newspaper. Budget and Performance Transparency Reporting State reporting on a range of operational areas. Annual Giving Ways to support MSU annually. Top Priorities and Campaigns Explore opportunities to make a difference for students. Make a Gift Choose a fund and donate to support Spartans. Plan a Gift Donate to MSU in the future. University Development Ways to give back to MSU. Alumni University In-person and online programs for lifelong enrichment. Grandparents University Create family memories at our three-day summer camp. Spartans Pathways Travel Explore the world with fellow Spartans. Alumni Grand Awards Recognize alumni making an impact in their companies and communities – and for MSU. Sparty Get to know Sparty and request him at your event. Homecoming Spartans come together to celebrate the green and white. Diploma Name Change/Replacement Need a new diploma? Here’s how to order it. Request a Transcript Need your transcript? Request one here. Our Commitment MSU is committed to ensuring a safe and inclusive campus community characterized by caring and respect for others. This promise extends to you whether you are a student, faculty or staff member, patient or visitor. Learn more Stay connected Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update to receive timely news, groundbreaking research, inspiring videos, Spartan profiles and more. Email address Sign Up Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update Thank you for subscribing! MSUToday Weekly Enjoy a curated collection of stories, photos, videos and featured content from across campus, delivered each Wednesday afternoon. MSUDaily Update Start your day with the latest Spartans Will! Featuring quick news bites, timely information, campus views, words of wisdom, essential info and a little inspiration, this email is delivered on weekday mornings. Please help us deliver content you’re most interested in. Check the topics you would like to read about. You are now signed up to receive the MSUToday Update. Coming to your inbox soon — a quick and easy way to keep up to date on the latest news about Spartans and the work they’re doing on campus and around the world. Go Green! Lisa Mulcrone, MSUToday editor Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports Submit Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services Health4U MSU Health Care Inc. Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Reports CARES Act Funding Student achievement and outcomes Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University