Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University For: Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give Michigan State University About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More | Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now | Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours | Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility | Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More | Athletics MSUToday Featured stories April 4, 2022 What is an isotope? March 2, 2022 Historic firsts for Spartan women: Meet some of the trailblazing women who left their mark on MSU. Feb. 23, 2022 A group of MSU scientists and researchers studying critical areas explain how their research addresses five big questions about a changing climate. All Stories Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Athletics < About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More < Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now < Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours < Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility < Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give MSUToday > MSU Facts MSU.edu > About > Facts Michigan State University is the nation’s premier land-grant university and one of the top research universities in the world. Every day, Spartans work to solve the most pressing global challenges while providing life-changing opportunities to a diverse and inclusive academic community. Campus Profile Located in East Lansing, three miles east of Michigan’s capitol in Lansing, MSU’s campus is one of the biggest and greenest in the nation. Top 100 Global university 49,695 Students 5,300 Acres Academics Top-ranked programs, high-quality opportunities and a diverse, inclusive and collaborative community enable Spartan students to create personalized paths that prepare them to succeed and lead. 200+ Academic programs 300+ Education abroad programs 39 MSU programs ranked in the top 25 nationally 16:1 Student-faculty ratio Outstanding record of students earning Rhodes, Goldwater and other prestigious national and international scholarships Entering class profile (middle 50% of fall 2021 entering class): high school GPA, 3.5-4.0; SAT combined score (math and critical reading), 1110-1310; ACT composite score, 23-29 Ranked in the top 10 nationally by U.S. News & World Report for learning communities, study abroad and service-learning offerings Rankings & Recognitions Member of the prestigious Association of the American Universities, a group of 65 universities widely regarded as among the top research-intensive institutions in North America No. 32 among public universities and No. 80 overall in U.S. News & World Report’s America’s Best Colleges 2021 Among the top 100 global universities, according to Times Higher Education's World University Rankings 2022 No. 35 among all public institutions in the country, according to Money’s 2021 “Best Colleges” ranking Among the top 100 patent-granting universities in the world, according to the National Academy of Inventors and the Intellectual Property Owners Association Named a gold-status veteran-friendly school by the Michigan Veterans Affairs Agency six years in a row Gold rating for sustainability achievements in 2019 through the Association for the Advancement of Sustainability in Higher Education Eight No. 1-ranked programs and 39 ranked in the top 25 nationally by U.S. News & World Report No. 1 in the nation for 28 straight years for graduate programs in elementary and secondary education and top nuclear physics graduate program in the nation, according to U.S. News & World Report No. 1 in the world for education, according to the 2020 Shanghai Global Ranking of Academic Subjects, a widely used international ranking of universities Communication program ranked No. 4 in the world, according to a 2020 ranking by Shanghai Global Ranking of Academic Subjects Full-time MBA program in the Broad College of Business ranked No. 19 among public U.S. universities in Bloomberg Businessweek’s ranking of Best U.S. Business Schools for 2021 Three MSU programs are ranked in the top 25 in the world by QS World University Rankings by Subject 2022 Communication and media: No. 9 globally, No. 6 in the U.S. Agriculture and forestry: No. 10 globally, No. 5 in the U.S. Education: No. 19 globally, No. 8 in the U.S. MSU has earned global accolades in the Times Higher Education 2022 Impact Rankings, which measure how more than 1,400 universities are making progress in working toward the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals. Tied for No. 33 in the world and No. 2 in the country overall No. 6 globally and No. 1 in the U.S. for SDG 2, “Zero Hunger” No. 25 globally and No. 4 in the U.S. for SDG 11, “Sustainable Cities and Communities” No. 26 globally and No. 1 in the U.S. for SDG 17, “Partnerships for the Goals” No. 27 globally and No. 4 in the U.S. for SDG 15, “Life on Land” No. 33 globally and No. 1 in the U.S. for SDG 1, “No Poverty” U.S. News & World Report Rankings MSU has 39 undergraduate and graduate programs ranked in the top 25 nationally by U.S. News & World Report, including eight No. 1-ranked programs. Undergraduate Supply chain management/logistics No. 1 Educational administration and supervision No. 4 Production/operations management No. 5 Agricultural engineering No.6 Management No. 13 Management information systems No. 19 International business No. 20 Accounting No. 21 Best undergraduate business programs No. 23 Graduate Elementary education No. 1 for 28 straight years Secondary education No. 1 for 28 straight years Curriculum/instruction No. 1 Nuclear physics No. 1 for 13 straight years Rehabilitation counseling (education) No. 1 Supply chain/logistics No. 1 Educational administration No. 2 Higher education administration No. 2 Industrial/organizational psychology No. 2 African history No. 3 Educational psychology No. 6 Education policy No. 8 Production/operations management No. 9 Criminal justice No. 9 Biosystems/agricultural engineering No. 12 Special education No. 12 Econometrics No. 16 African American history No. 17 Veterinary medicine No. 17 International business No. 20 Best Online Graduate Programs Curriculum and instruction No. 1 Criminal justice No. 5 Educational and instructional media design No. 5 Special education No. 7 Business No.12 Mechanical engineering No. 14 Education programs No. 24 Online Graduate Programs for Veterans Master's programs in business No. 3 Master's program in criminal justice No. 3 Master's programs in education No. 10 Community Wherever you go, there are Spartans working to make a better world. The MSU community includes more than 12,000 faculty and academic and support staff and an alumni network nearly half a million strong. 49,695 Students 38,574 Undergraduates, 11,085 graduate and professional 5,670 Faculty & academic staff 25.9% Students of color, 8.3% international students Research MSU’s rising research funding, nationally recognized faculty and programs, and innovative research facilities push the boundaries of discovery and yield solutions that make daily life better. $713M 2020 research expenditures 100+ Institutes and centers 2,700+ Faculty inventions Top 40 Research university, Washington Monthly 2021 rankings Facility for Rare Isotope Beams The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams will advance understanding of rare isotopes, develop applications for society and provide research opportunities for scientists and students from around the world. Learn More Making a Stronger Michigan MSU applies its vast knowledge and resources to create solutions in partnership with communities across the state and helps make Michigan a place of opportunity, economic growth and innovation. $5.8B Total economic impact statewide 80% Undergraduates from Michigan 65% Recent graduates employed in Michigan 277,000 Alumni living in Michigan Global Impact Spartans work together as part of a vibrant global campus community, creating partnerships around the world and making a lasting impact from East Lansing to East Africa. $78M Average annual funding for international work No. 1 Top-ranked public university for education abroad, U.S. News & World Report 1,400 Faculty and staff members engaged in international research and teaching 30+ Internationally focused centers Athletics Every day, Spartans of all abilities demonstrate athleticism, leadership, commitment and teamwork in varsity, adaptive, and club and intramural sports. 23 varsity squads: 11 intercollegiate sports for men and 12 intercollegiate sports for women 23 straight NCAA appearances by men’s basketball team, including 10 Final Fours Spartan Football Head Coach Mel Tucker named Big Ten Coach of the Year 2021 Big Ten Champions in women's golf; men's golfer James Piot named 2021 U.S. Amateur champion Women’s cross country team named Big Ten Champions in 2019 and 2021 92% all-time-high graduation success rate for student-athletes One of the largest intramural sports programs in the nation Nickname: Spartans Colors: Green and white Mascot: Sparty Conference: Big Ten Campus Life History Stay connected Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update to receive timely news, groundbreaking research, inspiring videos, Spartan profiles and more. Email address Sign Up Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update Thank you for subscribing! MSUToday Weekly Enjoy a curated collection of stories, photos, videos and featured content from across campus, delivered each Wednesday afternoon. MSUDaily Update Start your day with the latest Spartans Will! Featuring quick news bites, timely information, campus views, words of wisdom, essential info and a little inspiration, this email is delivered on weekday mornings. Please help us deliver content you’re most interested in. Check the topics you would like to read about. You are now signed up to receive the MSUToday Update. Coming to your inbox soon — a quick and easy way to keep up to date on the latest news about Spartans and the work they’re doing on campus and around the world. Go Green! Lisa Mulcrone, MSUToday editor Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports Submit Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services Health4U MSU Health Care Inc. Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Reports CARES Act Funding Student achievement and outcomes Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University