Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University For: Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give Michigan State University About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More | Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now | Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours | Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility | Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More | Athletics MSUToday Featured stories April 4, 2022 What is an isotope? March 2, 2022 Historic firsts for Spartan women: Meet some of the trailblazing women who left their mark on MSU. Feb. 23, 2022 A group of MSU scientists and researchers studying critical areas explain how their research addresses five big questions about a changing climate. All Stories Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Athletics < About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More < Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now < Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours < Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility < Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give MSUToday > Faculty & Staff MSU.edu > Faculty & Staff Email Log in to your MSU email. Log in to email EBS Log in to MSU's Enterprise Business System. Log in to EBS Human Resources Find resources from MSU HR. Visit HR site May 24, 2022 Eric Olmscheid appointed executive director of MSU’s Wharton Center May 24, 2022 MSU revises guidance for COVID-19 scenarios May 24, 2022 Cox Named Research Integrity Officer Story May 23, 2022 The week in photos: May 16–22, 2022 Story May 23, 2022 Liu receives highest honor for ecological contributions 'of extraordinary merit' Story May 23, 2022 Ask the Expert: COVID-19 and the recent surge in cases Spartan Voices Title IX Turns 50 More Story May 16, 2022 New MSU research supported by sustainable agriculture fund Featured Links Calendars Campus Associations Campus Resources Campus Services Facilities Human Resources Key Campus Initiatives System and Logins Technology In Memoriam MSU Holiday Schedule Check for employee days off. MSU Events Calendar See what’s happening on campus and submit events. Academic Calendar Find out when classes are in session. American Indian Faculty and Staff Association Educates Anishnaabe: Giving, Learning and Empowering. Asian Pacific American/Asian Faculty and Staff Association Advocates for the needs of Asian Pacific Islander Desai American/Asian (APIDA/A) faculty, staff, and administrators. Black Faculty, Staff and Administrators Association Promotes equity for Black faculty, staff, administrators and students. Chicano Latino Faculty Staff Association Contact: Danielle Flores Lopez (loresd3@msu.edu). Faculty Emeriti Association Engaging with the university and the community. North American Indian Faculty and Association For those who have ties to an indigenous or aboriginal heritage. Women’s Networking Association Connects professional women across campus. Academic Governance Faculty committees and forms of governance. Resources and Links Important employee resources with links. Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities How to get accommodations and resources. Lesbian, Bisexual, Gay and Transgender Resource Center Resources and support for the LGBTQ+ community. Hub for Innovation in Learning and Technology Designing and delivering transformative learning experiences. Women’s Advisory Committee for Support Staff Advises leadership about issues that affect women support staff. MSU HealthTeam A multispecialty medical practice at MSU. Health4U Find info about fitness, food, classes and nicotine cessation. Registrar Forms Find Office of the Registrar forms. Budget and Performance Transparency Reporting State reporting on a range of operational areas. Academic Advancement Network Supporting employees as they move through various stages of review, promotion and growth. Recreational Sports and Fitness Services Stay fit and healthy. MSU Bikes Learn about bike registration, repair and campus rental. Employee Assistance Program Free and confidential counseling services for employees. MSU WorkLife Office Resources to help all employees balance work and life. Surplus Store Shop or request a pickup. MSU Travel Office What to do before and after traveling for MSU. Transportation Using a university vehicle? Policies and procedures. University Services P-card, service requests, purchase orders and more. University Stores Shop for supplies and more for your department. Spartan Bookstore Find course materials. Custodial Services View and request services. Current Campus Construction Projects Latest construction updates from Infrastructure Planning and Facilities. Classroom Facilities Reports Submit concerns about classroom facilities. Maintenance Report issues with building conditions. Benefits Everything you need to learn about MSU benefits. HR Forms Find commonly requested forms for faculty and staff. Union Contracts Find copies of all union contracts representing MSU employees. Faculty Handbook Important policies, regulations and procedures. Support Staff Handbook Important policies, regulations and procedures. Performance Excellence Learn how employee performance is measured. On-Call and Temporary Employees Retirement, pay rates and policies. Retirees Retirement plans, investment vendors, discounts and more. Jobs Search MSU job postings. Our Commitment Learn what MSU is doing to foster a safer campus. Strategic Plan MSU is undergoing an inclusive and comprehensive strategic planning process to create a shared vision for the future and a common set of principles and values to guide our work. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Plan To recognize the importance of diversity, equity and inclusion as a foundation for all the work we do, MSU has launched a comprehensive DEI planning process. MSU Ideas Provide feedback on ways to improve MSU. MI Spartan Impact Michigan State University and partners across the state work to create a stronger, healthier, more prosperous tomorrow—for Michigan and the world. Enterprise Business Systems Log in to EBS to maintain your personnel info. MSU Alert Keep emergency contact info up to date. MSU People Find contact info for MSU students and employees. Andrew Filing System Network Storage Log in to AFS. Instructor Systems Log in to the Office of the Registrar. Desire2Learn Access MSU Distance Learning. Email Log in to your MSU email. Cascade Log in to Cascade Server Content Management System. Classroom Technology Learn about classroom technical capabilities. NetID Manage your NetID: reset, request, activate and more. Guide to Remote Access Resources to support employees working and teaching remotely. Tech Help and Support Don't sweat the tech stuff. Get help. Tech Resources Resource support for all campus tech needs. Tech Training Find tutorials and step-by-step directions. MSU Tech Store Shop computers, software, gaming and more. Telecommunications Voicemail access and more. Deaths Faculty and staff death notices. Our Commitment MSU is committed to cultivating a safe and inclusive campus community characterized by caring and respect for others. This promise extends to you whether you are a student, faculty or staff member, patient or visitor. Learn more It's Your Call Michigan State University has implemented a telephone and web reporting Hotline to help maintain adherence to ethical practices. The purpose of the Hotline is to provide an anonymous method to report known or suspected misconduct related to fiscal matters, conflicts of interest, employment, medical/HIPAA, research, safety, athletics, discrimination/harassment, privacy, retaliation, or any other area of legal, policy, or ethical concern not specifically listed. Not finding what you're looking for? More employee news Stay connected Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update to receive timely news, groundbreaking research, inspiring videos, Spartan profiles and more. Email address Sign Up Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update Thank you for subscribing! MSUToday Weekly Enjoy a curated collection of stories, photos, videos and featured content from across campus, delivered each Wednesday afternoon. MSUDaily Update Start your day with the latest Spartans Will! Featuring quick news bites, timely information, campus views, words of wisdom, essential info and a little inspiration, this email is delivered on weekday mornings. Please help us deliver content you’re most interested in. Check the topics you would like to read about. You are now signed up to receive the MSUToday Update. Coming to your inbox soon — a quick and easy way to keep up to date on the latest news about Spartans and the work they’re doing on campus and around the world. Go Green! Lisa Mulcrone, MSUToday editor Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports Submit Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services Health4U MSU Health Care Inc. Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Reports CARES Act Funding Student achievement and outcomes Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University