Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University For: Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give Michigan State University About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More | Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now | Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours | Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility | Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More | Athletics MSUToday Featured stories April 4, 2022 What is an isotope? March 2, 2022 Historic firsts for Spartan women: Meet some of the trailblazing women who left their mark on MSU. Feb. 23, 2022 A group of MSU scientists and researchers studying critical areas explain how their research addresses five big questions about a changing climate. All Stories Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Athletics < About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More < Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now < Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours < Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility < Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give MSUToday > Students MSU.edu > Students Email Log in to your MSU account. Log in to Email SIS Your gateway to academic records, resources and tools. Log in to SIS Desire2Learn Everything you need to access MSU Distance Learning. Visit D2L Website NEW Student Information System The Student Information System (SIS) is your gateway to academic records, resources and tools. View your degree progress, schedules, financial aid, current bills and more! For your historical documents, like bills, visit StuInfo.msu.edu. Log in to SIS Resources Academics Calendars Campus Resources Campus Services Learning Resources Opportunities Payments Student Life Technology Academic Calendar Dates, breaks and holidays. Academic Programs Check course catalogs and curriculum. Academic Support Don't stress. Find the extra support you need. Course Schedules Search for a class in SIS. Academic Requirements Report (Degree Audit) Plan your degree in SIS. Education Abroad Discover more than 275 programs in more than 60 countries. Flat-rate Tuition Take 12-18 credits for one flat rate. Libraries Where, when and how to hit the books. Registration Schedules, registration and tools for enrollment — all in SIS. Registrar Academic records, need-to-know dates and more. Academic Calendar Dates, breaks and holidays. MSU Events Calendar Don’t miss a thing. Get info on activities and events. Annual Security, Fire and Safety Report Information about public safety at MSU. Healing Assistance Fund Support services for the survivors of Larry Nassar. Libraries Where, when and how to hit the books. Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities Accommodations and resources that make MSU accessible. MSU Safe Place Find emergency shelter, counseling and more. Service Learning Find service opportunities that fit your interests. Spartan Bookstore Shop for textbooks and MSU gear. Connect with Alumni Tap into the Spartan alumni network. Student Food Bank Food is available for those in need year-round. Student Handbook (Spartan Life) Essential info for life as a Spartan. Student Health Insurance Learn about health care coverage. Student Life Office Make the most of your Spartan experience. Get involved. Student Veterans Resources for veterans and service members. Academic Support Don’t stress. Find the extra support you need. MSU Bikes Buy, rent, fix, store and ride. Campus and City Bus Services Get there fast with bus routes, schedules and more. Career Services Find on-campus jobs, plus internships and career help. Commencement Information you need to graduate. Counseling Center Need to talk? Find therapy and counseling services. Eat at State Menus and options to suit every appetite. Healing Assistance Fund Support services for Nassar survivors. International Student Support Student visa assistance and other resources. MSU Police File a report or get help from campus police. MSUToday Your source for MSU news. Olin Health Center Campus health services to keep you well. Parking Services Don’t get a ticket. Permits and more. Recreational Sports and Fitness Services Stay healthy and fit all year. Safe Place Find emergency shelter, counseling and more. Service Learning Find service opportunities that fit your interests. Spartan Bookstore Shop for books and MSU gear. Student Food Bank Food is available for those in need year-round. Student Veterans Resources for veterans and service members. Supportive Services Support for students who are first-gen, low-income or have a disability. The State News MSU’s student newspaper. Cable TV on Campus Get connected. Find your channel. Neighborhood Student Success Collaborative Find resources and support in your neighborhood. Online and Distance Learning Find remote learning support. Using the Library Make the most of MSU Libraries’ services. The Writing Center at MSU One-on-one and group writing consultations. Undergraduate Advising Need to see an academic adviser? Schedule an appointment. Career Services Network Your place for jobs, internships, career fairs and more. Undergraduate Education Office Connects you with resources you need – from orientation to graduation. Academic Scholars Honors College opportunities for first-year students. Internships@State Gain career experience — find an internship. Student Employment Campus jobs, work-study and more. Summer Study Learn about summer study options and requirements. Enrollment and Registration Enrollment and registration resources from the Registrar’s Office. Financial Aid Info about financial assistance and other forms of aid. Tuition and Billing Need to make a payment? Fee schedules and more. Budget and Performance Transparency Reporting State reporting on a range of operational areas. Associated Students of MSU MSU’s undergraduate student government. Council of Graduate Students MSU’s graduate and professional student government. Eat at State Menus and options to suit every appetite. Living in East Lansing What you need to know about being a city resident. Living Options Residence hall or apartment? On-campus options for all. MSU Events Calendar Don’t miss a thing. Find info on activities and events. Recreational Sports and Fitness Services Stay fit and healthy. Residence Hall Association MSU’s on-campus student government. Registered Student Organizations Choose from 900+ registered student organizations. Student Handbook (Spartan Life) Essential info for life as a Spartan. Student Life Office Make the most of your Spartan experience. Get involved. University Activities Board (UAB) On-campus entertainment, events and programming. Desire2Learn Everything you need to access MSU Distance Learning. Email Log in to your MSU account. Learning Online Network Log in to LON-CAPA. MSU Tech Store Shop computers, software, gaming and more. Tech Resources Resource support for all campus tech needs. Tech Help and Support Don’t sweat the tech stuff. Get help. Doors to discovery The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams will be the preeminent user facility of its kind in the world Learn more Story March 28, 2022 Students give back to Ukrainian refugees Story March 31, 2022 New bachelor’s degree in African American and African Studies now offered at MSU Story March 30, 2022 TRIO Student Support Services accepting new students Series Feb. 24, 2022 60 seconds of Spartan seasons Our Commitment MSU is committed to cultivating a safe and inclusive campus community characterized by caring and respect for others. This promise extends to you whether you are a student, faculty or staff member, patient or visitor. Learn more Stay connected Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update to receive timely news, groundbreaking research, inspiring videos, Spartan profiles and more. Email address Sign Up Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update Thank you for subscribing! MSUToday Weekly Enjoy a curated collection of stories, photos, videos and featured content from across campus, delivered each Wednesday afternoon. MSUDaily Update Start your day with the latest Spartans Will! Featuring quick news bites, timely information, campus views, words of wisdom, essential info and a little inspiration, this email is delivered on weekday mornings. Please help us deliver content you’re most interested in. Check the topics you would like to read about. You are now signed up to receive the MSUToday Update. Coming to your inbox soon — a quick and easy way to keep up to date on the latest news about Spartans and the work they’re doing on campus and around the world. Go Green! Lisa Mulcrone, MSUToday editor Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports Submit Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services Health4U MSU Health Care Inc. Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Reports CARES Act Funding Student achievement and outcomes Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University