Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University For: Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give Michigan State University About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More | Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now | Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours | Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility | Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More | Athletics MSUToday Featured stories April 4, 2022 What is an isotope? March 2, 2022 Historic firsts for Spartan women: Meet some of the trailblazing women who left their mark on MSU. Feb. 23, 2022 A group of MSU scientists and researchers studying critical areas explain how their research addresses five big questions about a changing climate. All Stories Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Athletics < About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More < Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now < Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours < Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility < Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give MSUToday > Leadership MSU.edu > About > Leadership Organizational Charts | Executive Officer Biographies Board of Trustees President Samuel L. Stanley Jr., M.D. Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs Teresa K. Woodruff Executive Vice President for Administration and Chief Information Officer Melissa Woo Executive Vice President for Health Sciences Norman J. Beauchamp Jr. Administration Audit, Risk and Compliance Marilyn K. Tarrant, Associate Vice President and Chief Audit, Risk and Compliance Officer Board of Trustees Eric Scorsone, Chief of Staff and Secretary to the Board of Trustees Civil Rights and Title IX Education and Compliance Karey Krohnfeldt, Acting Associate Vice President Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Jabbar R. Bennett, Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer Finance Lisa Frace, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer General Counsel Brian Quinn, Vice President and General Counsel Government Relations Kathleen M. Wilbur, Senior Vice President Human Resources Rick Fanning, Interim Associate Vice President Information Technology Services Chief Information Officer Infrastructure Planning and Facilities Dan Bollman, Vice President Intercollegiate Athletics Alan Haller, Vice President and Director Investment Phil Zecher, Chief Investment Officer Land Management Chuck Reid, Director Marketing, Public Relations and Digital Strategy Heather C. Swain, Vice President Office of the President Michael Zeig, Chief of Staff and Special Assistant to the President Public and Media Information Emily Guerrant, Vice President and University Spokesperson Public Safety and Police Department Marlon Lynch, Vice President and Chief of Police Research and Innovation Douglas Gage, Vice President Strategic Initiatives Bill Beekman, Vice President Student Life & Engagement Vennie G. Gore, Senior Vice President Title IX Nicole Schmidtke, Acting Coordinator University Advancement Kim Tobin, Vice President University Communications Merri Jo Bales, Vice President and Strategic Director University Physician Vacant Academic DEGREE-GRANTING COLLEGES Agriculture and Natural Resources Kelly Millenbah, Interim Dean Arts and Letters Christopher P. Long, Dean Eli Broad College of Business and Graduate School of Management Sanjay Gupta, Dean Communication Arts and Sciences Prabu David, Dean Education Ann Austin, Interim Dean Engineering Leo Kempel, Dean Human Medicine Aron Sousa, Interim Dean James Madison College Cameron G. Thies, Dean Lyman Briggs College Kendra Cheruvelil, Interim Dean Law Linda S. Greene, Dean MSU Libraries Joseph Salem Jr., Dean Music James Forger, Dean Natural Science Phillip Duxbury, Dean Nursing Leigh Small, Interim Dean Osteopathic Medicine Andrea Amalfitano, Dean Residential College in the Arts and Humanities Dylan Miner, Interim Dean Social Science Mary Finn, Dean Veterinary Medicine Birgit Puschner, Dean OTHER ACADEMIC UNITS Academic Human Resources Suzanne Lang, Associate Provost and Associate Vice President Academic Services, Enrollment Management and Academic Initiatives John Gaboury, Associate Provost Faculty and Academic Staff Development Marilyn Amey, Interim Associate Provost Facility for Rare Isotope Beams Thomas Glasmacher, Director Graduate School Thomas D. Jeitschko, Associate Provost for Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies and Dean of the Graduate School Honors College Christopher P. Long, Dean Inclusion and Intercultural Initiatives Jabbar R. Bennett, Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer International Studies and Programs Steven D. Hanson, Associate Provost and Dean Office of the Dean of Students Anthony T. Williams Jr., Assistant Vice President and Dean of Students Student-Athlete Support Services Todd Edwards, Executive Director Student Health & Wellness David Weismantel, Executive Director Teaching, Learning and Technology Thomas D. Jeitschko, Responsible Administrator Undergraduate Education Mark Largent, Associate Provost and Dean of Undergraduate Studies University Collections and Arts Initiatives Judith Stoddart, Associate Provost University Outreach and Engagement Laurie A. Van Egeren, Interim Associate Provost PDF Version (prints best at 8.5" x 14") E-mail changes Last Updated: 5-12-2022 Stay connected Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update to receive timely news, groundbreaking research, inspiring videos, Spartan profiles and more. Email address Sign Up Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update Thank you for subscribing! MSUToday Weekly Enjoy a curated collection of stories, photos, videos and featured content from across campus, delivered each Wednesday afternoon. MSUDaily Update Start your day with the latest Spartans Will! Featuring quick news bites, timely information, campus views, words of wisdom, essential info and a little inspiration, this email is delivered on weekday mornings. Please help us deliver content you’re most interested in. Check the topics you would like to read about. You are now signed up to receive the MSUToday Update. Coming to your inbox soon — a quick and easy way to keep up to date on the latest news about Spartans and the work they’re doing on campus and around the world. Go Green! Lisa Mulcrone, MSUToday editor Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports Submit Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services Health4U MSU Health Care Inc. Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Reports CARES Act Funding Student achievement and outcomes Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University