Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University For: Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give Michigan State University About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More | Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now | Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours | Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility | Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More | Athletics MSUToday Featured stories April 4, 2022 What is an isotope? March 2, 2022 Historic firsts for Spartan women: Meet some of the trailblazing women who left their mark on MSU. Feb. 23, 2022 A group of MSU scientists and researchers studying critical areas explain how their research addresses five big questions about a changing climate. All Stories Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Athletics < About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More < Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now < Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours < Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility < Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give MSUToday > Campus Life MSU.edu > Campus Life The MSU campus buzzes with ideas and energy, purpose and possibilities. Join in. Explore it all, from Big Ten sports and world-class museums to botanical gardens and one of the nation's largest residential living communities. Before you do, visit our Together We Will website to learn how we're keeping Spartans and visitors safe, including requiring face coverings, physical distancing and more. Get to Know MSU Historic buildings and modern architecture blend with park-like green spaces and gardens on MSU’s 5,300-acre campus. Explore Campus Living and Dining Our 27 residence halls and more than 30 dining options offer something for everyone. Learn More Athletics and Recreation Cheer for Big Ten sports or be part of one of the largest sports and fitness programs in the country. Learn More Be Inspired Spartan Bucket List MSU is a place of possibilities and traditions, and the things you do here will change your life. Check out — and check off — some of the opportunities and adventures that define the Spartan experience. Read More Our Diverse and Inclusive Community Spartans work to foster a community that respects and values a broad range of backgrounds and viewpoints in order to create opportunities for all. Learn More Get Involved Here are a few ways to get started Live off Campus Live on Campus Student Organizations Explore more than 900 student organizations. Student Life Engages students in active learning and encourages scholarship. Student Government Advocates for student needs and interests. Recreational Sports Promotes healthy lifestyles through fitness and recreation. Arts Join the world of arts and culture at MSU. Education Abroad Find academic programs on every continent. Internships and Student Jobs Career coaching assistance and student job listings. Volunteer Opportunities Become a leader by serving the community. Dining in the Community From coffee to pizza to late-night cookie delivery, you’ll find it just steps from campus. Off-campus Housing Apartments and houses for rent, roommate search and other off-campus housing resources. Local Shopping Textbooks, groceries and more can be found in East Lansing. Dining Local, organic and sustainable food options prepared by experienced chefs. Housing Living in one of our 27 residence halls puts you in the center of it all. Shopping The source for all your Spartan gear. Health, Wellness and Safety University Health Services Our Commitment Safety Counseling and Psychiatric Services Provides confidential counseling services for students. Olin Health Center Health care facility for students, offering primary care, physical therapy and other services. Student Health Insurance Health care coverage for students and their eligible dependents. WorkLife Office Offers information, resources and referrals to help employees navigate their work and personal lives. MSU is committed to cultivating a safe and inclusive campus community characterized by caring and respect for others. Visit Page East Lansing Police Committed to the prevention of crime and protection of life and property in East Lansing. MSU Police Works with the campus community to ensure a safe environment for all. MSU Safe Place Provides shelter and support services for those affected by domestic violence. MSU Youth Sports Offers training for youth program directors to promote a safe environment. Accessibility Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities The office creates a welcoming, accessible environment and compassionately challenges people to redefine disability. View Resources Office for Civil Rights and Title IX Education and Compliance The office works to cultivate a campus community that is free of discrimination, harassment and sexual assault. Visit Website Web Accessibility MSU is committed to using accessible website designs and providing equal access to all website users. Learn More Stay connected Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update to receive timely news, groundbreaking research, inspiring videos, Spartan profiles and more. Email address Sign Up Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update Thank you for subscribing! MSUToday Weekly Enjoy a curated collection of stories, photos, videos and featured content from across campus, delivered each Wednesday afternoon. MSUDaily Update Start your day with the latest Spartans Will! Featuring quick news bites, timely information, campus views, words of wisdom, essential info and a little inspiration, this email is delivered on weekday mornings. Please help us deliver content you’re most interested in. Check the topics you would like to read about. You are now signed up to receive the MSUToday Update. Coming to your inbox soon — a quick and easy way to keep up to date on the latest news about Spartans and the work they’re doing on campus and around the world. Go Green! Lisa Mulcrone, MSUToday editor Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports Submit Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services Health4U MSU Health Care Inc. Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Reports CARES Act Funding Student achievement and outcomes Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University