Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University For: Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give Michigan State University About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More | Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now | Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours | Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility | Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More | Athletics MSUToday Featured stories April 4, 2022 What is an isotope? March 2, 2022 Historic firsts for Spartan women: Meet some of the trailblazing women who left their mark on MSU. Feb. 23, 2022 A group of MSU scientists and researchers studying critical areas explain how their research addresses five big questions about a changing climate. All Stories Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Athletics < About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More < Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now < Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours < Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility < Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give MSUToday > Opening the doors to discovery The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams is accelerating scientific breakthroughs The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams will be the preeminent user facility of its kind in the world — and home to the world’s most powerful heavy-ion accelerator — funded by the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science, the state of Michigan and Michigan State University. FRIB creates opportunities for advancing basic science breakthroughs and developing applications for a healthier, safer, more sustainable world. Leaders in nuclear science On MSU’s campus, scientists will investigate the makings of atomic nuclei and how the universe formed while helping to drive innovation in medicine, nuclear security, environmental science and more.   Washington Post: Opening doors to discovery MSU’s leadership in nuclear science spans more than five decades. Now, FRIB will provide researchers with the most advanced accelerator technology to conduct next-generation rare-isotope experiments. Read More Isotopes in action At FRIB, the world’s most powerful heavy-ion accelerator propels atoms at half the speed of light, resulting in collisions that produce rare isotopes. Many have never been seen on earth — prime territory for discovery. What is an isotope? The rare isotopes produced only at FRIB will be game changers for the nuclear science community and offer many potential benefits to society. But what exactly is an isotope? MSU scientists Kurt Zinn and Artemis Spyrou explain.   Discover More Educating the next generation Home to the top nuclear physics graduate program in the nation for more than a decade, MSU is shaping the next generation of nuclear scientists who will advance the boundaries of knowledge. FRIB will provide unparalleled research opportunities and attract top graduate and undergraduate students in physics and related fields. Advancing science and opportunity “FRIB will become the best place to study rare isotopes. It will open the doorways that we have never seen before.” - Paul Guèye, associate professor of nuclear physics at FRIB and MSU Department of Physics and Astronomy Read More Story April 4, 2022 Student View: No better place for accelerator science Story April 28, 2022 Student View: A chance opportunity that changed my life Story April 4, 2022 Student View: Harvesting rare isotopes No. 1 nuclear physics graduate program for past 13 years 10% of nation's nuclear science Ph.D. holders educated at MSU annually 1st accelerator-based user facility located on a university campus Accelerating innovation and economic activity Having a scientific user facility at a leading research university will create a ripple effect of benefits for years to come. Over the next two decades, FRIB is anticipated to contribute more than $4 billion to Michigan’s economy, creating skilled jobs for the local workforce, attracting companies and top talent, and developing new technologies and partnerships. Accelerating science — and economic benefits The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams and its activities already are creating many down-to-earth benefits that will only grow after the facility becomes fully operational. Experiments at the facility will generate new knowledge about the makings of atomic nuclei and the origins of the universe as well as new technologies that are yet to be imagined for use in a variety of industries. Read More $4.4B projected impact on Michigan economy 1,600 scientists will engage with FRIB 80% of isotopes projected to exist can be produced at FRIB An epicenter for innovation The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams at MSU is where the doors to discovery are thrown open. Where nuclear science researchers from around the globe will perform experiments that deepen our understanding of the universe and lead to real-world applications in medicine, industry and homeland security. Watch Video Learn about MSU's top nuclear physics grad program Visit FRIB homepage Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services Health4U MSU Health Care Inc. Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Reports CARES Act Funding Student achievement and outcomes Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University