Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University For: Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give Michigan State University About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More | Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now | Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours | Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility | Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More | Athletics MSUToday Featured stories April 4, 2022 What is an isotope? March 2, 2022 Historic firsts for Spartan women: Meet some of the trailblazing women who left their mark on MSU. Feb. 23, 2022 A group of MSU scientists and researchers studying critical areas explain how their research addresses five big questions about a changing climate. All Stories Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Athletics < About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More < Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now < Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours < Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility < Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give MSUToday > Academics MSU.edu > Academics A top global research university, MSU prepares you to compete with the best in the world and to make a better tomorrow. High-caliber opportunities, world-class facilities and an inclusive, collaborative community enable you to create a powerful, personalized path. Majors, Degrees and Programs We offer 200 academic programs across 17 degree-granting colleges. Discover undergraduate, graduate and pre-professional offerings. Learn more 39 Undergraduate and graduate programs ranked in the top 25 nationally by U.S. News & World Report 200+ Academic programs Resources Academic Information Academic Support Learning Resources Honors Programs Financial Info Undergraduate Education Graduate Education Campus Life International Resources Online/Continuing Education Academic Calendar Important dates and holidays for each semester. Enrollment and Registration Enroll in courses and build your schedule. Colleges View MSU colleges, departments and programs. Majors, Degrees and Programs Search academic programs, from undergrad to doctoral. Academic Program Catalog Find academic program information by college. Course Descriptions Search by semester, subject or course number. Academic Integrity Learn about academic expectations and policies. Commencement All the details to get you through graduation day. MSU Libraries Resources, services and technology at your fingertips. Undergraduate Advising Stay on track and talk to an adviser. Degree Navigator Login Manage progress to your degree with online advising. MSU Neighborhoods: Promoting student success A hub for tutors, advisers, health services and more. Guide to Remote Access Support and resources for students learning online. Technology Resources Resources that help you connect, collaborate and learn. Collaborative Learning Center Academic support services and a team of peer educators. Supportive Services Assistance for students from disadvantaged backgrounds. Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities Accommodation and resources that make MSU accessible. Neighborhood Student Success Collaborative Find resources and support in your neighborhood. Online and Distance Learning Find remote learning support. Using the Library Make the most of MSU Libraries’ services. The Writing Center at MSU One-on-one and group writing consultations. Career Services Network Your place for jobs, internships, career fairs and more. Undergraduate Education Office Connects you with resources you need, from orientation to graduation. Undergraduate Research Research and creative projects for students in any major. Education Abroad Discover more than 275 programs in more than 60 countries. Honors College Admission and program information for gifted students. Academic Scholars Invitation-only program for first-year students. Professorial Assistantship Program For top incoming students assisting faculty with research. Billing and Registration Billing and registration for a variety of services. Financial Aid Info about financial assistance and other forms of aid. Tuition and Billing Need to make a payment? Fee schedules and more. Budget and Performance Transparency Reporting State reporting on a range of operational areas. Office of Undergraduate Education Helping students learn, persist and graduate on time. Flat-rate Tuition Build a schedule that's right for you. Education Abroad Explore academic programs on every continent. Undergraduate Research Find research and creative activities in all fields. Living-learning Programs Live and learn alongside students with similar interests. Summer Study Find summer learning opportunities on and off campus. Hub for Innovation in Learning and Technology Space for innovative learning, research and teaching. Graduate School Explore graduate education and apply. Departments and Programs Search and filter graduate programs by department. Student Organizations Explore more than 900 student organizations. Student Life Creating opportunities for students. Student Government Advocating for student needs and interests. Recreational Sports Promoting healthy lifestyles through recreation. Arts Explore the world of arts and culture at MSU. Education Abroad Find academic programs on every continent. Internships and student jobs Career coaching assistance and student job listings. Volunteer Opportunities Become a leader by serving the community. Athletics and Recreation Varsity, club and intramural sports for all Spartans. International Studies and Programs Hub for international research, teaching and outreach. Office for International Students and Scholars Resources for students, scholars and families. Student and Scholar Programs Opportunities abroad for students, staff and faculty. Office of International Health & Safety Safety info and preparation for international travel. Visiting International Professional Program Non-degree professional education programs. Education Abroad Explore academic programs on every continent. Online Programs Online degree and certificate programs. Off-campus Programs Off-campus programs and learning opportunities. Lifelong Education Access to MSU courses for non-degree students. Executive Development Programs Custom, open or online programs for executive development. Education Abroad More than 275 education abroad programs in more than 60 countries across all continents make it easy for Spartans to broaden their horizons. Learn more Undergraduate Research Opportunities to participate in undergraduate research and creative endeavors help Spartans build key skills and leadership experience. Learn more Honors College Enjoy unparalleled academic freedom and flexibility while tailoring a rigorous program of study that fits all of your interests. Learn more Neighborhoods: Promoting Student Success MSU’s 27 undergraduate residence halls are grouped into five neighborhoods that provide a full range of programs, activities and support services. Learn more Stay connected Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update to receive timely news, groundbreaking research, inspiring videos, Spartan profiles and more. Email address Sign Up Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update Thank you for subscribing! MSUToday Weekly Enjoy a curated collection of stories, photos, videos and featured content from across campus, delivered each Wednesday afternoon. MSUDaily Update Start your day with the latest Spartans Will! Featuring quick news bites, timely information, campus views, words of wisdom, essential info and a little inspiration, this email is delivered on weekday mornings. Please help us deliver content you’re most interested in. Check the topics you would like to read about. You are now signed up to receive the MSUToday Update. Coming to your inbox soon — a quick and easy way to keep up to date on the latest news about Spartans and the work they’re doing on campus and around the world. Go Green! Lisa Mulcrone, MSUToday editor Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports Submit Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services Health4U MSU Health Care Inc. Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Reports CARES Act Funding Student achievement and outcomes Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University