Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University For: Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give Michigan State University About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More | Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now | Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours | Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility | Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More | Athletics MSUToday Featured stories April 4, 2022 What is an isotope? March 2, 2022 Historic firsts for Spartan women: Meet some of the trailblazing women who left their mark on MSU. Feb. 23, 2022 A group of MSU scientists and researchers studying critical areas explain how their research addresses five big questions about a changing climate. All Stories Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Athletics < About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More < Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now < Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours < Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility < Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give MSUToday > About MSU MSU.edu > About Michigan State University has been advancing the common good with uncommon will for more than 165 years. A top global university, MSU pushes the boundaries of discovery to make a better world while providing students with life-changing opportunities. TOP RANKINGS No. 32 Top public U.S. universities Gold Sustainability rating Top 100 Global university No. 1 Nuclear physics graduate program MSU Facts Quick facts about MSU’s history, distinctions and campus community. Learn more Career Outcomes Data about recent MSU graduates, including placement rates and salaries. MSU has a 95% placement rate for recent graduates, nearly 12% above the national average. Learn more Institutional Diversity and Inclusion MSU provides all Spartans with opportunities to reach their full academic and professional potential. Learn more Experience MSU Campus Life The MSU campus buzzes with ideas and energy, purpose and possibility created by Spartans. Join in. Read more Experience MSU Visit MSU is one of the biggest, greenest campuses in the country, welcoming visitors from around the world. Read more Board of Trustees Information about board members, meetings, decisions, bylaws and policies. Learn more Office of the President Presidential actions, initiatives and communications. Learn more Our Commitment MSU is committed to cultivating a safe and inclusive campus community characterized by caring and respect for others. This promise extends to you whether you are a student, faculty or staff member, patient or visitor. Learn more Resources Leadership Initiatives & Distinctions History Connect with MSU Businesses & MSU Leadership Complete list of campus leadership. Board of Trustees Bios and information about meetings, bylaws and more. Office of the President Presidential actions, initiatives and communications. Office of the Provost Matters that affect academic programs, research and outreach involving faculty, students and staff. Office of the EVP for Administrative Services Access administrative resources — from HR to IT. Executive Officers Bios of MSU executive officers. Deans Bios of MSU college deans. Associate Provosts Bios of MSU associate provosts. Organizational Chart Map of central administration and academic leadership. Academic Governance Faculty Senate, University Council, committees and more. Accreditation Accreditation information and memberships. Student Achievement Measure Broad picture of student progress and completion. Mission Statement Statements on mission, free speech and inclusion. MSU Facts See what makes MSU a top global research university. Diversity & Inclusion Learn how MSU is building inclusive communities. Sustainability at MSU Collaborating to create a greener campus and world. MI Spartan Impact Discover how Spartans make an impact across Michigan. University Research Corridor MSU and others lead innovation in Michigan. Spartan Success See how Spartans are succeeding upon graduation. University Archives & Historical Collections Explore more than 160 years of MSU history. Historic Document, Image, Film & Audio Archive Online access to various media that document life at MSU. MSU History Key moments in MSU history. MSU Social Media Directory Connect with MSU social networks. People Directory Find contact info for faculty, staff and students. Contact MSU Have a question about MSU? We're here to help. Visit Campus Campus maps, lodging and more. MSUToday News and stories of Spartan achievements and activities. University Advancement Building lasting relationships with alumni and friends. University Outreach & Engagement Partnering and connecting with communities. Government & External Relations Advocating on behalf of MSU. MSU Extension Bringing MSU knowledge resources to Michigan residents. MSU Business-Connect Helping companies leverage MSU's wealth of resources. Product Center Create and launch food and ag products and businesses. Economic Development Working with local partners to strengthen Michigan's economy. Spartan Innovations Turning MSU research technologies into successful businesses. Statewide Resource Network Programs and services for Michigan professionals. Spartan Youth Programs Programs and activities for Pre-K through 12th grade. Sports Camps Registration info for youth and summer sports camps. Music Camps Youth summer camps for a range of interests and abilities. Community Music School Music experiences, education and therapy services. Corporate & Foundation Relations Partnering to advance teaching, research and outreach. Support MSU Help MSU make a difference. Spartan Advocate Show support for MSU and higher education in Michigan. Available Technologies Technologies that can be searched and licensed. Doing Business with MSU Information you need to work with MSU. Help for Small & New Businesses Support and resources for entrepreneurs. License an MSU Invention Process details and resources needed to license. MSU Business-Connect Helping companies leverage MSU's wealth of resources. MSU Trademarks & Licensing Protect the brand by using marks and symbols properly. MSU Purchasing Details on how to work with MSU Purchasing. Negotiate a Research Contract with MSU Access to researchers, research and resources. Product Center Create and launch food and ag products and businesses. Recruit Students Assistance with connecting with students on campus. Rent Meeting Space Host a conference, meeting or event on campus. Shop.msu.edu Where to get your Spartan gear. Spartan Innovations Turning MSU research technologies into businesses. Support MSU Choose a fund and donate to support Spartans. MSU Facts History Stay connected Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update to receive timely news, groundbreaking research, inspiring videos, Spartan profiles and more. Email address Sign Up Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update Thank you for subscribing! MSUToday Weekly Enjoy a curated collection of stories, photos, videos and featured content from across campus, delivered each Wednesday afternoon. MSUDaily Update Start your day with the latest Spartans Will! Featuring quick news bites, timely information, campus views, words of wisdom, essential info and a little inspiration, this email is delivered on weekday mornings. Please help us deliver content you’re most interested in. Check the topics you would like to read about. You are now signed up to receive the MSUToday Update. Coming to your inbox soon — a quick and easy way to keep up to date on the latest news about Spartans and the work they’re doing on campus and around the world. Go Green! Lisa Mulcrone, MSUToday editor Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports Submit Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services Health4U MSU Health Care Inc. Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Reports CARES Act Funding Student achievement and outcomes Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University