Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University For: Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give Michigan State University About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More | Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now | Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours | Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility | Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More | Athletics MSUToday Featured stories April 4, 2022 What is an isotope? March 2, 2022 Historic firsts for Spartan women: Meet some of the trailblazing women who left their mark on MSU. Feb. 23, 2022 A group of MSU scientists and researchers studying critical areas explain how their research addresses five big questions about a changing climate. All Stories Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports About Admissions Academics Research Campus Life Athletics < About Overview MSU Facts History Visit Leadership Diversity & Inclusion Spartan Success Mission Statement Find the latest guidance on MSU's COVID-19 precautions. Learn More < Admissions Overview Application Requirements Application Deadline Admitted Students / Next Steps Cost & Financial Aid Majors, Degrees & Programs Life at MSU Schedule a Visit Join the next generation of Spartans! Apply now < Academics Overview Colleges & Programs Education Abroad Graduate Programs Honors College Undergraduate Research Online Programs Academic Calendar Enrollment & Registration Advising Libraries Resource Center for Persons with Disabilities More than 200 undergraduate and graduate programs Find yours < Research Overview Global Impact Initiative Centers & Institutes Office of Research and Innovation Student Research AgBioResearch MSU Innovation Center University Research Corridor MSU is driving the future of autonomous vehicles Visit MSU Mobility < Campus Life Overview Live on Campus Live off Campus Latest News Diversity & Inclusion Our Commitment Office for Civil Rights & Title IX Visit MSU More than 50,000 students from all 50 states and 133 other countries Read More Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give MSUToday > Research MSU.edu > Research Every day, Spartan researchers push the boundaries of discovery to find solutions for a smarter, safer and healthier tomorrow. Ranked among the top 100 research universities in the world, MSU is home to No. 1-ranked graduate programs, innovative research centers and an international community of scientists and scholars. $713M 2020 research expenditures 100+ Institutes and centers 2,700+ Faculty inventions Story May 26, 2022 Working to stop the spread of breast cancer Story May 25, 2022 Bringing back Michigan’s lake sturgeon Facility for Rare Isotope Beams The Facility for Rare Isotope Beams will advance understanding of rare isotopes, develop applications for society and provide research opportunities for scientists and students from around the world. Learn more Undergraduate Research At MSU, undergraduate students have unparalleled access to the assets and opportunities available at a Big Ten university with an international reputation for life-changing research. Learn more Office of Research & Innovation The Office of Research & Innovation supports the research and creative activity of faculty and students, fostering a deeper understanding of individuals, society and the world. Learn more Health Spartans are making a difference to individuals and communities near and far by bringing new approaches, discoveries and treatments to bear on community, human and animal health. Learn more Science & Technology Spartan researchers are leading the way to new discoveries every day — from increasing the efficiency of photosynthesis to developing autonomous vehicle technology to fighting global pathogens. Learn more Global Impact Initiative MSU is recruiting more than 100 new faculty researchers in critical areas where the university can make the most impact, including precision medicine, advanced physical sciences and big data. Learn more AgBioResearch AgBioResearch funds the research of more than 325 scientists on campus and at 14 research centers across Michigan. Their efforts support agriculture throughout our state while creating the research base for programs and initiatives that boost the economy and conserve natural resources. Learn more Kellogg Biological Station Kellogg Biological Station is MSU’s largest off-campus education complex and one of North America’s premier inland field stations. Learn more Resources Research Highlights Student Research Research & Business International Research & Engagement Arts Making an impact on culture. Business Solving global business challenges. Environment Creating a greener tomorrow. Health Discovering solutions for a healthier world. Science & Technology Leading the way in discovery. Conducting Research at MSU Supporting research and creative activity. Sponsored Programs Administration Administering the research award process. Centers & Institutes See some of MSU's research facilities on campus and around the state. Expertise & Resources Find experts, research projects and publications. Research Funding Information about funding sources and expenditures. Research Integrity Safeguarding the integrity of research and creative activities. University Research Corridor Michigan’s university research cluster drives innovation. Student Research News The latest research from undergraduate and graduate students. Undergraduate Research Connecting students to research opportunities. Innovation & Entrepreneurship Putting knowledge and discovery to work. AgBioResearch Funds agriculture research on campus and across Michigan. Bioeconomy Institute Accelerates technologies from the lab to manufacturing. Product Center Develops and commercializes products and businesses. International Studies & Programs Hub for international research, teaching and outreach. Global Engagement International research themes, global regions and partnerships. Stay connected Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update to receive timely news, groundbreaking research, inspiring videos, Spartan profiles and more. Email address Sign Up Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update Thank you for subscribing! MSUToday Weekly Enjoy a curated collection of stories, photos, videos and featured content from across campus, delivered each Wednesday afternoon. MSUDaily Update Start your day with the latest Spartans Will! Featuring quick news bites, timely information, campus views, words of wisdom, essential info and a little inspiration, this email is delivered on weekday mornings. Please help us deliver content you’re most interested in. Check the topics you would like to read about. You are now signed up to receive the MSUToday Update. Coming to your inbox soon — a quick and easy way to keep up to date on the latest news about Spartans and the work they’re doing on campus and around the world. Go Green! Lisa Mulcrone, MSUToday editor Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports Submit Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services Health4U MSU Health Care Inc. Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Reports CARES Act Funding Student achievement and outcomes Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University