Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University Michigan State University For: Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give MSUTODAY Arts | Business | Campus | Environment | Health | Life | Science and Technology | Sports | View All MSUTODAY Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports View All Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give March 2, 2022 Historic firsts for Spartan women Meet some of the trailblazing women who left their mark on MSU Since 1870 when the first female students were admitted to Michigan State University, then the Michigan Agricultural College, Spartan women have been making their mark on the world. From the initial 10 students to now making up more than half of MSU’s enrollment, women are an integral part of the university’s history and its future. Learn about some of the early trailblazers who stepped into roles traditionally held by men to earn degrees, lead departments and create successful careers. Eva Coryell, third from the left in the back row of this image, was the first woman to graduate from MSU in 1879 with a Bachelor of Science. Here, Coryell is pictured with her classmates in front of the Rock in its original location near the current site of Beaumont Tower. In 1886, Mary Jane Cliff Merrill Carpenter became the first woman to earn a Master of Science at the university. She later became the first female member of the staff as a librarian. Known to many as simply Landon Hall, its namesake was the first woman instructor on campus, who also served as a librarian from 1891 to 1932. Linda Landon is credited for facilitating the expansion of the Library, doubling it in size and quadrupling the number of books available for students. Myrtle Craig Mowbray stands out on this yearbook page as the first Black woman to graduate from MSU in 1907. Mowbray would go on to teach at several high schools, colleges and universities in the Kansas City area before retiring from the faculty at Lincoln University. This page of a commencement program serves as a historical record of Julia Loomis Matthews, who earned a doctorate in 1930. She was the first woman to receive a doctorate from MSU and just the second student to do so in chemistry. Growing up less than 25 miles from campus, Ethel V. Lyon was the first woman granted permission to enroll in engineering in 1932. After graduation, she went on to work as a lighting adviser in the electrical industry in Grand Rapids. 01 / 06 These women and many more were featured in a 2021 special exhibit at the MSU Main Library, “Women at MSU: 151 Groundbreaking Years.” Check out the complete collection on the MSU Libraries website. All images courtesy of Michigan State University Archives and Historical Collections. By: Melody Kindraka, Kelsie Lane and Emilie Lorditch Campus Story May 31, 2022 Capturing carbon with crops, trees and bioenergy Story May 31, 2022 Remembering Vincent Chin Story May 31, 2022 How Spartan simulations could help get PFAS out of soil Stay connected Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update to receive timely news, groundbreaking research, inspiring videos, Spartan profiles and more. Email address Sign Up Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update Thank you for subscribing! MSUToday Weekly Enjoy a curated collection of stories, photos, videos and featured content from across campus, delivered each Wednesday afternoon. MSUDaily Update Start your day with the latest Spartans Will! Featuring quick news bites, timely information, campus views, words of wisdom, essential info and a little inspiration, this email is delivered on weekday mornings. Please help us deliver content you’re most interested in. Check the topics you would like to read about. You are now signed up to receive the MSUToday Update. Coming to your inbox soon — a quick and easy way to keep up to date on the latest news about Spartans and the work they’re doing on campus and around the world. Go Green! Lisa Mulcrone, MSUToday editor Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports Submit Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services Health4U MSU Health Care Inc. Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Reports CARES Act Funding Student achievement and outcomes Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University