Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University Michigan State University For: Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give MSUTODAY Arts | Business | Campus | Environment | Health | Life | Science and Technology | Sports | View All MSUTODAY Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports View All Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give Sept. 2, 2021 Excellence for impact At Michigan State University, Spartan excellence and our will to make a difference are making a better tomorrow for all. As one of the nation’s leading research institutions, we’re driving discoveries to address global challenges, educating the next generation of leaders and partnering with communities to create healthier, more sustainable futures for Michigan and the world. Spartans Will. Campus Story May 31, 2022 Capturing carbon with crops, trees and bioenergy Story May 31, 2022 Remembering Vincent Chin Story May 31, 2022 How Spartan simulations could help get PFAS out of soil Stay connected Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update to receive timely news, groundbreaking research, inspiring videos, Spartan profiles and more. Email address Sign Up Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update Thank you for subscribing! MSUToday Weekly Enjoy a curated collection of stories, photos, videos and featured content from across campus, delivered each Wednesday afternoon. MSUDaily Update Start your day with the latest Spartans Will! Featuring quick news bites, timely information, campus views, words of wisdom, essential info and a little inspiration, this email is delivered on weekday mornings. Please help us deliver content you’re most interested in. Check the topics you would like to read about. You are now signed up to receive the MSUToday Update. Coming to your inbox soon — a quick and easy way to keep up to date on the latest news about Spartans and the work they’re doing on campus and around the world. Go Green! Lisa Mulcrone, MSUToday editor Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports Submit Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services Health4U MSU Health Care Inc. Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Reports CARES Act Funding Student achievement and outcomes Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University