Jump to Header Jump to Main Content Jump to Footer Skip navigation links Michigan State University Michigan State University For: Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give MSUTODAY Arts | Business | Campus | Environment | Health | Life | Science and Technology | Sports | View All MSUTODAY Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports View All Students Alumni Faculty & Staff Apply Visit Give May 26, 2022 Supporting future research and discovery in Detroit Ron and Heather Boji donate $5 million to Henry Ford Health and MSU Partnership In a show of support for the innovative partnership between Henry Ford Health and Michigan State University, Detroit philanthropists Ron and Heather Boji have made a foundational donation of $5 million. The philanthropic support is intended to help fund the new Health Sciences Center for joint research work. The donation was announced this week during a reception at the Bojis’ home in Orchard Lake. Officials from each institution came together to celebrate the donation and discuss future plans for the partnership. “Henry Ford Health and Michigan State University entered into our historic partnership to be acatalyst for change,” said Wright Lassiter, President and CEO of Henry Ford Health. “Together our organizations have the collective knowledge, skills and drive to usher in a new era of medical education and research excellence which will transform how people receive and experience care. We take one step closer to achieving our ambitious goals thanks to the profound generosity of Henry Ford Foundation Board member and MSU alumnus, Ron Boji.” The partners have accelerated the planning and design for the new joint research building that tightly aligns basic and translational research, fueling innovation and discovery through an academically and clinically integrated network of health care providers, scientists, academics, and public health practitioners. “This is an exciting next step in the partnership between Michigan State University and Henry Ford Health,” said President Samuel L.StanleyJr., M.D. “We cannot thank Ron and Heather enough for their leadership and setting an example of how best to help improve healthcare access and support a transformational research program that will work to serve everyone in our state. The advancement and discovery that comes from our two organizations joining will impact academic and clinical opportunities and serve as a model for the entire nation. Our new joint facility will be the epicenter of this work, and the Boji’s gift is the first step in making it a reality. Their dedication to our effort is greatly appreciated.” A shared building will allow consolidation of Henry Ford Health and MSU research activities and provide critical space for recruitment. Architectural planning is underway with a hopeful completion date of 2025. Plans for the exact location of the building are still being finalized but it will be constructed on Henry Ford Health’s Detroit campus footprint, south of W. Grand Blvd. “Both institutions hold a special place in our family’s heart,” expressed Ron Boji, President and CEO of Boji Group. “The incredible care and compassion of Henry Ford Health helped aid my father’s recovery from a stroke, and MSU gave me the foundation that helped build Boji Group alongside my father. Heather and I are so excited that two of our daughters have decided to attend college there as well, one as a student in the same construction management program I graduated from.” Another major partnership component includes a fully integrated cancer program, which will combine research and clinical applications to create a national and international destination for access to the most advanced cancer therapies and research, including a joint effort to achieve National Cancer Institute designation. “This remarkable gift is a true cause for celebration,” said Mary Jane Vogt, Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer at Henry Ford Health. “We are profoundly grateful to Heather and Ron Boji for making the first major philanthropic commitment towards our incredible partnership with MSU. The generosity of the Boji family and their passion for both organizations sets an inspiring example of how our generous donors are accelerating innovation.” Additionally, with both institutions sharing a long history of and commitment to healthcare education and training, MSU and Henry Ford will expand education opportunities for physicians, nurses and other health care professionals, focused on diversity, recruitment and retention, and revolutionized training models. This article originally ran on the Henry Ford Health / Michigan State University Partnership website. Media Contacts Nicole Szymczak Health Story May 31, 2022 Capturing carbon with crops, trees and bioenergy Story May 31, 2022 Remembering Vincent Chin Story May 31, 2022 The week in photos: May 23–30, 2022 Stay connected Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update to receive timely news, groundbreaking research, inspiring videos, Spartan profiles and more. Email address Sign Up Subscribe to the MSUToday Weekly Update Thank you for subscribing! MSUToday Weekly Enjoy a curated collection of stories, photos, videos and featured content from across campus, delivered each Wednesday afternoon. MSUDaily Update Start your day with the latest Spartans Will! Featuring quick news bites, timely information, campus views, words of wisdom, essential info and a little inspiration, this email is delivered on weekday mornings. Please help us deliver content you’re most interested in. Check the topics you would like to read about. You are now signed up to receive the MSUToday Update. Coming to your inbox soon — a quick and easy way to keep up to date on the latest news about Spartans and the work they’re doing on campus and around the world. Go Green! Lisa Mulcrone, MSUToday editor Arts Business Campus Environment Health Life Science and Technology Sports Submit Connect With Us Facebook Twitter Instagram LinkedIn Youtube Resources A to Z index Find people Maps Email Student information system D2L Tech support MSU misconduct hotline Social media directory Events calendar For media Health and Safety MSU Police Olin Health Center Counseling and Psychiatric Services Health4U MSU Health Care Inc. Civil Rights and Title IX Our Commitment The Center for Survivors Annual Safety Report University Policy on Relationship Violence and Sexual Misconduct Notice of Nondiscrimination, Anti-Harassment and Non-Retaliation Health Care Notice of Nondiscrimination Support Services Disability resources Supportive services Learning resources Working at MSU Human Resources EBS login Job postings Employee Assistance Program Reports CARES Act Funding Student achievement and outcomes Contact us (517) 355-1855 Address Michigan State University 426 Auditorium Road East Lansing, MI 48824 Issues & Statements Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Youtube If you're having accessibility issues, please let us know. Contact Information | Site Map | Privacy Statement | Site Accessibility Call MSU: (517) 355-1855 | Visit: msu.edu | MSU is an affirmative-action, equal-opportunity employer. | Notice of Nondiscrimination SPARTANS WILL. | © Michigan State University