Skip to content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation MTA Home Search Search form Enter your keywords You are here: GT Home Material Transfer Agreements Material Transfer Agreements A material transfer agreement (MTA) is a contract between the Georgia Tech Research Corporation and another party that governs the transfer of tangible research materials. These materials include, but are not limited to, chemicals and biological materials such as cell lines, vectors, and plasmids. An MTA defines the rights of the provider and the recipient with respect to the use of the exchanged material and any derivatives. It also details how to manage any intellectual property. In most cases, an MTA is a straightforward agreement that can be established quickly. Questions? Contact Us Before you request an MTA, read and answer these questions to determine whether an MTA is necessary: Does the material contain Georgia Tech intellectual property that should be protected by Georgia Tech? Does the material contain intellectual property provided by a third party? Is the intellectual property related to the material subject to the terms of a sponsored research agreement with industry? Did you receive the material from a third party that restricts its further transfer? If you are receiving a material, does the sender want Georgia Tech to sign an MTA? If you answered NO to all of these questions, contact Environmental Health & Safety for assistance with shipping your material appropriately. Please note: If the material is leaving the country, regardless of whether an MTA is required, you must contact Export Control for review. If you answered YES to any of the above questions, please click below to initiate an MTA. Outgoing MTA Use for materials to be sent out of Georgia Tech. Submit an Outgoing MTA Incoming MTA Use for materials coming to Georgia Tech. Submit an Incoming MTA Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices & Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GTvisitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel & Conference Center Barnes & Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 Phone: 404-894-2000 Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue, Atlanta, GA 30332 404.894.2000 Directory Employment Emergency Information Enable Accessibility Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © Georgia Institute of Technology Login