Skip to navigation Skip to content MU Logo University of Missouri Mizzou A-Z Directory MU News Events Map MU Alert Online Emergency Information Center Main navigation Home Overview Report a Threat Frequently Asked Questions Preparedness Students Faculty Staff Parents, Visitors and the Public What To Do Emergency Procedures Disaster Relief Program Surviving an Active Shooter Weather Closures Building Emergency Action Plans MU Resources MU Police Department Environmental Health and Safety Student Health Center Student Counseling Center MU Building Coordinators MU Emergency Plan Team search menu Search infoLoading ... Loading... info This is the official University of Missouri emergency alert website. If you have received a text and/or email alert message recently and are seeking additional information, we are currently obtaining and confirming information from first responders. Every alert tool used by the university provides you information and will often provide recommended actions for you to take. Please, follow the recommendation you have received and reserve any calls to the University of Missouri Police Department for reporting injuries or an additional emergency. You will receive updates via MU Alert as new information becomes available. Students, during an emergencies, please call or text your loved ones and let them know you are safe once you reach a secure location. This website, MU Alert communications, the MU News Bureau, and Mizzou’s primary social media channels (links available on this page) are the only official sources of information or verification for the public and the news media. Recent updates can be found in the archive → Coronavirus Information The University of Missouri continues to monitor the coronavirus (COVID-19) situation. MU COVID-19 Information Portal Missouri DHSS Guidance CDC Guidance Sign up for Alerts Follow @Mizzou Mizzou Facebook Update your Contact Information Emergency Contact Information Report a Threat Non-Emergency phone 573-882-7201 Emergency phone 911 @MUAlert City Resources City of Columbia Disaster Preparedness State Resources Missouri Homeland Security State Emergency Management Agency Federal Resources American Red Cross Homeland Security US State Department Travel Warnings MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy