Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Center on Law and the Economy Current Students Faculty & Staff Owen Flanagan Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Murphy Home Programs Undergraduate Program in Political Economy Center for Ethics and Public Affairs Center for Public Policy Research People Murphy Institute Faculty Murphy Institute Staff Events News Books Newsletter About Mission Statement Videos Contact Apply Give to Tulane Request Info Visit Information For... THE MURPHY INSTITUTE The Center for Ethics and Public Affairs Established in 2001, The Center for Ethics and Public Affairs coordinates and supports research and discussion of ethics and public affairs. It draws from a number of fields overlapping fields, including moral and political philosophy, normative and applied ethics, moral psychology, political theory, and legal theory. To provide part of the advanced research infrastructure that attracts and rewards outstanding faculty and graduate students, the Center for Ethics funds both a Visiting Faculty Fellowship program and a Graduate Fellowship program. The Center for Ethics is one of the most active in the country, sponsoring 14 guest speakers and several conferences a year. Sign Up for Public Event Notices Learn More People Faculty Fellowships Graduate Fellowships Events Faculty Fellows To date, more than 40 leading academics from Argentina, Australia, Canada, Germany, Singapore, the US, and the UK have spent a year in residence at the Center for Ethics as Faculty Fellows. Learn More Graduate Fellows Beginning in 2002, the Center for Ethics and Public Affairs has provided Graduate Fellowships to more than 40 Tulane Ph.D. students. Learn More Equal Employment Opportunity Statement Tulane University is an Equal Employment Opportunity/ Affirmative Action (EEO/AA) employer committed to maintaining a non-discriminatory, diverse work and learning environment. Tulane does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, sex, religion, national origin, age, disability, genetic information, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, pregnancy, marital status, military status, veteran status (or any other classification protected by applicable law) in any of its programs, activities, or employment. Upcoming Events Sorry, there are no upcoming events scheduled at this time. Click below to see past events, and check back soon! View All Events The Murphy Institute Established in memory of Charles H. Murphy, Sr. (1870-1954), and inspired by the vision of Charles H. Murphy, Jr. (1920-2002), the Murphy Institute exists to help Tulane faculty and students understand economic, moral, and political problems we all face and think about. More important, it exists to help us understand how these problems have come to be so closely interconnected. Link to Tulane Home Page The Murphy Institute 108 Tilton Hall Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 Phone: 504-865-5317 Fax: 504-862-8755 Maps & Directions Photography by Zack Smith Photography Programs Undergraduate Program in Political Economy The Center for Ethics and Public Affairs The Center for Public Policy Research Get Email Updates News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University