Skip to main content Tulane Home Apply Give to Tulane Request Info Visit Information For... Search Information for... Center on Law and the Economy Current Students Faculty & Staff Owen Flanagan Parents & Families Visitors Close Search Tulane Search form Search Search Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Murphy Home Programs Undergraduate Program in Political Economy Center for Ethics and Public Affairs Center for Public Policy Research People Murphy Institute Faculty Murphy Institute Staff Events News Books Newsletter About Mission Statement Videos Contact Apply Give to Tulane Request Info Visit Information For... THE MURPHY INSTITUTE The Murphy Institute Established in memory of Charles H. Murphy, Sr. (1870-1954), and inspired by the vision of Charles H. Murphy, Jr. (1920-2002), The Murphy Institute exists to help Tulane faculty and students understand economic, moral, and political problems we all face and think about. More important, it exists to help us understand how these problems have come to be so closely interconnected. Join our Mailing List for News and Public Event Announcements Select a CategoryQuick Links Programs Events News Programs Undergraduate Program in Political Economy The Center for Ethics and Public Affairs The Center for Public Policy Research Upcoming Events Academic PPE 2022 Journal Conference Oct 28 Academic New Date: CEPA Seminar, C. Thi Nguyen May 06 Lecture Law and Economy Workshop: Maryam Jamshidi Apr 26 Academic CEPA Seminar Jessica Flanigan Apr 15 View The Murphy Institute Calendar Tulane News Gary Hoover Speaks on Inequality and the Social Contract at Adam Smith Week Gary Hoover Speaks at Nobel Peace Prize Summit Political Economy major founds Tulane Journal of Policy and Political Economy The Murphy Institute Pays Tribute to Ruth Carter View The Murphy Institute News The Murphy Institute Established in memory of Charles H. Murphy, Sr. (1870-1954), and inspired by the vision of Charles H. Murphy, Jr. (1920-2002), the Murphy Institute exists to help Tulane faculty and students understand economic, moral, and political problems we all face and think about. More important, it exists to help us understand how these problems have come to be so closely interconnected. Link to Tulane Home Page The Murphy Institute 108 Tilton Hall Tulane University New Orleans, LA 70118 Phone: 504-865-5317 Fax: 504-862-8755 Maps & Directions Photography by Zack Smith Photography Programs Undergraduate Program in Political Economy The Center for Ethics and Public Affairs The Center for Public Policy Research Get Email Updates News Give to Tulane Medical Center Neighborhood Relations Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University