[Skip to Content] Institutional Login LOG IN Accessibility Browse OR Search: menu Advanced Search Browse MyMUSE Account Log In / Sign Up Change My Account User Settings Access via Institution MyMUSE Library Search History View History Purchase History MyMUSE Alerts Contact Support Capitalism: A Journal of History and Economics Our Lady of Mont Pelerin: The “Navarra School” of Catholic Neoliberalism Bethany Moreton Capitalism: A Journal of History and Economics University of Pennsylvania Press Volume 2, Number 1, Winter 2021 pp. 88-153 10.1353/cap.2021.0003 Article View Citation Related Content Additional Information Abstract Abstract: Religious doctrine and practice have been among the principal conduits for neoliberal ideas, policies, and subjectivities, and attention to them reveals the self-conscious dependence of free markets on intimate forms of unfreedom. Intellectual historians have recovered the shifting and overlapping neoliberal schools of Geneva and Freiburg, Virginia and Chicago, Vienna and Cologne. This article makes a case for adding a similarly heterogenous but nonetheless identifiable “Navarra School” to the roster of neoliberal networks. The neologism derives from the flagship university in Spain where members of the elite Catholic lay movement Opus Dei disseminated economic policy, business training, and religious practice. collapse You are not currently authenticated. If you would like to authenticate using a different subscribed institution or have your own login and password to Project MUSE Authenticate Recommend Additional Information ISSN 2576-6406 Print ISSN 2576-6392 Pages pp. 88-153 Launched on MUSE 2021-02-06 Open Access No Project MUSE Mission Project MUSE promotes the creation and dissemination of essential humanities and social science resources through collaboration with libraries, publishers, and scholars worldwide. Forged from a partnership between a university press and a library, Project MUSE is a trusted part of the academic and scholarly community it serves. About MUSE Story Publishers Discovery Partners Advisory Board Journal Subscribers Book Customers Conferences What's on Muse Open Access Journals Books MUSE in Focus T.S. Eliot Prose Resources News & Announcements Email Sign-Up Promotional Materials Get Alerts Presentations Information For Publishers Librarians Individuals Instructors Contact Contact Us Help Policy & Terms Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use 2715 North Charles Street Baltimore, Maryland, USA 21218 +1 (410) 516-6989 muse@jh.edu ©2022 Project MUSE. Produced by Johns Hopkins University Press in collaboration with The Sheridan Libraries. Now and Always, The Trusted Content Your Research Requires Now and Always, The Trusted Content Your Research Requires Built on the Johns Hopkins University Campus Built on the Johns Hopkins University Campus ©2022 Project MUSE. Produced by Johns Hopkins University Press in collaboration with The Sheridan Libraries. Back To Top This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Without cookies your experience may not be seamless.