[Skip to Content] Institutional Login LOG IN Accessibility Browse OR Search: menu Advanced Search Browse MyMUSE Account Log In / Sign Up Change My Account User Settings Access via Institution MyMUSE Library Search History View History Purchase History MyMUSE Alerts Contact Support Journal of Global South Studies Tunisia: An Arab Anomaly by Safwan M. Masri, and: A History of Modern Tunisia 2nd ed by Kenneth Perkins (review) Jacek Lubecki Journal of Global South Studies University Press of Florida Volume 36, Number 1, Spring 2019 pp. 241-244 10.1353/gss.2019.0024 Review View Citation Related Content Additional Information In lieu of an abstract, here is a brief excerpt of the content: Reviewed by: Tunisia: An Arab Anomaly by Safwan M. Masri, and: A History of Modern Tunisia 2nd ed by Kenneth Perkins Jacek Lubecki Masri, Safwan M. Tunisia: An Arab Anomaly. New York: Columbia University Press, 2017. Perkins, Kenneth. A History of Modern Tunisia 2nd ed. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2014. The variance in outcomes of 2011–2013 Arab Spring revolutions in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region has invited and generated a large body of scholarship intended to explain their dramatically different results. Specifically, the fact that Tunisia emerged as the only liberal democracy from the upheavals naturally led to a debate on the phenomenon of Tunisian exceptionalism. Safwan M. Masri's Tunisia: An Arab Anomaly is the most important recent work on the topic and represents a needed but also predictably one-sided perspective on the debate. The author presents Tunisia as unique and unlike all other Arab countries, which, according to him, lack the cultural and structural preconditions for democracy. In contrast, according to Masri, Tunisia has developed a political culture (a term that he does not use but clearly implies) rooted in [End Page 241] Tunisia's "Mediterranean" (not Arab) identity, a long tradition of liberal reformism, and a flourishing civil society. Significantly, for him Tunisian post-independence patterns of development emphasized rationalist education, gender equality, and secularism. Besides these factors, Masri also lists and acknowledges structural factors that helped Tunisia's eventual democratization: a fairly small and homogenous population and favorable geopolitical conditions that obviated a need for a strong military and its nefarious influence on politics. However, Masri clearly emphasizes that cultural and developmental factors, not broad structural conditions, are central for explaining Tunisia's democratic success. It is important to acknowledge, as the author himself admits, that he is not an expert in political science. Indeed, Masri's background is in systems engineering and education/educational administration and his current position is executive vice president for global centers and global development at Columbia University, and a senior research scholar at Columbia's School of International and Public Affairs. He admits in his preface that "this is my narrative of Tunisia. … It is also a commentary on the Arab world through the lens of Tunisia" (p. xx). In other words, the reader should not expect the book to be a systematic, quantitative, or theoretically informed perspective on Tunisia and the rest of the Arab world. There is no systematic comparison here, just a selective and subjective narrative of Tunisian history with occasional asides to the rest of the Arab world intended to prove that Tunisia is unique and different from other Arab countries and that in many ways it has always been so. Given the author's and the book's non-expert nature, the volume is gracefully free of jargon and the narrative flows freely and is well structured. The book shines in its easy storytelling fluency and therefore in its appeal to nonspecialists. For teachers of undergraduate students who want to make Tunisia a vantage point from which to understand the rest of the MENA region, the volume can easily become a textbook in their courses. Masri provides a detailed story of the Tunisian Jasmine Revolution and democratic transition in Part I of the book, which is entitled Tunisian Spring. Crucially, he focuses (in chapters four and five) on Tunisia's transition to democracy, culminating in the 2014 elections that marked the first fully democratic transfer of power in Tunisian history—an event perhaps unprecedented in the entire Arab world. The narrative is rich in detail, witty, skeptical, and vivid. Besides written sources, the author based this part of the book on a series of personal interviews with important players in the Tunisian revolution and transition, who reveal key historical [End Page 242] moments of the story. This is easily the best part of the book; it can be read (or used in a college course) independently of other parts of the book. Still, Masri predictably pursues a line of narrative intended to prove the existence of a uniquely democratic, civic, secular, and tolerant features of Tunisian political, cultural, and social makeup that allowed the transition to proceed the way... collapse You are not currently authenticated. If you would like to authenticate using a different subscribed institution or have your own login and password to Project MUSE Authenticate Recommend Additional Information ISSN 2476-1419 Print ISSN 2476-1397 Pages pp. 241-244 Launched on MUSE 2019-05-04 Open Access No Project MUSE Mission Project MUSE promotes the creation and dissemination of essential humanities and social science resources through collaboration with libraries, publishers, and scholars worldwide. Forged from a partnership between a university press and a library, Project MUSE is a trusted part of the academic and scholarly community it serves. About MUSE Story Publishers Discovery Partners Advisory Board Journal Subscribers Book Customers Conferences What's on Muse Open Access Journals Books MUSE in Focus T.S. Eliot Prose Resources News & Announcements Email Sign-Up Promotional Materials Get Alerts Presentations Information For Publishers Librarians Individuals Instructors Contact Contact Us Help Policy & Terms Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use 2715 North Charles Street Baltimore, Maryland, USA 21218 +1 (410) 516-6989 muse@jh.edu ©2022 Project MUSE. Produced by Johns Hopkins University Press in collaboration with The Sheridan Libraries. Now and Always, The Trusted Content Your Research Requires Now and Always, The Trusted Content Your Research Requires Built on the Johns Hopkins University Campus Built on the Johns Hopkins University Campus ©2022 Project MUSE. Produced by Johns Hopkins University Press in collaboration with The Sheridan Libraries. Back To Top This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Without cookies your experience may not be seamless.