Skip to main content Toggle navigation Open Wed-Sun 11-5pm. Day reservations required. SEARCH SEARCH Visit Exhibitions Programs Collections Students & Faculty About Support Breadcrumb Return to Current Exhibitions A Cool Million: Petra Cortright Temporary Exhibition A Cool Million: Petra Cortright April 22, 2022–May 30, 2022 Petra Cortright (American, born in 1986), Hellscape Nº17, 2022. Digital painting on banner. Museum Entrance As part of A Cool Million, the Cantor has collaborated with artist Petra Cortright to create a banner for the museum’s exterior, which features a new digital painting of an invented landscape evoking the rugged scenery and wildfires of California. A Cool Million is a public arts initiative for climate awareness led by artists and institutions to expand environmental justice programming and support the conservation of one million acres of land central to the California hydrological system. Visit acoolmillion.org for more information Other participating institutions: The Broad Berkeley Art Museum and Pacific Film Archive The Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco Getty Museum Hammer Museum ICA San Francisco LACMA Museum of the African Diaspora MOCA REDCAT (Roy and Edna Disney/CalArts Theater) San José Museum of Art SFMOMA Wattis Institute for Contemporary Arts This initiative is organized by Haley Melin and Micki Meng and is a collaboration between Art into Acres, Art+Climate Action, and California museums. The Cantor Arts Center presentation is organized by Maggie Dethloff, assistant curator of photography and new media. Open in Person and Online The Cantor is open to the public at 100% indoor capacity. Free, all-day reservations are required for all visitors, including members. Get yours here. You can also explore Stanford art museums from the comfort of your home in Museums From Home. Visit Directions The Cantor Arts Center is located at the intersection of Museum Way and Lomita Drive in the heart of the arts district on the Stanford campus. The Cantor faces the Bing Concert Hall across Palm Drive, northwest of The Oval and the Main Quad. 328 Lomita Drive at Museum Way Stanford, CA 94305-5060 How to Get Here Parking Parking is limited. Stanford has a new contactless process to pay for parking, using the ParkMobile app, website, or phone. Prior to your visit, we recommend you visit the Stanford Transportation website to learn more about the updated visitor parking process. Parking Rates and Map Our digital doors are always open Explore online resources Quick Links Contact Us Host an Event Newsletter Signup Press Staff Login (Authentication Req'd) Cantor Arts Center 328 Lomita Drive at Museum Way Stanford, CA 94305-5060 Phone: 650-723-4177 Campus Partners Stanford Arts The Anderson Collection Department of Art and Art History Stanford Live Institute for Diversity in the Arts Join or Renew ©2018 Iris & B. Gerald Cantor Center for Visual Arts at Stanford University. All rights reserved Stanford University Logo Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Copyright Complaints Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.