[Skip to Content] Institutional Login LOG IN Accessibility Browse OR Search: menu Advanced Search Browse MyMUSE Account Log In / Sign Up Change My Account User Settings Access via Institution MyMUSE Library Search History View History Purchase History MyMUSE Alerts Contact Support Latin American Theatre Review Memory in Motion: UrbanTheater Company's Back in the Day and the Chicago Latinx Dance Crews of the 1980s Israel Reyes Latin American Theatre Review Center of Latin American Studies, University of Kansas Volume 55, Number 1, Fall 2021 pp. 103-132 10.1353/ltr.2021.0019 Article View Citation Related Content Additional Information Abstract Abstract: During the 1980s, a number of Latinx and Black dance groups emerged from high schools on the Near Northwest Side of Chicago. Contemporaneous with the Chicago House Music phenomenon that began in Southside clubs like the Warehouse, LGBTQ dance groups such as The Culitos, The All Stars, and Imported Taste choreographed routines and competed in dance battles to the driving beat of house, disco, R&B, and European techno. This article examines the Urban Theater Company's 2019 performance of Back in the Day: An 80s House Music Danceicle. The choreography in this site-specific, immersive play conveys a kinesthetic empathy that engages the audience members in a reflective nostalgia of an era and a community that has up until now been absent from the Latinx artistic and performance archive. By contrasting stillness with movement and creating an immersive theatrical experience, the dance musical production positions the nostalgic audience in a critical space where memory is performed as an embodied phenomenology, wherein an unwritten history of love and loss is articulated through rhythm and dance. collapse You are not currently authenticated. If you would like to authenticate using a different subscribed institution or have your own login and password to Project MUSE Authenticate Recommend Additional Information ISSN 2161-0576 Print ISSN 0023-8813 Pages pp. 103-132 Launched on MUSE 2021-11-03 Open Access No Project MUSE Mission Project MUSE promotes the creation and dissemination of essential humanities and social science resources through collaboration with libraries, publishers, and scholars worldwide. Forged from a partnership between a university press and a library, Project MUSE is a trusted part of the academic and scholarly community it serves. About MUSE Story Publishers Discovery Partners Advisory Board Journal Subscribers Book Customers Conferences What's on Muse Open Access Journals Books MUSE in Focus T.S. Eliot Prose Resources News & Announcements Email Sign-Up Promotional Materials Get Alerts Presentations Information For Publishers Librarians Individuals Instructors Contact Contact Us Help Policy & Terms Accessibility Privacy Policy Terms of Use 2715 North Charles Street Baltimore, Maryland, USA 21218 +1 (410) 516-6989 muse@jh.edu ©2022 Project MUSE. Produced by Johns Hopkins University Press in collaboration with The Sheridan Libraries. Now and Always, The Trusted Content Your Research Requires Now and Always, The Trusted Content Your Research Requires Built on the Johns Hopkins University Campus Built on the Johns Hopkins University Campus ©2022 Project MUSE. Produced by Johns Hopkins University Press in collaboration with The Sheridan Libraries. Back To Top This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our website. Without cookies your experience may not be seamless.