Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas Museum Studies Program Museum Studies myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Us Academics Select to follow link Degrees Select to follow link M.A. Select to follow link Final Product Examples Dual M.A. with African & African-American Studies Graduate Certificate Non-Degree-Seeking Admission Select to follow link How to Apply Request a Campus Visit Program Costs & Financial Aid People Select to follow link Faculty Students Staff Affiliate Faculty Executive Committee Museum Students Organization Alumni Resources Select to follow link University Resources Select Area Museums Professional Resources Contact Us Info for Prospective Students Current Students Alumni Degree Programs myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo University of Kansas Museum Studies Program Museum Studies Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search KU Museum Studies Program Looking to build the interdisciplinary skills you need to lead in the museum field? Our flexible degree centers your career interests. You'll work with world-class professionals and collections on campus and elsewhere in class and through internships. And, our small program ensures you'll get plenty of time with our student-focused faculty and staff. Why MUSE? Chart Your Path Our flexible, interdisciplinary degree gives you the foundations of the field, plus hands-on skills and experience in your specific area of museum work. And, our unique joint degree with African & African-American Studies allows you to earn two master's in three years. Learn about our degrees Visit Campus We can't wait to meet you! Our team will put together a personalized visit, including tours of our on-campus and local museums. If an in-person visit isn't in the cards, we can set up Zoom meetings instead. Request a campus visit Apply Today Ready to take the leap? Check out our required application materials and tips for submitting a top-notch application, then create your account! Start your application Get in Touch Have questions about our program, KU in general or the Lawrence community? We're here to help! Email, call or find us on social media. Contact us Lippincott Hall, room 6 1410 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 Bus Route: 43 museumstudies@ku.edu 785-864-4543 facebook twitter College Office of Graduate Affairs Office of Graduate Studies KU Libraries Diversity, Equity, Inclusion & Belonging Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.