Skip to main content Toggle navigation Open Wed-Sun 11-5pm. Day reservations required. SEARCH SEARCH Visit Exhibitions Programs Collections Students & Faculty About Support Breadcrumb Return to Current Exhibitions LJ Roberts: Carry You With Me Temporary Exhibition LJ Roberts: Carry You With Me April 27, 2022–November 27, 2022 LJ Roberts (American, born in 1980), Hannah (HH) Hiaasen and Lukaza Branfman-Verissimo, 2020-2021. Embroidery on cotton. © LJ Roberts. Courtesy the artist and Hales, London and New York Lynn Krywick Gibbons Gallery This exhibition is the result of a long-term, ongoing project by LJ Roberts, consisting of 26 six-by-four-inch embroidered portraits of the artist’s friends, collaborators, and lovers within New York’s queer and trans communities. Stitched entirely by hand, these embroideries illustrate how politics, culture, and identity manifest in both visible and subtle ways in daily life. LJ Roberts: Carry You With Me is organized by Pioneer Works, and curated by Gabriel Florenz. It is made possible through generous support from Pamela and David Hornik. It is also supported in part by the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs in partnership with the City Council, and the New York State Council on the Arts with the support of the New York Legislature. The Cantor Arts Center presentation is organized by Elizabeth Kathleen Mitchell, PhD, Interim Co-Director; Burton and Deedee McMurtry Curator; Curatorial Fellowship Program Director. We gratefully acknowledge support from Pamela and David Hornik. Open in Person and Online The Cantor is open to the public at 100% indoor capacity. Free, all-day reservations are required for all visitors, including members. Get yours here. You can also explore Stanford art museums from the comfort of your home in Museums From Home. Visit Directions The Cantor Arts Center is located at the intersection of Museum Way and Lomita Drive in the heart of the arts district on the Stanford campus. The Cantor faces the Bing Concert Hall across Palm Drive, northwest of The Oval and the Main Quad. 328 Lomita Drive at Museum Way Stanford, CA 94305-5060 How to Get Here Parking Parking is limited. Stanford has a new contactless process to pay for parking, using the ParkMobile app, website, or phone. Prior to your visit, we recommend you visit the Stanford Transportation website to learn more about the updated visitor parking process. Parking Rates and Map Our digital doors are always open Explore online resources Quick Links Contact Us Host an Event Newsletter Signup Press Staff Login (Authentication Req'd) Cantor Arts Center 328 Lomita Drive at Museum Way Stanford, CA 94305-5060 Phone: 650-723-4177 Campus Partners Stanford Arts The Anderson Collection Department of Art and Art History Stanford Live Institute for Diversity in the Arts Join or Renew ©2018 Iris & B. Gerald Cantor Center for Visual Arts at Stanford University. All rights reserved Stanford University Logo Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Terms of Use Copyright Complaints Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.