Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Music Department of Music Contact Us Facebook Music@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Back to Top Nav Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP Back to Top Nav News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Honors Honors Projects Funding Share Honors Projects 2021 Andrew Kaler. "A Rabbit on Steroids: Cross-Genre Explorations into Songwriting, Engineering, and Production." 2020 Caitlin McGrail. "An Interpretation of Schumann's Frauenliebe und Leben." Gabriel Zuckerberg. "Mikrá Yiánnena: Romaniote Chanting for Shabbat Evening in Greece and New York City." 2019 Adam Rinehouse. "Two Meditations: Elegy for Wind Ensemble." Katherine Wee. "A Call for Dialogue about Disability in Music." 2016 James Ragan. "Eternal Rest: In Support of a Choral Program." 2015 Michaël Blum. "What Is the Process by which Jazz Vocabulary Is Acquired?" 2014 Ryan McWilliams. "Sound Mimesis in Compositional Practice: A Narrative Tool." 2012 Nic Chuaqui. "Icarus." 2011 Julia Floberg. "Living the Elgar: Studying and Performing Edward Elgar's Concerto for Violoncello and Orchestra in E minor, op.85." James Lee. "Hermaphroditus and Salmacis: A Chamber Opera in Three Scenes." 2008 Benjamin Davis. "From Living Toys to Tevot: An Analysis of the Orchestral Music of Thomas Adès." Uma Ramaswamy. "The 72 Melakarta Rāgas and Janaka-Janya Rāga Classification: A Study of the Place and Necessity of a Modern Classification System in the Tradition of Carnatic Music." 2007 Katharine Blumenthal. "Caste-Bound Music." Kim Nguyen Tran. "The Emergence of Leo Brouwer's Compositional Periods: The Guitar, Experimental Leanings, and New Simplicity." 2006 Kimberly Coppola. "Herds of Black Pianos: Samuel Barber as Songwriter." Peter Morgenstern. "Weber and Baermann: Composer Meets Clarinetist." Joe Zenruffinen. "'Till Earth Outwears': The Songs of Gerald Finzi." 2005 Rebecca Elaine Bruccoleri. "Visions of Sound: The Study of the Orchestra as a Canvas in Selected Works and Valse Romantique." Marisa Clementi. "The Standard: Breaking Barriers in the Blues." Eric Lindley. "Theoretical Extensions and Compositional Applications of James Tenney's Theories of Temporal Gestalt Perception in Music." C. Kadis Moscato. "'Transformation,' for Orchestra and Oud: Turkish/Western Modal Music Fusion." Brent Reidy. "Cage and Schoenberg Reexamined: Sonatas and Interludes for Prepared Piano (1946-1948) as a Reaction to Schoenberg." Sarah Ries. "Evita: The Story Behind the Opera." Kristina Rodriguez. "Musical Movements: The Unification of Benjamin Britten's Simple Symphony with Modern Dance." Kabir Seghal. "Jazzocracy: Jazz as a Weapon of Democracy." 2004 Oliver Caplan. "Symphony No. 1: For Chamber Orchestra." Daniel David Colvard. "Three Works by John Adams." James Wrubel. "Reinventing Standards: Modern Interpretation on Historical Style." 2003 Andrew Haringer. "The Fantasia: A Window on the Composer's Imagination." 2002 John Frederick Brandsema. "Opera: Gesamtkunstwerk, or One Big Bloody Mess?" Jamie Fan. "West Meets East: Asian Influences in Western Piano Music: Analysis of My Song (II, IV) and Ba Ban." Jeff Hafner. "Foundations." Brian Jacobs. "Two Faces." Kristina Romberg. "The Divine One--Sarah Vaughan." 2001 Galen Brown. "The Marriage of Heaven and Hell: An Oratorio." Sarah Craft. "La serva padrona: A Short Comic Opera." Andrew Pease. "Positively New Ensemble Music: Suite for Steelpans and Brass." 2000 Ryan Ainsley. "Vocal Pedagogy: An Analysis of the Procedures Used in Modern American Studios in the Context of Physiology and the National Schools of Singing." Lauren Bellucci. "Learning through Performance: A Practicum in Music Education." Deirdre Brenner. "Dartmouth Symphony Orchestra Presents Anthony Princiotti, Conductor, & Deirdre Brenner, Piano." Carmen Silva Flores. "Filipino Themes and Resistance Elements in the Manila Sarswela, 1899-1919." James Lawrie. "Haydn's Use of the Double-Variation Form in his Keyboard Music." Amy Victoria Smith. "Romantic Individuality: The Relationship of Music and Text in Samuel Barber's Songs." 1999 Brendan Caldon. "Odysseus: An Orchestral Suite." Tamayo Kawai. "Suite for String Quartet: Musical Portraits of Psychiatric Children." Philip Levant. "Differences in Orchestration Technique Between Handel's Messiah and Mozart's Re-Orchestration." Sean Parr. "Die schöne Müllerin, a Song Cycle by Franz Schubert: Post-Performance Research Document of Song Examples which Are Emblematic of the Text and Music Relationship Evident in the Cycle." 1998 Joanna Gibson. "G.F. Handel's Acis and Galatea: Historical Perspective and Commentary on a Modern Performance." Matthew Heerde. "A Portrait of Dhrupad: A First-Hand Analysis of the Social, Spiritual, Personal and Aesthetic Values of the Performance Style." 1996 Matthew Carlson. "From Now On--: For String Quartet and Bodhran." 1995 Lara Belena. "Italian Concerto in F Major, BWV 971." José Luis Pérez. "Compositional Techniques in Missa Dona nobis pacem: A Supporting Document." 1992 Jonathan Douglas. "William Sterndale Bennett and the Politics of Musical Performance in Early Victorian London." Daniel Petit. "The Structural Implications of Orchestration in the Music of Gustav Mahler." 1991 Jonathan Douglas. "The Critical Reception of Early Nineteenth-Century English Composers." 1979 Sally Critchlow. "The Singer-Actor: A Study in Performance Based on Dominick Argento's Song Cycle From the Diary of Virginia Woolf." Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Music Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback