Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Music Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events Search Department of Music Graduate Students Breadcrumb Home People Sub Navigation In This Section Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni Graduate Students Music & Multimedia Composition Nicholas Bentz Nick Bentz (b. 1994, Charleston, SC) is a composer and violinist whose art is drawn to the remote fringes and recesses of human experience. In his work he seeks to render intimately personal spaces imbued with an individual sense of storytelling and narrative. Finding inspiration in historical materials, Nick's work often explores the destructive relationship between sound artifacts and time. His art centers around the blurring, juxtaposition, and amalgamation of stylistic idioms into singular sonic statements. Nick holds a BM in composition and violin and an MM in violin from the Peabody Institute, and an MM in composition from the University of Southern California. nickbentz.com Kamari Carter Personal Website Kamari Carter (b. 1992; lives and works in NYC) is a producer, performer, sound designer, and installation artist primarily working with sound and found objects. Carter's practice circumvents materiality and familiarity through a variety of recording and amplification techniques to investigate notions such as space, systems of identity, oppression, control, and surveillance. Driven by the probative nature of perception and the concept of conversation and social science, he seeks to expand narrative structures through sonic stillness. Carter’s work has been exhibited at such venues as Automata Arts, MoMA, Mana Contemporary, Flux Factory, Fridman Gallery, Lenfest Center for the Arts, and Issue Project Room, to name a few. Carter holds a BFA in Music Technology from California Institute of the Arts and an MFA in Sound Art from Columbia University. Inga Chinilina Personal Website Inga is a composer, intermedia artist, and a pianist. Originally from Moscow, USSR, Inga holds a BM in Composition and Performance from Berklee College of Music and an MFA in Theory and Composition from Brandeis University. Among her interests there are early music, non-tempered sonorities, and live electronics. Adeliia Faizullina Personal Website Adeliia Faizullina is a Tatar composer, vocalist, and multi-instrumentalist. She explores cutting-edge vocal colors and creates vibrant atmospheres praised as "vast and varied, encompassing memory and imagination" (The Washington Post). Her works have been performed by Jennifer Koh, the Tesla Quartet, Orpheus Radio Symphony, Seattle Symphony, Albany Symphony, Ashley Bathgate, and the Del Sol Quartet. Adeliia holds a BM in Voice from Kazan, Russia, a BM in Composition from Gnessins Russian Academy of Music, and a MM in Composition from the University of Texas at Austin. Lee Gilboa Personal Website Lee Gilboa is an Israeli composer, artist and audio engineer. She completed her BM at Berklee College of Music, and her MFA at Columbia University. In her work she uses speech, audio spatialization and vocal processing in order to address themes such as identity, gender, naming and objectification. Lee is co-curating CT::SWaM's ExChange series with Daniel Neumann and presented work in venues such as Qubit Gallery, The Cube at Virginia Tech, Fridman Gallery, Fourth World Festival, and Resonance FM Radio among others. Lee’s debut album was released by Contour Editions during the summer of 2019. Will Johnson Will Johnson is an audio artist from the Bronx, New York. His work centers on blackness -- the material and immaterial conditions of space that shape sound into movement and historical record. He holds a B.A. in Interdisciplinary Studies from NYU-Gallatin. He is the recipient of the Jerome Foundation Fellowship for Sound Art/Composition (2018) and the McKnight Foundation Fellowship for Musicians (2019). His commercial work includes licensed sound for Acura, Beats Electronics, HBO and collaborative contributions to 2016 grammy-winning best electronic album Skin. His live performances have been commissioned by Lincoln Center, the Kitchen and MASS MoCA. Bonnie Jones Personal Website Bonnie Jones is a Korean-American improvising musician, poet, and educator working primarily with electronic sound and text. Her work explores noise, sonic identity, listening, and sound as knowledge. She received an MFA from Bard College in 2012 and was the 2018 recipient of the Foundation for Contemporary Arts Grants to Artists Award. Jake Sokolov-Gonzalez Jake Sokolov-Gonzalez is a musician and educator from New York City whose practice is based equally in free improvisation and tedious technical labor. He’s currently working on very-close-miked, very quiet cello music; a distended piano score for a short film; and a rolling drum’n’bass visual record. He’s been teaching creative music in the NYC public schools since 2013. He produces pop and dance music under the name BABL. Amber Vistein Personal Website Amber Vistein (b.1984) is a composer and sound artist who delves deeply into the poetics of timbre, texture, and gesture. She has been praised for her conceptual “acuity” (Big, Red, and Shiny) and “blooming phrases” (New Music Box). Her work spans acoustic composition, opera, cinematic sound, and sound installation. Amber holds a B.A. in Music & Philosophy from New College of Florida and an MFA in Sonic Arts from Massachusetts College of Art. She was also a 2017-19 Composition Fellow with American Opera Project’s Composers and the Voice program. Her dissertation project, a multi-media chamber opera entitled Dark Exhalation was recently awarded grants from the Brown Arts Initiative and New Music USA. Musicology & Ethnomusicology Melody Chapin Melody is a doctoral candidate of Musicology & Ethnomusicology in the Brown Music Department. Her dissertation studies loud music listening practices in Washington DC's public spaces. She has also studied Brazilian opera and art music of the nineteenth and twentieth century. Her broader interests concern sound studies, music of the African diaspora, Western art music, and postcolonial and decolonization studies. Melody has a BM in Voice Performance (University of New Hampshire), an MA in Musicology, (Tufts University), and an MA in Ethnomusicology (Brown University). Ruby Erickson Ruby Erickson is a student in the Musicology and Ethnomusicology Ph.D. program at Brown University, and is a graduate of St. Olaf College with a B.A. in Music and French. Ruby's scholarly interests include music, migration, and diaspora; eco-musicology; and engaged musicology. Most recently, she has performed research in collaboration with the Somali Museum of Minnesota, focusing on the intersections of diasporic identity and gender in Somali dance. Katie Freeze Katie studies the diverse music cultures of the mountainous “roof of the world” of South and Central Asia. She plays the Western Tibetan ko-phongs and the Pamiri rubob and tanbur, and her doctoral project explores contemporary musical performance and representation among Ismaili Muslims living in post-Soviet, Tajik Badakhshan. Katie holds music degrees from the University of Washington and, before coming to Brown, worked as a pianist, composer and arranger. Marcus Grant Marcus Grant is a professional drummer, percussionist, musicologist, and educator from West Chester, Pennsylvania. He holds a BM in jazz performance from Temple University, an MM jazz performance and an MM in musicology from the University of Miami (FL). His research focuses on Black Lives Matter protest music and hip-hop, and the intersections of musical protest and digital culture. Other research interests include jazz studies and music in the Black church. Alexander Hardan I am currently a PhD student in Musicology & Ethnomusicology at Brown University. Broadly, I work on Russian musical pedagogy in Cuba during the Cold War. I focus on the transnational dissemination of “national sounds” produced by Soviet-Cuban cultural and pedagogical exchange and the subsequent effects of this exchange on ideas of post-revolutionary Cuban identity and nationhood. Outside of the Cold War, I am also interested in performance and queer studies, namely the intersections of gendered performative gestures and displays of instrumental virtuosity. Originally from Miami, Fl and of Lebanese descent, I hold a Bachelor of Music and a Master of Music in Violin Performance, as well as a Master of Music in Musicology from the Peabody Conservatory of the Johns Hopkins University. Devanney Haruta Devanney Haruta is a PhD candidate in Musicology & Ethnomusicology. Her research focuses on musical instruments, interfaces, and technologies, particularly as material objects embedded with cultural and personal meaning and as sites of interaction and experimentation. She earned an M.A. in Ethnomusicology from Wesleyan University, where she worked with the World Instrument Collection, and an A.B. in Music and Math from Brown University. Annie Kim Annie is a Ph.D. candidate in Musicology & Ethnomusicology at Brown University. Her research sits at the cross-disciplinary intersections of voice, sound, and performance studies, with a particular attention to issues of race, gender, materiality, and technological mediation. Annie holds an M.A. in Music from Tufts University, where she completed a thesis titled, “Voice, Embodiment, Becoming: Camilla Williams’s Performances and Negotiations of Black Female Subjectivity from Butterfly to Bess.” Ravi Krishnaswami Personal Website Ravi Krishnaswami is a PHD student at Brown University studying how technology, business, and culture intersect in the work of creating music for advertising. He is an award-winning composer and sound-designer for advertising, television, and games, a business owner, and guitarist in NYC’s tribute to The Smiths. His composition work has appeared in the Super Bowl, on networks including ESPN and HBO, and in AAA video game soundtracks such as Fallout and Dishonored. He studies sitar with Srinivas Reddy, and recently premiered works for acoustic instruments and live processing, under the supervision of Lu Wang and Butch Rovan. Jay Loomis flickr I play and construct a variety of wind instruments that I make out of wood, ceramics, and 3D printed materials. I also compose and record my own works, often in parks and outdoor areas where I can combine the sound of flutes with the sonic environment that surrounds me, from cityscapes to mountain streams. Some research areas of interest include organology, flamenco, coloniality, critical race theory, indigeneity, and musics of the Americas. Shirley Mak Shirley Mak received her B.A. in Music from Queens College, CUNY, and her M.A. in Musicology from the University of Amsterdam. She is interested in issues of race, identity, and cosmopolitanism in the field of Western classical music, particularly in the experiences of Asian and Asian-American musicians. She would like to learn more about the history and practice of Western classical music in China and other “non-Western” countries. Anna Wright Before joining the PhD in Musicology and Ethnomusicology program at Brown, Anna studied at the University of British Columbia, where she earned a Master of Music in saxophone performance and a Master of Arts in ethnomusicology. Originally from Scotland, Anna focusses on Scottish traditional music and is particularly interested in ways music is utilized to encourage mass agency under political, nationalistic, or dissent-driven circumstances. Gabriel Zuckerberg Gabriel is a strings- and keys-musician from New York, and he studied with Theodore Levin at Dartmouth College. Since 2018, Gabriel has been pursuing a preservation and music analysis project with the Romaniote communities in Greece and Manhattan and, since 2020, a preservation-analysis collaboration with Aniruddh Patel. A klezmer musician and aspiring Yiddishist, Gabriel is interested in musics of the Jewish diaspora. He’s now starting ethnographic work with LGBTQ+ klezmer and Yiddish musicians. At Brown, Gabriel is interested in exploring how aesthetics are tied to social identity, intersections of music and language, and musical hallucinations. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Students Open details for Graduate Students Bookmark this Page