Skip to content Music Rising ~ The Musical Cultures of the Gulf South Share Make A Donation Home Discover Learn Watch Listen Resources About Welcome. Photo Credit: Marc Pagani Welcome. Photo Credit: Marc Pagani Welcome. Photo Credit: Marc Pagani Welcome. Photo Credit: Marc Pagani Welcome. Photo Credit: Marc Pagani Welcome Photo Credit: Ralston Crawford Welcome. Photo Credit: Ralston Crawford Welcome. Photo Credit: Zack Smith Welcome. Photo Credit: Zack Smith Welcome. Photo Credit: Ralston Crawford Welcome. Photo Credit: Ralston Crawford Welcome. Photo Credit: Zack Smith Welcome. Photo Credit: Zack Smith Learn Tulane Courses on Musical Cultures Jump into innovative courses vetted by Tulane professors that put the region’s genres in context (jazz, blues, hiphop, zydeco) through videos, readings, bios, photos, and more. K-12 Educator Courses Designed to help teachers investigate New Orleans’ rich cultural traditions with their students. Watch Archival Footage 300+ videos, including original interviews and performances. Listen Hogan Jazz Archive 500+ digitized oral histories from the premiere archive of jazz and New Orleans music. Resources Confetti Park, HipHop Archive, Preservation Hall, The Porch Sessions, U.S. Mint Various goodies. Summer Workshop 2019 New Orleans: Music Culture and Civil Rights Click here for more information. Learn how to use this site. Discover the connections through people, places, instruments, themes and songs. Create your own path of inquiry into the culture of the Gulf South through geography or genre, songs or themes, instruments or influences. Themes People Places Instruments Adolphe Alexander, Jr. Adolphe “Tats” Alexander, Jr. was a New Orleans jazz clarinetist… Litdell “Queen B” Banister Littdell “Queen B” Banister, tribal queen of the Creole Wild… Harry Connick Jr Joseph Harry Fowler Connick, Jr (born September 11, 1967) is… Please check back soon as we are currently updating our offerings of oral histories from the Hogan Jazz Archive. # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Dolly Adams Don Albert Tom Albert Alvin Alcorn Adolphe Alexander, Jr. Richard “Dick” Allen Frank Amacker Andy Anderson Phil Anselmo Alphonse “Bois Sec” Ardoin Amede Ardoin Louis Armstrong “Satchmo” Lil Hardin Armstrong Rudolph Beaulieu & R.L. Burnside Music Rising at Tulane New Orleans Center for the Gulf South, Tulane University Home Discover Learn Watch Listen Resources About © 2022 Music Rising ~ The Musical Cultures of the Gulf South We use cookies to ensure that we give you the best experience on our website. If you continue to use this site we will assume that you are happy with it.Ok