COLLEGE OF PROFESSIONAL STUDIES & FINE ARTS I SCHOOL MAP FOR DIRECTIONS & PARKING I OFFICE PHONE: 619.594.6031 Skip to content About Community Engagement Facilities Community Music School Campanile Music Festival Job Opportunities Hire Student Musicians Contact Directions / Parking Tickets Majors & Degrees Composition & Technology Conducting Dance Ethnomusicology Jazz Studies Music Education Music Entrepreneurship & Business Music Recording Technology & Audio Design Musicology Performance Studies ProfessionalStudies Student Handbooks People Administration & Staff Advising Alumni Ensembles in Residence Faculty Students Student Internships Student Handbooks Job Opportunities Admission Dance Undergraduate Music Undergraduate Music Graduate Performing Groups Bands Chamber Music Choral Jazz Ensembles Marching & Pep Bands Opera Orchestra World Music University Dance Company Tickets & Calendar Directions / Parking Buy Tickets Now Ways To Give About Majors & Degrees People Admission Performing Groups Tickets & Calendar Ways To Give Performing Groups Quick Links Bands Chamber Music Choral Jazz Ensembles Marching & Pep Bands Opera Orchestra World Music University Dance Company UPCOMING Events Click for a full list of upcoming events. PERFORMING OPPORTUNITIES Performing is at the heart of the School of Music and Dance and we offer numerous opportunities for both majors and non-majors to perform in a wide variety of ensembles. All performance ensembles are under the guidance of experienced faculty who promote excellence and professionalism in the performance environment. Whether you are a clarinetist interested in symphonic experience, a dancer with a deep background in modern practice, a singer with a passion for choir or opera, or a mariachi violinist - you’ll find a range of engaging options to meet your interests. All undergraduate music and dance majors have ensemble performance requirements in the BA, BM or BFA degrees. Some of the School’s groups are open by audition only, while others are open to a wider population of performers seeking to participate in music or dance activities while attending the university. Bands Chamber Music Choir Jazz Ensembles Marching & Pep Bands Opera Orchestra World Music University Dance Company News / Announcements PSFA Student Q&A: Dayne Sakazaki As we enter the fall ‘21 semester, the College of Professional Studies and Fine Arts wants to know how students are adjusting. Read School of Music and Dance’s Dayne Sakazaki’s reflections on a new and very different school year. School of Music and Dance Presents “Nothing Gold Can Stay” at the Historic Balboa Theatre The SDSU Wind Symphony and Symphony Orchestra present an evening of music engaging community healing through the arts. The Arts Alive Discovery Series will also host a discussion panel. Bill Yeager Jazz Orchestra premieres in Smith Recital Hall The program consisted of challenging charts taken from Louie Bellson’s personal library, which was inherited by Yeager upon Bellson’s passing. SDSU’s Imperial Valley Campus and Mesa Campus Unite for Music Festival The campus collaboration includes two days of performances featuring classical, gospel, choral, folklorico, and dance. SMD Links School of Music & Dance 5500 Campanile Drive, San Diego, CA 92182-7902 Phone: 619.594.6031 Fax: 619.594.1692 Accessibility | Download Adobe Reader for PDF files | Documents in MS Word (DOC) format require a Microsoft Word compatible viewer to view The statements found on this page/site are for informational purposes only. While every effort is made to ensure that this information is up-to-date and accurate, official information can be found in the university publications. © School of Music and Dance