Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Music Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events Search Department of Music Concentrators Breadcrumb Home People Sub Navigation In This Section Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni Concentrators Cooper Cardone Cooper Cardone ‘23 is a singer/composer from Rhode Island concentrating in Music and Theatre Arts. His experience comes primarily from choral and theatrical performance, but at Brown he has broadened his interests to incorporate composition, music direction, and music production. Cooper is a part of the Brown University Chorus and participates in acapella and student theatre on campus. Hiro Cho Hiro Cho ‘23 is pursuing theories of music, drawing from continental European philosophy and musicology’s scholarships on voice, performance, and bodies. Main interests circle around the question of Being, phenomenological hermeneutics, and the problems of identity in musical experiences. Influences include Martin Heidegger, Plato, Carolyn Abbate, Hans-Georg Gadamer, and Judith Butler. Caroline Dressler Caroline Dressler ’23 is a violinist/fiddler from Arlington, MA concentrating in biology and music. After having spent a year studying contemporary improvisation in the Tufts/New England Conservatory dual degree program, she is excited to engage her interest in traditional music idioms through studies in ethnomusicology. At Brown, Caroline has been involved in the Orchestra and the World Music Ensemble; extracurricularly, she performs with several traditional/contemporary Celtic ensembles including Giulia Haible and Caroline Dressler, Scottish Fish, and Lampyridae. Caroline is also active in a number of Brown environmental and interfaith groups. Seamus Hubbard Flynn Seamus Hubbard Flynn '22 is a composer, classical flutist, experimental vocalist, and occasional music scholar. Their mediums include staff notation, fixed and live electronic setups, and improvisation based in text and graphics, where they seek to facilitate collaborative scenarios and imagine alternative frameworks. Seamus has also designed discussion sections on popular music, facilitated introductory aural skills lab sections, and co-organized concerts of student works. YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCjg8unEo2pFEWoxF5WlFiCQ Soundcloud: https://soundcloud.com/user-93541785 Emma Giventer-Braff Emma Giventer-Braff '23 is a classical soprano and aspiring music academic. She enjoys singing opera and art song, and also studying musicology, music theory, and composition. She also concentrates in linguistics, and studies individual modern languages. She is President of Brown Opera Productions, is writing her first opera (called I Capture the Castle), and interns for an NYC nonprofit that brings music to the homebound and elderly. Aaron Gruen Aaron Gruen ’23, from Germany, concentrates in Music and Chemistry. He is especially interested in cello performance and modern classical as well as prog-rock music. In his Junior year he spent a semester studying cello at the Prague Conservatory. He is also an avid chamber musician with his piano quintet, has a teaching studio at Moses Brown School, and leads the group Healing Through Harmony, brining music to hospitals and prisons. Outside of music, he works in a chemistry lab and is a member of the Brown running club. Elana Hausknecht Elana Hausknecht ‘22.5 is an undergraduate studying music and urban studies. Currently, she’s been taking time away from school to work in public parks with Americorps and, more recently, to participate in political organizing in RI and NY. Elana plays trumpet with Mariachi de Brown, rides the RIPTA, dialogues through (and about) writing, and listens to construction sites. For more: https://www.artistprof.com/me/elanah Maliha Islam Maliha Islam ’22. I am a singer, songwriter, and producer from Queens, New York. I am concentrating in computer science and music. I’m very interested in creating soundscapes and convey powerful emotion in electronic music production. I plan on releasing a full album before I graduate. Website Xinru Li Xinru Li ’22. Hello! I’m a music major originally from Chicago. I started my music journey at Brown with music theory and participating in the orchestra as a violist, then got into conducting, music directing/producing student theater, and piano. Recently, I’m getting interested in the using AI to make music space and intersections between music + technology + cultural change. Marijke Perry Marijke Perry is double concentrating in Music and Classics and is studying mostly theory and composition. She is particularly interested in vocal and theatrical performance, and as such participates in extracurricular musical groups on campus, such as Chorus and the Madrigal singers. She likes to record music at home, but her three dogs make it difficult, as they are all very vocal. Website Rebecca Rosenzweig Rebecca Rosenzweig ‘23 is an undergraduate studying Neuroscience and Music. She is mostly interested in classical cello performance and theory, participating in AMP and Chamber at Brown. She has recently been exploring different music styles in her studies. Outside of music, Rebecca works at CareerLAB as a PCA and at The Bradley Sleep Lab as a sleep technician and doing research. Ben West Ben West '22.5 is an undergraduate studying music and performance studies. They are interested in free improvisation, soundpainting, bridging classical, noise, and rock sensibilities and unearthing whacky and unruly sounds. Ben likes to think about how their body and their memories are related to communal music making practices. Ben loves to make music with everyone and everything around them! Ben loves to ski, do weird dances, backpack, and make bizarre sounds. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Concentrators Open details for Concentrators Bookmark this Page