Skip to main content University College Department of Music Menu Close Academics Music Minors Arts Entrepreneurship Minor Music Courses Beginner Classes Theory Placement Scholarships Perform Ensembles Auditions Practice Rooms Rentals Student Organizations Community Programs Summer Camps High School Band Day Support the Department News and Events Concerts Price Music Series Wolf Tones Magazine More News About Our People Our History Contact Us Give Now Academics Academics Music Minors Arts Entrepreneurship Minor Music Courses Beginner Classes Theory Placement Scholarships Perform Perform Ensembles Auditions Practice Rooms Rentals Student Organizations Student Organizations Community Programs Community Programs Summer Camps High School Band Day Support the Department Support the Department News and Events News and Events Concerts Price Music Series Wolf Tones Magazine More News About About Our People Our History Contact Us Give Now Join us for music summer camps Think and do something different this summer by attending one of our middle school or high school music camps for a deep dive into electronic music or marching band conducting. Learn more about music camps Make music at NC State Our courses, ensembles, minors and affiliated student organizations are open to all students at NC State, regardless of major. Join your Pack today and make music a part of your college experience. Perform with us Study music or arts entrepreneurship We offer a wide range of music courses that satisfy your major’s GEP requirements, in addition to performance ensembles and minors in music or arts entrepreneurship. Follow your interests where they lead. Find a minor or course Find your music community Join one of more than a dozen music student organizations devoted to music interests both performing and nonperforming, and make friends for life. Join your Pack Experience music at NC State At NC State, our student-musicians come from every college on campus to make music in our ensembles, study music or arts entrepreneurship, and find their music community. Be a part of the NC State music experience on social media. Follow us on Instagram Traveling to France with the #PowerSoundOfTheSouth Have you always wanted to learn to play an instrum Meet our 2022 #PowerSoundOfTheSouth drum majors— “[The music department is] genuinely one of the happiest communities I’ve ever been a part of. Everybody in the department is there because they care about making music with other people.” Anna Lee, ’22 Founder & President, Music Theory Club Minor in Flute Performance Home of the Power Sound of the South™ With more than 300 active members in the world’s most dangerous marching band, and thousands of alumni all over the world, our Wolfpack is strong. Learn more What’s happening in the department of music Read more stories AnnE Ford’s Final Student Chronicle: Graduation After chronicling the NC State student experience for two years, AnnE Ford graduated in spring. ‘Whatever You Need, I’m There’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Emily and Alyssa Brought together by the saxophone section, best friends reminisce on their time in Carter-Finley Stadium. NC State Jazz Orchestra invited to perform at Midwest Clinic The NC State Jazz Orchestra has been invited to perform at the 76th annual Midwest Clinic international band and orchestra conference, which will take place in Chicago in December. This is the first time a collegiate ensemble from North Carolina will perform at the conference. Inspire lifelong music-making When you support the Department of Music, you’re providing resources that enable NC State student-musicians to continue playing, learning and making music now and into the future, just like these Power Sound of the South™ alumni. Join our passionate alumni community in their commitment to the student-musicians of NC State by making a gift to the Music Enhancement Fund. Give to the Department of Music Flute performance minor and 2019-20 Toni Christine Masini Memorial Music Scholarship recipient Reece Neff, ’20, speaks with Mickie Masini, Toni’s mother, following the scholarship presentation at the ECU football game on Aug. 31. Photo by Dan Jahn. Department of Music Home Price Music Center 2620 Cates Ave. Campus Box 7311 Raleigh, NC 27695-7311 music-info@ncsu.edu 919.515.2981 Subscribe to our newsletter Email Name This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged. Submit Join our music community Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.