Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu Admissions How to Apply FAQ contact us Close General Information Application Materials Toggle Degree Programs A completed online application is due by December 1 each year and must include the following items: 1. Online application (available on September 15) The application includes sections to upload all of your application materials. Anything sent by mail (any supplementary materials that cannot be uploaded) must be postmarked December 1 or earlier. Applicants to the Yale School of Music’s choral conducting, early music voice, and organ programs must also submit an application through the Institute of Sacred Music (more information below under Program-Specific Requirements). B.A./M.M. applicants applying as high school seniors must also submit a college application through the Yale College Office of Undergraduate Admissions. B.A./M.M. applicants applying as current Yale College students must meet specific requirements (more information below under Program-Specific Requirements). For all other applicants, the Yale School of Music application is the only Yale University application you need to submit. 2. $150 application fee Applications will not be reviewed unless the application fee is paid. The fee is nonrefundable. We do not offer fee waivers except for B.A./M.M. applicants applying to Yale College simultaneously who received an application fee waiver from Yale College. The fee should be paid online by credit card. Alternatively, we accept checks or money orders (made payable to Yale University). If paying by check, please include your name and application reference number on the check. All checks must be in U.S. dollars and drawn on a U.S. bank. To pay the fee online, first submit your application, then log in and click the link on your status page to pay the fee: Submit Payment for 150.00 USD. 3. Prescreening recordings We strongly prefer that all applicants submit prescreening recordings online, as part of the online application, instead of by mail. These files or website links should be uploaded directly to the online application. Yale does not assume responsibility for loss of recordings and scores; copies should be sent. It is very important that the audio quality of audio and video recordings is excellent. If you are given a choice between submitting audio recordings or video recordings, and your video does not have high audio quality, we prefer that you submit an audio recording. Please see Prescreening Resources at the bottom of the page for more information. Live auditions will be held for applicants who pass the prescreening round. Attendance is required. 4. Résumé or CV Your résumé or CV helps give us a full picture of your musical background and experience. It is helpful to include information such as your schools, private teachers, musical experience (solo, chamber, orchestral), music festivals attended, and teaching experience. 5. Letters of recommendation (3) Letters should be written by teachers, mentors, or advisors with knowledge of your abilities as a musician, and submitted as part of the online application. We will also accept letters by mail (with signature across envelope seal) or by email to gradmusic.admission@yale.edu, as long as the recommender's information has been entered within the application. Letters may be submitted throughout the month of December, but we strongly prefer to receive them by the December 1 application deadline. We encourage applicants to open the application as soon as possible and enter contact information for the three letters of recommendation. Adding the contact information triggers an electronic form which is sent to the recommender for them to submit their letter. While we will accept letters of recommendation throughout the month of December, we strongly prefer to receive all letters by the December 1 deadline. Entering the information early allows the recommenders ample time to write. All applicants must submit three (3) letters of recommendation, with the exception of current Yale School of Music students who must submit one (1) letter of recommendation. 6. Academic transcripts We require transcripts from all universities and conservatories that you have attended or are currently attending. An unofficial transcript can be uploaded to your online application, but please make sure that the transcript is legible and includes your name, the name of the institution, the degree program, and your GPA. On the “Education History” tab of the application, you will see an upload button for transcripts after clicking “Add Institution.” If you are offered a live audition, we will require official transcripts to be mailed from your schools in a sealed envelope. All transcripts must be in English. Final transcripts must be translated into English by a certified translator, if applicable. 7. TOEFL score (non-native English speakers) The TOEFL is required for applicants whose first language is not English. Official score reports must be sent directly from ETS; note that TOEFL scores are only valid within two years of the test date. All applicants must send in a TOEFL score by December 1, regardless of whether or not the score is passing. It is possible to be offered a live audition with a score below the minimum. However, Yale School of Music will not extend an offer of admission to any student who has not met our TOEFL requirement before March 1 of that application cycle. Minimum Score Requirements Artist Diploma: 80 internet, 215 computer, or 552 paper All other degree programs: 86 internet, 227 computer, or 567 paper *MyBest scores or Essentials Test will not be accepted Reporting Information ETS Institution Code: 3992 ETS Department Code: none required COVID-19 Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have extended testing options to include TOEFL iBT Home Edition and TOEFL ITP Plus for China. Official score reports must be sent to us directly from ETS using our institution reporting code 3992. TOEFL Exemption You may request a TOEFL waiver if you have studied at English-speaking institutions full-time for six years or more. This means six years prior to beginning school at Yale. Waiver requests should be made online as part of the online application and include the following: A short description of your education history (tell us when you started attending English-speaking schools and how many years you studied at each school) Copies of your university, high school, and/or middle school transcripts that show six years or more of strong grades at English-speaking schools Please note that TOEFL waivers are evaluated on a case-by-case basis and are not guaranteed for those who have studied at English-speaking schools for six or more years. Uploaded transcripts must show strong academic performance and significant coursework in areas other than music performance. The Yale School of Music reserves the right to deny or rescind acceptance decisions from candidates who falsified information to obtain a favorable outcome. 8. GRE score As of March 1, 2021, applicants to the composition department are no longer required to take the Graduate Record Exam (GRE) General Test. With this update, the GRE is no longer required of any applicant in any area of focus. ⁠ Program-Specific Requirements Toggle D.M.A. Applicants D.M.A. applicants are required to submit supplementary materials in addition to the items listed above, including a significant sample of past scholarly writing on a musical or non-musical topic (5-20 pages) and seven short answer questions, including your present career plans and reasons for pursuing admission to the D.M.A. program. Entrance Exam Applicants must pass the entrance exam in addition to passing the live audition to be considered for admission. The entrance exam contains four sections: Listening and score identification Music history Tonal analysis and musicianship 20th century analysis The musicianship portion tests your aural perception of melody, harmony, rhythm, and phrase structure in music through dictation and other written exercises. D.M.A. applicants must take the exams at the designated times and days. Exams are not offered on any other dates and will not be rescheduled. All exams will be conducted virtually to comply with the University's COVID-19 policy and avoid large gatherings. Interviews Applicants may be invited to a 30-minute virtual interview with members of the D.M.A. Examination Committee. Please see Prescreening Repertoire + Live Auditions section below for a list of important dates. No one may apply to the D.M.A. program more than twice. download sample dma exams Applying to more than one degree program If you are applying to the A.D. program, for example, and you would also like to be considered for another degree program (such as the M.M.A., M.M., or Certificate), you must select A.D. as your primary degree program on the online application. Then you may select a secondary degree program. D.M.A. applicants interested in being considered for the M.M.A. or A.D. program may select M.M.A. or A.D. as the secondary degree program. You may only apply to a maximum of two degree programs with each application. Institute of Sacred Music (ISM) applicants Applicants to any of the ISM programs (choral conducting, early music voice, or organ) must submit both the School of Music online application and the ISM online application. ISM Admissions B.A./M.M. applicants Applying as a prospective Yale College student B.A./M.M. applicants who are high school seniors must submit applications to both Yale College and Yale School of Music for the same academic year. The two applications are entirely independent of each other. The application deadline for the next academic year is December 1 for the School of Music and January 2 for Yale College. If you qualify for a fee waiver with your Yale College application, we will also waive your School of Music application fee. Live auditions will be held for applicants who pass the prescreening round, and attendance is required. The School of Music’s Admissions Office will notify applicants of prescreening results by the end of January and of live audition results by early April. Yale College Admissions Applying as a current Yale College student B.A./M.M. degree program applicants should consult their major teacher at the beginning of the first term of their junior year. By the end of junior year, the applicant should have completed, at a minimum, the following courses: Music majors: four terms of performance (MUSI 360a or b, 361a or b, 460a or b, 461a or b) and MUSI 210a or b and 211a or b Majors in subjects other than music: four terms of performance (MUSI 360a or b, 361a or b, 460a or b, 461a or b) and four courses, which usually include two courses from the MUSI 301–311 series, and two of MUSI 350a, 351b, 352b, or 353a Live auditions will be held for applicants who pass the prescreening round, and attendance is required. The School of Music’s Admissions Office will notify applicants of prescreening results by the end of January and of live audition results by mid-March. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Toggle YSM-HBCU Partnership The goal of this partnership is to encourage students at Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) to consider applying to the Yale School of Music (YSM) for graduate school, as well as applying to the Norfolk Chamber Music Festival/Yale Summer School of Music. This partnership arises from an effort to create a more welcoming, nourishing, and equitable environment for students and a more inclusive and diverse student body overall. As part of this partnership, the Yale School of Music will waive the $150 application fee for students who are recommended by HBCU faculty. Partnering institutions are asked to send a list of recommended students to YSM Director of Admissions by Nov. 1. There is no limit to the number of students HBCU faculty can recommend. If students or representatives of HBCU's would like further information, please contact gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. TOEFL Requirement for Non-Native English Speakers Toggle TOEFL Score The TOEFL is required for applicants whose first language is not English. Official score reports must be sent directly from ETS; note that TOEFL scores are only valid within two years of the test date. All applicants must send in a TOEFL score by December 1, regardless of whether or not the score is passing. It is possible to be offered a live audition with a score below the minimum. However, Yale School of Music will not extend an offer of admission to any student who has not met our TOEFL requirement before March 1 of that application cycle. Minimum Score Requirements Artist Diploma: 80 internet, 215 computer, or 552 paper All other degree programs: 86 internet, 227 computer, or 567 paper *MyBest scores or Essentials Test will not be accepted Reporting Information ETS Institution Code: 3992 ETS Department Code: none required COVID-19 Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have extended testing options to include TOEFL iBT Home Edition and TOEFL ITP Plus for China. Official score reports must be sent to us directly from ETS using our institution reporting code 3992. Students whose first language is English are automatically exempt from this requirement. Students whose first language is not English wishing to be considered for an exemption must follow the exemption instructions below. TOEFL Exemption You may request a TOEFL waiver if you have studied at English-speaking institutions full-time for six years or more prior to beginning school at Yale. Waiver requests should be made online as part of the online application and include the following: A short description of your education history (tell us when you started attending English-speaking schools and how many years you studied at each school) Copies of your university, high school, and/or middle school transcripts that show six years or more of strong grades at English-speaking schools Please note that TOEFL waivers are evaluated on a case-by-case basis and are not guaranteed for those who have studied at English-speaking schools for six or more years. Uploaded transcripts must show strong academic performance and significant coursework in areas other than music performance. String Quartet Fellowship Toggle Please note there is no String Quartet Fellowship vacancy for the 2022-2023 academic year. A completed application is due by December 1. Only one member of an ensemble should fill out the application. This person will be considered the “primary contact” for the group. The primary contact must be prepared to include the following information about each quartet member: Date of birth Email address Individual bio Application materials As part of the application, the primary contact for the group must include: An individual bio for each quartet member A group bio A repertoire list Two letters of recommendation Prescreening recordings String Quartet Fellowship applicants do not need to submit TOEFL scores or academic transcripts. Only one application fee ($150) is required for each ensemble. Collaborative Piano Fellowship Toggle A completed application for the Collaborative Piano Fellowship is due by December 1. As part of the application, each applicant must include the following: Curriculum vitae* Two letters of recommendation Audition recordings Application fee: $80 *An applicant’s curriculum vitae should address the applicant’s musical background (please include the repertoire list) and any employment or administrative experience. Collaborative piano fellowship applicants do not need to submit TOEFL scores or academic transcripts. Audition requirements can be found by scrolling down to the next section. Yale University’s Equal Opportunity Statement Toggle The University is committed to basing judgments concerning the admission, education, and employment of individuals upon their qualifications and abilities and affirmatively seeks to attract to its faculty, staff, and student body qualified persons of diverse backgrounds. In accordance with this policy and as delineated by federal and Connecticut law, Yale does not discriminate in admissions, educational programs, or employment against any individual on account of that individual’s sex, race, color, religion, age, disability, status as a veteran, or national or ethnic origin; nor does Yale discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression. University policy is committed to affirmative action under law in employment of women, minority group members, individuals with disabilities, and protected veterans. Inquiries concerning these policies may be referred to Valarie Stanley, Senior Director of the Office of Institutional Equity and Access, 221 Whitney Avenue; 4th Floor, 203-432-0849. For additional information, see oiea.yale.edu. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from sex discrimination in educational programs and activities at institutions that receive federal financial assistance. Questions regarding Title IX may be referred to the University’s Title IX Coordinator, Stephanie Spangler, at 203.432.4446 or at titleix@yale.edu, or to the U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 8th Floor, 5 Post Office Square, Boston MA 02109-3921; tel. 617.289.0111, fax 617.289.0150, TDD 800.877.8339, or ocr.boston@ed.gov. Personal Data Toggle Personal data collected by Yale University throughout the admissions process is collected for the primary purposes of considering your candidacy for admission and evaluating your eligibility for financial aid, if applicable. If you are admitted and enroll, your personal data will be used as necessary for registration and to facilitate your education. Clery Report learn more Toggle The Clery Report contains three years’ worth of campus crime statistics and certain security policy statements, fire safety information, and where students, faculty, and staff should go to report crimes. The report uses federally mandated definitions concerning the locations and types of crimes in order to allow for comparisons across campuses. Frequently Asked Questions Learn More Prescreening Repertoire + Live Auditions Updated January 31, 2022 The admissions committee has selected the following works as appropriate and acceptable for prescreening and live auditions. Students should adhere to the repertoire as much as possible. Still, we recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. In some cases, repertoire substitutions may be appropriate and acceptable. Please send questions to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Audition Week In light of the surge of the omicron variant and the tightening health precautions mandated by Yale University, all Audition Week activities will take place virtually this year. Live Auditions Monday-Sunday, Feb. 21-27, 2022 D.M.A. Exams and Interviews Exams: Saturday-Sunday, Feb. 19-20, 2022 Interviews: Sunday-Tuesday, Feb. 27-Mar. 1, 2022 D.M.A. exams and interviews will also be conducted virtually to comply with the University’s COVID-19 policy and avoid large gatherings. Please click below for more information. D.M.A. Exams and Interviews Toggle Applicants to the D.M.A. degree program must audition, interview, and take pertinent exams. Exams Saturday–Sunday, Feb. 19–20, 2022 Applicants must take the exams at the designated times and dates. These exams are not offered on any other dates and will not be rescheduled. On both days, there's a mandatory check-in at 9 a.m. Eastern Time (ET), and exams will run from 9:30 a.m. until 12 p.m. ET. All exams will be conducted virtually to comply with the University’s COVID-19 policy and avoid large gatherings. Sample exams can be found by scrolling up to the "Program-Specific Requirements" section. Interviews Sunday–Tuesday, Feb. 27–Mar. 1, 2022 Applicants may be invited to a 30-minute virtual interview with members of the D.M.A. Examination Committee. Applicants who are invited to interview will receive details from the Admissions Office on Saturday, February 26, 2022. Artist Diploma Auditions Toggle The first round of A.D. auditions will be heard by Yale School of Music faculty as part of the regular auditions for each area. After the first round, select candidates will be advanced to a final round of auditions which will be a recorded submission in conjunction with a required 15-minute interview on Saturday, February 26, 2022. Those who advance to the final round will be given until Saturday, February 26, 2022 at 9 a.m. ET to submit their portfolio. The recorded submission must be a minimum of thirty minutes in length and should include several selections (full movements) of repertoire that is suitable for a recital. We ask that these recordings be provided as unlisted YouTube links. You may combine all recordings into one link, or submit a separate link for each selection. More information will be communicated to the finalists. The final round will be adjudicated by a committee of external jurors. Brass Toggle Horn, Trumpet, Trombone, Tuba Prescreening recording (audio or video; piano not required) Applicants should prepare repertoire that will show their playing to the best advantage with the most variety possible both instrumentally and musically. Repertoire should display a broad range of styles, genres, and technical abilities, with examples covering the full range of the instrument, and should include the following: Four or more varied standard orchestral excerpts Three or more varied selections from a solo piece, étude, or individual movements of a sonata or concerto Live audition (piano not required) Audition and prescreening repertoire may be the same or different, as long as both programs adhere to above-mentioned guidelines. Auditions will be held Monday–Wednesday, Feb. 21–23, 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Composition Toggle Prescreening recording Applicants should submit scores and recordings of two to three recent works (no more than three will be considered), which may be written for different genres or instrumentations and/or electronic media. Composers should upload PDFs of scores, as well as recordings, videos, or external links to the online application. Interview Applicants who advance beyond the prescreening round will be invited to New Haven for a 30-minute interview with the composition faculty. Interviews will be held Wednesday–Thursday, Feb. 23–24, 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Please send any questions you might have to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Conducting Toggle Orchestral Conducting Prescreening recording (video required) Applicants should submit video excerpts that best showcase their orchestral-conducting skills. While no specific repertoire is required, it should include at least two contrasting musical styles of standard orchestral repertoire. Submitted videos must have been filmed within the previous 12 months. A minimum of three excerpts should be uploaded and contain the following: Footage of the applicant conducting an ensemble/orchestra in concert Footage of the applicant working with an ensemble/orchestra in rehearsal Note: Each piece of footage must include the title of the piece, the date, and the name of the ensemble. In addition, for rehearsal footage, it would be helpful for the conductor to wear a lavalier microphone, to avoid poor audio quality. The video camera should be positioned behind the orchestra and pointed at the conductor. We are most interested in rehearsal footage, although some concert footage should also be included. Each video clip and any additional samples should be uploaded as separate video files and should total no more than 20 minutes in length. Videos featuring full orchestra are preferred, but clips of an applicant leading an ensemble of about 15 musicians is acceptable. Live audition Select applicants will be invited to New Haven in February for a series of interviews and for a live audition. Invited applicants will be asked to conduct several selections from the standard orchestral repertoire with the Yale Philharmonia. Repertoire and the audition date will be included in the invitation letter. Auditions will be postponed until after March 1. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Choral Conducting Prescreening recording (video required) Applicants should submit a video of at least 15 minutes that shows them conducting a choral ensemble in rehearsal and in performance. Live audition Applicants who are invited to New Haven for a live audition will be expected to demonstrate a highly developed level of comprehensive musicianship that includes an understanding of theory, aural skills, keyboard skills, harmonic dictation, and score reading. Details about the live audition will be noted in the invitation. Auditions will be held in February 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Guitar Toggle For M.M., M.M.A., and Certificate applicants Prescreening recording (audio or video): A work by J.S. Bach (prepare the larger movement – the Prelude or Prelude and Fugue), arrangements of music by Scarlatti, Francesca Caccini, Élisabeth-Claude Jacquet de La Guerre, three movements from a Silvius Leopold Weiss suite, or others A work or two shorter works by Emilia Giuliani-Guglielmi, Mauro Giuliani, Sor, Mertz, or others A work of the 20th or 21st century, such as Villa-Lobos etudes (four of the 12 etudes) or a work by Ponce, Kay, José, Britten, Martin, Brouwer, S. Assad, C. Assad, Tower, León, Flippin, Lash, Ginastera, Takemitsu, or others Applicants who are also composers are encouraged to include a work of their own, although it cannot replace requirement number 3 Applicants may also consider including any of the following repertoire (not required): Renaissance music by Dowland and/or Da Milano, or arrangements of music by Granados and Albeniz Live audition In addition to the prescreening repertoire, applicants who are invited to a live audition must prepare a short piece that will be announced and e-mailed to applicants four to six weeks before the audition. Note: The guitar repertoire is vast. If a piece an applicant for any program wants to include is not on the above list, the applicant is encouraged to ask if the substitute repertoire is acceptable. Auditions will be held Wednesday, Feb. 23, 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Please send any questions you might have to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. For A.D. and D.M.A. applicants Prescreening recording (audio or video): Applicants must submit a live recording of 75 minutes of music (the equivalent of a full recital program) plus a movement of a concerto. The recital program must include the following: A full Bach suite or partita, or the Prelude, Fugue, and Allegro; or the Chaconne from the D-minor Partita A work from either the Classical or Romantic period, such as Emilia Giuliani-Guglielmi, Mauro Giuliani, Sor, Mertz, or others A work of the 20th or 21st century, such as Villa-Lobos études (four of the 12 études) or a work by Ponce, Kay, José, Britten, Martin, Brouwer, S. Assad, C. Assad, Tower, León, Flippin, Lash, Ginastera, Takemitsu, or others The first movement of one of the following concertos (with piano or orchestra): Arnold’s Guitar Concerto, Brouwer’s Concerto de Toronto, Corigliano’s Troubadours (Variations for Guitar and Chamber Orchestra), Giuliani’s Concerto No. 1 in A major, Goss’s Guitar Concerto, Ponce’s Concierto Del Sur, Rodrigo’s Concierto de Aranjuez, Sculthorpe’s Nourlangie, Takemitsu’s To the Edge of Dream, Tedesco’s Guitar Concerto No. 1 in D major, or Villa-Lobos’ Concerto for Guitar and Small Orchestra Applicants who are also composers are encouraged to include a work of their own, although it cannot replace requirement number 3 Applicants may include, though it’s not required, music by Milan, Dowland, and Da Milano, or arrangements of works by Granados and Albéniz Live audition In addition to the prescreening repertoire, applicants who are invited to audition must prepare a short piece that will be announced and emailed to applicants four to six weeks before the audition. Note: The guitar repertoire is vast. If a piece an applicant for any program wants to include is not on the above list, the applicant is encouraged to ask if the substitute repertoire is acceptable. Auditions will be held Wednesday, Feb. 23, 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Please send any questions you might have to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Harp Toggle Prescreening recording (audio or video): A work by Bach or another Baroque composer including but not limited to Scarlatti (two sonatas of contrasting style) or Handel A solo work from the standard repertoire, including but not limited to Impromptu by Fauré, Suite by Britten, Légende by Renié, works by Parish Alvars, or Rhapsodie by Grandjany A sonata from the 20th century repertoire including but not limited to works by Casella, Tournier, Tailleferre, Hindemith, or Houdy Live audition Audition and prescreening repertoire may be the same or different, as long as both programs adhere to above-mentioned guidelines. All works should be performed from memory. Auditions will be held Tuesday, Feb. 22, 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Harpsichord Toggle Prescreening recording (audio): Any contrapuntal work by J.S. Bach Two or more French dances from either the 17th or 18th century Applicant’s choice: In addition to the above-mentioned repertoire, please choose a representative example from either the English Virginalist school, an early 17th century Italian toccata, a sonata by Domenico Scarlatti, or a piece of 20th or 21st century composition Live audition Applicants will be responsible for the above-mentioned literature and, additionally, any contrasting work by a different composer. Applicants will also be assessed on their level of competence as continuo players. Auditions will be held Tuesday, Feb. 22, 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Organ Toggle Prescreening recording: Representative works from the major areas of organ literature: A major work by Bach A Romantic work A contemporary work Live audition Applicants are strongly encouraged, though not required, to perform different repertoire than they performed in the prescreening round. However, works should be chosen from the same three categories above. In addition to performing prepared works, applicants will be asked to demonstrate sight-reading ability and other essential musical skills. Time will be allotted for conversation with faculty. Auditions will be held in February 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Please send any questions you might have to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Percussion Toggle Prescreening recording (video required; unedited): A major work composed for either marimba or vibraphone One piece from Elliott Carter’s Eight Pieces for Four Timpani A solo piece for multiple percussion An étude for snare drum Live audition: A major work composed for either marimba or vibraphone (examples of acceptable works include, but are not limited to, Minoru Miki’s Time for Marimba; Gordon Stout’s Two Mexican Dances; Steven Mackey’s See Ya Thursday; Philippe Manoury’s Le Livre des Claviers; or Franco Donatoni’s Omar) A solo piece for multiple percussion (examples of acceptable works include, but are not limited to, Iannis Xenakis’s Rebonds or Psappha; David Lang’s Anvil Chorus; or James Wood’s Rogosanti) Jacques Delecluse’s Étude No. 1 Anthony Cirone’s Étude No. 32 Two pieces from Elliott Carter’s Eight Pieces for Four Timpani Two- and four-mallet marimba sight-reading will be required The following orchestral excerpts: Timpani: Beethoven’s Symphony No. 9 Timpani: Richard Strauss’ Burleske Timpani: Mozart’s Symphony No. 39 Snare drum: Rimsky-Korsakov’s Scheherazade Xylophone: Messiaen’s Exotic Birds Glockenspiel: Debussy’s La Mer Auditions will be held Thursday–Friday, Feb. 24–25, 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Piano Toggle Prescreening recording (audio or video; no concertos): A Bach prelude and fugue or another original work by Bach (not a transcription) A sonata or variations by Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven, or Schubert (for a prescreening recording, applicants should provide at least two contrasting movements; for a live audition, applications should prepare an entire work) A larger 19th century Romantic work A 20th- or 21st century composition (for a multi-movement work, provide at least two contrasting movements) Live audition Audition and prescreening repertoire may be the same or different, as long as both programs adhere to the above-mentioned guidelines. Auditions will be held Monday–Friday, Feb. 21–25, 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about repertoire substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Strings Toggle Violin Prescreening recording (video preferred, with high-quality audio): One movement of an unaccompanied Bach sonata or partita (A.D., M.M.A., and D.M.A. applicants must provide two movements) First movement of a Mozart concerto Any Paganini caprice One movement of a Classical (other than Mozart), Romantic, or 20th century concerto A short standalone piece of the applicant’s choice (from any genre or style) that is not a movement from a sonata or concerto Live audition (pianist preferred, but not required; please prioritize your health, safety, and comfort): Audition and prescreening repertoire may be the same or different, as long as both programs adhere to above-mentioned guidelines. (A.D., M.M.A. and D.M.A. applicants must play Mozart at the live audition. M.M. and Certificate applicants will not be asked to play Mozart at the live audition.) Auditions will be held Monday–Friday, February 21-25, 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Viola Prescreening recording (video or audio): Applicants must provide at least 15 minutes of music of their choice, including three works of contrasting styles. One movement of each work is acceptable, and applicants should be sure that at least one of the pieces (the concerto or the sonata) is a Romantic work. It is not necessary to include the pieces required for the live audition. Live audition (pianist preferred, but not required; please prioritize your health, safety, and comfort): The prelude from any Bach cello suite or the first movement of any Bach sonata or partita for solo violin, or the Chaconne Either the first movement of a Romantic viola sonata by a composer such as Brahms, Glinka, Franck, Schubert, or Vieuxtemps, or a transcription of a piece such as Brahms Op. 38 or Op. 78, the Rachmaninoff Cello Sonata, the Grieg Cello Sonata The first movement of a viola concerto by a composer such as Mozart (Clarinet Concerto, arr. for viola), Bartók, Hindemith, Walton, Martinů, Bowen, Penderecki, Schnittke (first and second movements), or Elgar (Cello Concerto, arr. L. Tertis) A short required piece—such as Fauré, Après un rêve; Glazunov, Elegy; Tchaikovsky, Valse Sentimentale—that will be announced to invited applicants four to six weeks before the audition A.D. and D.M.A. applicants must also include (in addition to the pieces above) a piece of the candidate’s choice Applicants must be sure that at least one of the pieces (the concerto or the sonata) is a Romantic work. Auditions will be held Wednesday–Friday, Feb. 23–25, 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Cello Prescreening recording (video required): Prelude and another movement from a Bach Suite The first movement from one of the following concerti: Dvořák, Haydn D major, Schumann, Tchaikovsky, or Prokofiev Sinfonia Concertante (first or second movement) Applicant’s choice: a piece (solo or with piano) written after 1970 including but not limited to Sofia Gubaidulina’s 10 Preludes for cello solo; Tania Léon’s Four pieces for cello solo; Coleridge-Taylor Perkinson’s Lamentations: Black/Folk Song Suite for solo cello; Carlos Simon’s Lickety Split for cello and piano; and Errollyn Wallen’s Dervish for cello and piano Live audition (pianist preferred, but not required; please prioritize your health, safety, and comfort): Audition and prescreening repertoire may be the same or different, as long as both programs adhere to above-mentioned guidelines. Auditions will be held Monday–Tuesday, Feb. 21–22, 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Double Bass Prescreening recording (video required): A movement of a Bach cello suite (with repeats if not a prelude) Two contrasting movements from concertos, sonatas, or virtuoso pieces Two contrasting orchestral excerpts Live audition (pianist preferred, but not required; please prioritize your health, safety, and comfort): Prepare the same or different pieces as the prescreening recording (both programs should adhere to the above-mentioned guidelines), plus a short work by a contemporary composer such as Carter, Kurtág, Berio, Henze, Weinberg, or Persichetti. Auditions will be held Wednesday–Friday, Feb. 23–25, 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Voice Toggle Opera Prescreening recording (video strongly preferred; video required for at least five selections) Provide seven selections from the operatic, oratorio, and/or art-song repertoire of contrasting styles and languages. Four of these selections should be operatic arias. Live audition Audition and prescreening repertoire may be the same or different, as long as both programs adhere to above-mentioned guidelines. Auditions will be held in February 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Early Music, Oratorio + Chamber Ensemble Prescreening recording (audio or video; video required for at least one selection) Include seven selections of contrasting styles and languages from the sacred music (oratorio, mass, cantata, sacred song, etc.), opera, and art-song repertoire. Selections can be chosen from any period, including contemporary compositions. However, at least three selections should be from the Renaissance and Baroque periods. At least one aria by J.S. Bach is required. Applicants should choose selections that demonstrate their versatility as a performer. Video files should be named to include the piece title and date it was recorded. Live audition Live audition material should include five pieces of contrasting styles, languages, and periods. These selections may be the same or different works from the prescreening recording. Of the five selections, prepare at least two Baroque selections (including one aria by J.S. Bach) and a third selection written prior to 1700. All works should be chosen from the same reportorial categories as above and performed from memory. Applicants will be asked to demonstrate sight-reading ability and other essential musical skills. Auditions will be held in February 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Woodwinds Toggle Flute Prescreening recording (video required; pianist preferred, but not required; please prioritize your health, safety, and comfort): Dutilleux’s Sonatine for Flute and Piano (with piano) The second movement of Mozart’s Concerto in D major (with piano) On piccolo: Rossini’s Semiramide Overture (select one of the standard excerpts) A work of the applicant’s choice (complete work preferred) Live audition (pianist preferred, but not required; please prioritize your health, safety, and comfort): Jolivet’s Chant de Linos From memory: the second movement of Mozart’s Concerto in D major The first movement of any Vivaldi C-major piccolo concerto Auditions will be held Wednesday–Thursday, Feb. 23–24, 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Oboe Prescreening recording (audio or video; pianist preferred, but not required; please prioritize your health, safety, and comfort): Applicants should provide 15 to 20 minutes of music of their choice, sampled from each of the following: A major sonata A solo piece or étude A major concerto Four varied orchestral excerpts Live audition (pianist preferred, but not required; please prioritize your health, safety, and comfort): Two movements of a major sonata Two movements of a Baroque concerto, sonata, or solo piece Two movements of a major concerto (with cadenzas where applicable) Six varied orchestral excerpts Auditions will be held Wednesday–Thursday, Feb. 23–24, 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Clarinet Prescreening recording (audio or video; pianist preferred, but not required; please prioritize your health, safety, and comfort): Mozart: Clarinet Concerto with piano or orchestra accompaniment if possible Allegro: measure 57-115 Adagio: measure 1-8 Rondo: measure 1-31 (skip the rest) Bach: Flute Partita Sarabande (measure 1-16) and Bourrée anglaise (complete without repeats), played as written on B-flat clarinet (sounding 1 step lower than flute pitch) Schumann: the first movement of Fantasiestücke Op. 73, with piano if possible Beethoven: 1st clarinet excerpts from Symphony No. 6 Movement I: measure 474-493 Movement II: measure 68-77 A three to five minute excerpt from a contemporary work for unaccompanied clarinet including but not limited to Edison Denisov, Franco Donatoni, Donald Martino, Roberto Sierra, Jörg Widmann or Chen Yi Copland: cadenza of the Clarinet Concerto Live audition (pianist preferred, but not required; please prioritize your health, safety, and comfort): Applicants may be asked to perform selections from the above-mentioned repertoire list and to demonstrate their sight-reading ability. Auditions will be held Wednesday, Feb. 23, 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Bassoon Prescreening recording (video preferred; pianist preferred, but not required; please prioritize your health, safety, and comfort): Applicants should provide no more than 15 minutes of their playing, excerpted from the following: A sonata or other non-concerto work for bassoon and piano A concerto Two-to-four varied orchestral excerpts Live audition (pianist preferred, but not required; please prioritize your health, safety, and comfort): At least two movements of a major sonata or other non-concerto work for bassoon and piano At least two movements of a major concerto (with cadenzas where applicable) Six varied orchestral excerpts Auditions will be held Saturday, Feb. 26, 2022. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Questions about substitution should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. String Quartet Fellowship Toggle Please note there is no String Quartet Fellowship vacancy for the 2022-2023 academic year. Prescreening recording (video required) Three contrasting movements by three composers from different periods. One movement must be from a work by Mozart, Haydn, or Beethoven. Live audition 1. A complete string quartet by Haydn, Mozart or Beethoven 2. Two contrasting movements from a quartet by Schubert, Mendelssohn, Brahms, Schumann, Dvořák, Debussy or Ravel 3. Two contrasting movements from a quartet by Bartók, Shostakovich, Schoenberg, Berg, or Britten; or a complete work by Webern—Op. 5, Op. 9, or Op. 29 4. An additional contrasting work (or a significant portion of a larger work) of the group's choice If a group wants to include a work that is not on the above-mentioned list, the primary contact should email gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu to ask if the substitute repertoire is acceptable for requirements 2 and/or 3. Virtual auditions will be held the week of February 22, 2021. We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Please send any questions you might have to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Collaborative Piano Fellowship Toggle Prescreening recordings (video strongly preferred): with an instrumentalist, two contrasting movements of different styles from different periods one piece for solo piano Audition repertoire Applicants should be available for a live audition in New Haven. Specific repertoire, likely adhering to the following guidelines, will be provided with the audition invitation: one piece with a string player one piece with a wind player one piece for solo piano Auditions will be postponed until after March 1. Please see Audition Week section above for the latest information. Other application requirements can be found by scrolling up to the previous section. Prescreening Resources Here are some recommendations we hope will be useful as you prepare for an audition during the COVID-19 pandemic. How to make a Prescreening Video learn more Equipment Guide for Prescreening Videos learn more Frequently Asked Questions learn more More Opportunities Fellowship Programs The String Quartet Fellowship and Collaborative Piano Fellowship offer opportunities to young professionals who have launched a career in their field. learn more Affiliate Schools The Institute of Sacred Music In partnership with the School of Music and Divinity School, the ISM prepares its students for careers in sacred music performance and scholarship. learn more summer festival Study at Norfolk Continue your studies during the summer at the Norfolk Chamber Music Festival/Yale Summer School of Music in Norfolk, Connecticut. learn more Study at YSM Tel 203 432-4155 gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu Mailing Address Yale School of Music PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 FedEx, UPS, or DHL Yale School of Music 98 Wall Street New Haven, CT 06511 Reminders Online application opens on September 15 Applications due on December 1 Live auditions (invite only) mid- to late-February Final decision deadline April 15 Quick Links How to Apply Student Groups + Culture Admissions FAQs Follow Us See YSM Directory How to Apply General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use