Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Music Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events Search Department of Music Undergraduate The study of music—a phenomenon known to all people in all ages—lies naturally at the heart of a liberal education. Sub Navigation In This Section Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Undergraduate The study of music—a phenomenon known to all people in all ages—lies naturally at the heart of a liberal education. The Department of Music at Brown University provides an ideal environment for such an education, with its integrated faculty of scholars, performers, composers/media artists, and theorists. Our diverse curriculum combines creative courses in composition, technology, and performance with speculative studies in history, theory, ethnomusicology, philosophy, and musical aesthetics. Application merges with analysis, creation with cultural study, and multimedia experiments with broad meditations on sound, in a unique department that welcomes all. Apply to Brown Well-Rounded Training If you choose Music as a Concentration, you will be expected to achieve well-rounded training as a musician, regardless of the genre(s) in which you specialize. This training is manifested in the following general components: Fundamental skills are important for any musician, and therefore a minimum of two music theory/musicianship courses are required of all students who wish to Concentrate. Students have the opportunity to enter into various theory courses according to their interest and experience. Historical and cultural knowledge of music is another key area from which Concentrators are required to complete courses. These courses may be studies of Western or non-Western forms of music. The creation of music is also central to the Music Concentration. Students are encouraged to make music in a number of ways, including participation in ensembles, solo performance, composition, music production, and/or conducting. Music faculty will be available to advise students on shaping the flexible parts of their Concentration and achieving their goal at Brown. Explore our Current Undergraduate Courses What You Can Do With A Music Concentration The A.B. from Brown with a concentration in Music is a liberal arts degree, and our students undertake a wide variety of paths after graduation. Some become professional musicians, composers, producers, music scholars, or arts administrators. Others pursue careers in fields well served by a liberal arts training, including law, education, technology, or public policy. Like the opportunities at Brown, the possibilities are endless. Learn About the Concentration Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Undergraduate Open details for Undergraduate Bookmark this Page