Skip to main content Left arrow Barnard.edu Open Search Close Our Department Back The Juilliard School Manhattan School of Music Faculty Contact Us Academic Year 2021-22 Chorus & Voice Auditions Courses & Curriculum Back Major Requirements Minor Requirements Internships & Fellowships Student Resources Left arrow Barnard.edu Search for: Search All of Barnard.edu Music Barnard-Columbia Chorus Spring Concert, 2022 Chorus & Voice Auditions Spring 2022 Students are advised there is a $500 fee for voice lessons unless you sing in the choir, or you are a music major or a music minor. Barnard Columbia Chorus and Chamber Singers Tuesday, January 18th, 2022 6-9pm, on zoom:https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/9382096398 You may sing a song in any style or language. Voice Auditions for Solo Studio Lessons and Voice Classes Thursday, January 20th, 2022 6-10pm, on zoom: https://columbiauniversity.zoom.us/j/9382096398 You may sing a song in any style or language. Please reserve a 15min audition time slot here using your name and uni. After you have signed up for a time, you will be sent an email requesting a sample video and a form to fill out. Please complete an audition form and email it to professor Gail Archer and copy all of the voice instructors (emails can be found on the faculty page) a day prior to your audition. All auditions will take place on zoom. Undergraduate Study Barnard College enables young musicians to actively pursue his or her training in all aspects of music such as composition, computer music studies, music history, ethnomusicology, or music theory as composition a unique position that allows him or her access to vast selections of additional course offerings from Columbia University, Manhattan School of Music, and the Juilliard School. Barnard College provides the core of foundational studies so its purpose is not designed to produce professional musicians though are encouraged to go on to be such but is to provide the student the experience of doing serious and scholarly work within the field of music. The music program is composed of leading scholars who serve as dedicated teachers to our pool of 2400 extraordinary women and the metropolitan location grants students access to excellent cultural, intellectual, and social resources. Head on out with a student ticket to Carnegie Hall! Major & Minor Requirements News Adjunct Professor Marilyn McCoy Debuts Podcast "Embrace everything: The World of Gustav Mahler, Season 2: Mahler’s Symphony in C minor" July 7, 2021 On WNYC, Prof. Gail Archer explains need for more female composers Listen to an interview with the director of the Barnard-Columbia Chorus September 16, 2013 Renowned Organist Gail Archer Releases CD of Contemporary Ukrainian Organ Music Gail Archer, the director of the music program at Barnard College, Columbia University, has released her ninth album: Chernivtsi: Contemporary Ukrainian Organ Music on August 07, 2020. August 19, 2020 Events Dec 11 Celebrating the 75th Anniversary of the Harriman Institute December 11, 2021 | 8:00pm - 10:00pm Site Footer Copyright © 2022 Barnard College | Columbia University