Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu Norfolk Chamber Music Festival–Yale Summer School of Music Forms + FAQs Close what's here Concert FAQs Toggle What is chamber music? Chamber music is played and sung with and among friends in intimate settings. Ensembles typically vary in size, feature one performer on each part, and perform without a conductor. The repertoire is the largest and most diverse in the classical music genre. What should I wear? Your experience of the music is what’s important, so wear whatever makes you comfortable. We’re serious about our music, but we’re still pretty informal. We do ask that you refrain from using strong scents, as they may be distracting to other patrons. Are there any customs that I need to know? No special knowledge of music or experience is needed, although we ask all our patrons to respect one another’s concertgoing experience. Talking over the music, tapping your feet so that others can hear you, rustling the program-book pages, and other distracting noises are discouraged. When should I applaud? This is a question that concerns a lot of people. Holding one’s applause until the end of a complete work is a custom that evolved in concert halls during the early 20th century. Most chamber music works have several movements. If audience members respond to a movement with applause, go ahead and join in. The safest course is to wait until the performers stand and face the audience, signaling the end of a performance. When should I arrive? It’s a good idea to arrive 30 minutes before the beginning of a concert. This way, you’ll have plenty of time to park, peruse the concert program, and prepare yourself for the experience. The Music Shed opens at 7:30 p.m. for 8 p.m. concerts. The Box Office at the Music Shed opens at 7 p.m. on concert nights. A big part of the Norfolk concert experience is the social aspect. Come enjoy the grounds, have a picnic, and meet some friends. Our grounds are open all day and you’re more than welcome to come early and enjoy the idyllic setting. What if I’m late? Late seating will take place during the first appropriate pause in the program and at the discretion of management. May I use a cell phone during a concert? The use of all recording devices, including cameras, cell phones, and tablets is prohibited in the Music Shed. May I bring my children? Kids are admitted without charge to Norfolk events. We welcome children at our concerts provided they are not disruptive to other concertgoers. We encourage you to bring your children to our Emerging Artist Showcase concerts, which feature performances by Norfolk fellows. While these concerts are not programmed specifically for children, they do have a less formal atmosphere. Where can I park? Parking is conveniently located on the lawn adjoining the Music Shed. An easily accessible patron drop-off area is located at the front of the concert hall. Ample accessible parking is available. Is the Music Shed accessible? The Music Shed is accessible. Several parking spaces are available near the front door. We regret that ushers may not physically assist patrons wishing to transfer into theater seats. Service animals are welcome at the Music Shed. Can I bring a picnic? The grounds of the Ellen Battell Stoeckel Estate are open to the public on concert days and are perfect for a pre-concert picnic or a leisurely stroll. Bring a blanket and settle into a shady corner or use one of the many picnic tables on the grounds. No time to pack a picnic? Order one instead in the Box Dinners section of our Plan Your Visit page. Do you sell concessions? The concessions booth, located just outside the Music Shed, opens at 6 p.m. prior to each Friday and Saturday night concert and remains open through intermission. The booth sells assorted baked goods, ice cream, wine, beer, coffee, Harney and Sons teas, and sparkling water. No refreshments besides water are allowed in the Music Shed. Volunteer Application apply now Toggle Help bring the Festival to life this summer! By volunteering, you’ll gain an insider’s view of the Festival while making friends with Fellows, Festival Artists, staff, and other members of our dedicated volunteer team. For more information on volunteer opportunities please visit "Other Ways to Get Involved" on the Support + Join page or call 860 542-3000 or email norfolk.volunteers@yale.edu. To become a volunteer, please complete the Volunteer Application and someone from the Festival will contact you. Please call 860 542-3000 or email norfolk.volunteers@yale.edu with any questions. Volunteer Handbook Download Engage with YSM Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Tel 860 542-3000 norfolk@yale.edu Music in Schools Initiative musicinschools@yale.edu YSM Box Office concerts@yale.edu Quick Links Alumni Hub Concerts at Norfolk Concerts at YSM Giving at YSM Music in Schools Initiative Follow Us See YSM Directory Buy Concert Tickets General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use