Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Music Department of Music Contact Us Facebook Music@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Back to Top Nav Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP Back to Top Nav News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Apply People Current Students Graduate Apply to Dartmouth Share Masters Program in Digital Musics The Masters Program in Digital Musics is an interdisciplinary program for composers, artists and scholars working at the intersection of sonic arts and other disciplines including performance, design, technology, music theater, installation, cognitive neuroscience, computer science, improvisation and acoustics. Hacking Grains, Multi-Channel Hacked Rice Cookers, Trevor Van de Velde, WIP PreviousNext Graduate Overview Who is this program for? The Masters Program in Digital Musics is best suited to makers and thinkers who might not fit into traditional conservatory or graduate school programs. The flexibility of the program creates a space for individuals who are working in multiple fields at once. All three of the core faculty are composers reaching outside the scope of contemporary music, and into computer science, cognitive neuroscience, architecture, sculpture, music theater, and participatory performance. We see the program as a home for sonic misfits, oddballs and outsiders who are making work across the conventional boundaries of music and academia. The program works well as a prelude to a PhD or MFA program, but can also serve artists and practitioners who would benefit from time in the critical and intellectual environment of a graduate program in order to fortify a hybrid or non-traditional practice. Program Structure Dartmouth College operates on a quarter system, so Graduate Students in Digital Musics typically study on campus for seven 10-week terms over a two year period. Each term, students enroll in the Graduate Seminar and two other courses of their choice. These can be courses from the Undergraduate offerings at Dartmouth or independent Directed Research with Dartmouth faculty. At the end of the two years students present a Graduate Thesis which can take a creative, academic or hybrid form. Graduate Seminar Each term the Graduate Seminar is taught by one of the Digital Musics faculty members (Michael Casey, Ash Fure or César Alvarez). These seminars focus on technical or critical areas of interest to the cohort, and also serve as a collaborative "studio" for sharing work, receiving feedback and engaging in critical conversation around shared interests. The Grad Seminar is the consistent meeting place for the cohort, and it forms the academic "spine" of the students' two year course of study. Directed Research Every term students have the option to engage one-on-one with individual faculty members at Dartmouth through Directed Research. These could be based on particular topics, or designed as mentorships for a specific project. The Directed Research is a flexible structure for Grad Students in Digital Musics to build working relationships with mentors that have specific insight into a student's creative and/or academic trajectory. Undergraduate Classes Graduate students can take a wide range of courses across Dartmouth College, including but not limited to those in Music, Computer Science, Theater, Engineering, Studio Art, Perception and Cognition, Philosophy, Neuroscience, Mathematics, Languages, Women and Gender Studies, etc. For a comprehensive list of courses, see Dartmouth's Course Catalog. Student Led Curation and Programming In their second year, each student is asked to program a visiting artist, scholar or ensemble to visit the program and deliver a talk, performance or workshop. The funding for this is provided by the program, but the logistics and curation are student-led. Thesis Project Students are required to complete a thesis under the supervision of three Dartmouth faculty advisors, two of whom must be appointed in the Digital Musics program. A fourth committee member, who is external to Dartmouth, is allowed but not required. The thesis may take the form of a creative portfolio, with supporting written and audio-visual documentation; applied research; or academic research. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Music Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback