Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu Norfolk Chamber Music Festival–Yale Summer School of Music New Music Workshop admissions “Norfolk was amazing, challenging, and rewarding. I am so much richer for the experience. Jeremy Howard Beck, composer, (NCMF ‘10) Close June 23–July 2, 2022 Applications are no longer accepted for summer 2022. Under the direction of composer Martin Bresnick, the New Music Workshop nurtures a philosophy of equal collaboration between composers and performers under the supervision of distinguished resident composers and Festival artists. The workshop is interactive in the truest sense, focusing on the process of musical creation and collaboration from concept to concert. Each composer will write a short work and collaborate with performers over the course of the workshop. The 2022 Workshop is open to composers, clarinet, violin, cello, and piano. Fellows take part in a rigorous regimen of coachings, masterclasses, and rehearsals culminating in a a performance at the end of the workshop. Ample time is allowed for composing and practice. Each workshop participant will receive an Ellen Battell Stoeckel Fellowship covering the full cost of tuition, housing, and meals. All compositions will be workshopped, performed, and recorded. The Norfolk Chamber Music Festival – Yale Summer School of Music is continually monitoring the current health situation in light of the COVID-19 pandemic to ensure that moving forward with the program is safe and appropriate. We will follow Yale University and CDC recommendations and protocols for safety and preparedness. Vaccination is required for live auditions, and for participation in all three summer sessions. Faculty Martin Bresnick Charles T. Wilson Professor in the Practice of Composition, Yale School of Music Director, New Music Workshop, Norfolk Chamber Music Festival See Profile Lisa Moore Piano, Festival Artist, Norfolk Chamber Music Festival See Profile more information on... How to Apply Toggle Applications are no longer accepted for summer 2022. The Norfolk Chamber Music Festival–Yale Summer School of Music will accept participants on the basis of ability and supporting materials. Applications will be accepted for composers, clarinet, violin, cello, and piano. Session + Application Fee Toggle Application fee: $80 (non-refundable) Registration fee: $300 (refundable) The registration fee is due upon acceptance of the fellowship. The registration fee is refundable after completion of the program subject to deductions in the event of damage or loss to any property, non-compliance with any Festival policies, and successful completion of work-study assignments. Fellowship All participants will receive an Ellen Battell Stoeckel Fellowship covering the full cost of tuition, housing, and meals. Requirement Checklist Toggle All materials must be received by the deadline listed above. A complete application must include: 1. Online application form The application includes sections where you will upload all of your application materials. Applications can be started, and then saved to be continued at a later time. 2. Audition recordings Composers: Audio or video recordings of three works must be uploaded as part of the application. Instrumentalists: Only video recordings are accepted. See Audition Repertoire section for more information on repertoire. 3. Two letters of recommendation On the application, you will provide your recommenders’ email addresses. Each will receive an automatic email with instructions on how to complete their recommendation. Letters must be written after January 1, 2021. 4. Repertoire list Composers: A list of works (including instrumentation) you have written. Please note if the work has been performed, coached, and/or rehearsed. Instrumentalists: A list of works (with composers) you have performed, coached and/or rehearsed. 5. Résumé or CV Résumé or CV should reflect your experience and studies as a composer or instrumentalist. It is helpful to include such information as schools attended, private teachers, performance experiences, music festival experiences, and teaching experiences. 6. Non-refundable $80 application fee Once the online application is submitted, you will be prompted to submit the application fee. In addition to all items above, composers must also submit: 7. Scores of three works Scores must be uploaded as part of the application. Mailed scores will not be accepted. Audition Repertoire Toggle Instrumentalists and composers will audition for the New Music Workshop via recording only. Live auditions will not be held. The works listed below are recommended repertoire. Repertoire should demonstrate variety and flexibility. A recent recital video may be substituted if the program falls roughly within the guidelines listed below. Note about recordings: Files must be uploaded as part of the application. Video uploaded to YouTube will be accepted. Recordings of poor quality will not be evaluated. If you have any questions about repertoire or the technical requirements, please email or call the Norfolk office at 860 542-3000. Composers Upload scores and recordings of three works. Scores submitted by mail will not be returned. Instrumentalists Two 20th/21st century works and one non-20th/21st century work. Whenever possible, performers should include an additional sample of chamber music. Acceptance Toggle Candidates will be notified on or before March 31, 2022, about the status of their application and audition results. A refundable registration fee of $300 must be paid by credit card within 10 days of acceptance to secure one’s position. The fee will be refunded after completion of the program subject to deductions in the event of damage or loss to any property, or non-compliance with any Festival policies. All fees are required upon acceptance of fellowship. Fees must be paid by credit card: Visa, MasterCard, and American Express are accepted. Cash and checks are not accepted. Online Application apply Yale University’s Nondiscrimination/Title IX Statements Toggle The University is committed to basing judgments concerning the admission, education, and employment of individuals upon their qualifications and abilities and affirmatively seeks to attract to its faculty, staff, and student body qualified persons of diverse backgrounds. In accordance with this policy and as delineated by federal and Connecticut law, Yale does not discriminate in admissions, educational programs, or employment against any individual on account of that individual’s sex, race, color, religion, age, disability, status as a veteran, or national or ethnic origin; nor does Yale discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression. University policy is committed to affirmative action under law in employment of women, minority group members, individuals with disabilities, and protected veterans. Inquiries concerning these policies may be referred to Valarie Stanley, Director of the Office of Institutional Equity and Access, 221 Whitney Avenue; 4th Floor, 203 432-0849. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from sex discrimination in educational programs and activities at institutions that receive federal financial assistance. Questions regarding Title IX may be referred to the University’s Title IX Coordinator, Stephanie Spangler, at 203 432-4446 or at titleix@yale.edu, or to the U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 8th Floor, 5 Post Office Square, Boston MA 02109-3921; tel. 617 289-0111, fax 617 289-0150, TDD 800 877-8339, or ocr.boston@ed.gov. Personal Data Toggle Personal data collected by Yale University throughout the admissions process is collected for the primary purposes of considering your candidacy for admission and evaluating your eligibility for financial aid, if applicable. If you are admitted and enroll, your personal data will be used as necessary for registration and to facilitate your education. 2022 Welcome Materials view Engage with YSM Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Tel 860 542-3000 norfolk@yale.edu Music in Schools Initiative musicinschools@yale.edu YSM Box Office concerts@yale.edu Quick Links Alumni Hub Concerts at Norfolk Concerts at YSM Giving at YSM Music in Schools Initiative Follow Us See YSM Directory Buy Concert Tickets General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use