Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Music Department of Music Contact Us Facebook Music@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Back to Top Nav Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP Back to Top Nav News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series Hopkins Center for the Arts Dartmouth News Share Arts Awards 2020 ARTS AWARDS RECIPIENTS EUGENE ROITMAN 1943 MEMORIAL AWARD Eugene Roitman was a member of the Class of '43 and a noted composer of chamber music who played the English horn and oboe in concerts in England, France, Italy and New Zealand. Following his death in 1984, his brother Harold B. Roitman, Class of '35, made a donation to establish a fund to award an undergraduate student or students who show outstanding dedication to music and are deserving of encouragement for further study and advancement in musical performance and/or composition. Summer B. Cody '20 Summer is from Brooklyn, NY. She is a music composition major and Japanese language and culture minor. In addition to singing, Summer plays the piano and composes music for various audiovisual projects and for pleasure. On campus, she is a member of Dartmouth Sings and the Gospel Choir. In her sophomore winter, Summer acted as Musical Director for a youth production of The Music Man in the Marshall Islands. This past winter, Summer had the privilege of participating in Dartmouth Idol, winning second place. After graduation, Summer hopes to continue pursuing music through writing, and potentially attending graduate school. Caitlin N. McGrail '20 Caitlin is from Boston, MA, and is a double major in music and economics. Before Dartmouth, she was a finalist in the New York Lyric Opera National Competition and performed with festivals in Italy. At Dartmouth, she sang with the Glee Club and studies voice under Louis Burkot. As a music major, she completed an honors project that focuses on her performance of Schumann's song cycle Frauenliebe und Leben. Over her sophomore summer, she performed with Opera North, and will be returning this year to sing the Third Spirit in Mozart's The Magic Flute. After graduation, she is moving to Philly and will continue studying voice. Gabriel A. Zuckerberg '20 Gabriel Gabe is a senior from New York, majoring in neuroscience and music. He is the founder of the Dartmouth Klezmer Band, co-founder of Dartmouth Jews for Action, and president of the Student Mindfulness Group. He was twice awarded an Azrieli Scholarship for the international klezmer workshop KlezKanada. Through his research with Professors Laura McPherson, Ted Levin, and Richard Granger, as well as an upcoming collaboration with Dr. Aniruddh Patel at Tufts, Gabe is pursuing the intersections of his fields of study from manifold directions. As a recipient of the Stamps Scholarship, since June 2018 Gabe has been pursuing a preservation project of Romaniote Jewish liturgical chanting and he just completed an honors thesis based on his fieldwork in Greece and NYC. MACDONALD-SMITH PRIZE This prize was first awarded in 1961 and is funded by gifts from the friends of Malcolm R. Macdonald and Philip D. Smith, both of the Class of 1915, to be awarded to recognize high achievement in musical performances, on the recommendation of the faculty of the Department of Music. Isabelle S. Brick '20 Isabelle is from Rochester, NY, majoring in music and biology. She is a part of the Glee Club, Subtleties a cappella, and Dartmouth Opera Lab, along with studying voice with Erma Mellinger for four years. She has held numerous leadership positions, most recently including president of the Subtleties and vice president of the Glee Club. Additionally, she volunteers through the Patient Support Corps program at DHMC. Next year, she will be working at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston as a clinical research coordinator! Betty J. Kim '20 Betty is a senior from Diamond Bar, CA. She is graduating with a major in English and a minor in music. She played violin in the Dartmouth Symphony Orchestra for four years, serving on-and-off as concertmaster since 2017. She also studied violin privately with Marcia Cassidy, played violin and viola in various chamber groups, and played fiddle in the Dartmouth Klezmer Band. Betty was the Best Overall winner of the Culley Concerto Competition in 2019. She also worked as a TA in the music department, a student manager at Paddock, and an assistant at the Ceramics Studio. Outside of the Hop, she has written and edited for various literary publications. After leaving Dartmouth, she hopes to pursue graduate studies in creative writing and English literature. Haocheng Yang '21 Haocheng is majoring in philosophy and minoring in music. He used to be a student interested in STEM in his high school in China but gains a stronger and stronger interest in the humanities after coming to Dartmouth. One question that keeps coming back to his mind is the explanation for the mysterious and infecting power of art: when we listen to Mozart, where does the pleasure come from? Haocheng is also a pianist who has been learning piano since he was six years old. With the help from Professor Sally Pinkas, he won a third prize in the Tracy Piano Competition that was held last year. Besides art and philosophy, Haocheng is also a huge fan of mindfulness meditation. ERICH KUNZEL CLASS OF 1957 AWARD This fund was established by the Class of 1957 in honor of their classmate, Erich Kunzel. Erich was an enthusiastic supporter of music students at Dartmouth. The fund in his name supports student opportunities in the Music Department, including student musical performances both on- and off-campus, undergraduate musical research and travel grants to pursue off-campus projects. Ida Z. Claude '22 Ida is from Chicago, IL. She is a violinist in the Dartmouth Symphony Orchestra and also a student manager for the ensemble. Ida is majoring in music modified with medieval and renaissance Studies and enjoys taking classes in a variety of departments at Dartmouth. On campus, Ida plays in a string quartet, works at the Paddock Music Library desk, serves on the Inter-Sorority Council, and is a tutor for Health Access for All. She also experimented with harpsichord lessons last term! Ida is very passionate about arts management and accessibility, and in her free time loves to bake, dance, and spend time outdoors. Jacob L. Donoghue '22 Jacob is from Washington, D.C., pursuing a double-major in government and computer science. At Dartmouth, Jacob is involved in the arts through the Dartmouth Aires, taking voice lessons with Erma Mellinger, and independent study of classical piano. Funded in part by the Music Department's Erich Kunzel Class of 1957 Award, Jacob spent his winter music directing a musical and teaching with the nonprofit YouthBridge Global, founded and led by Dartmouth Professor Emeritus Andrew Garrod, in Majuro, the capital of the Marshall Islands. Jacob is immensely grateful to the music department for their assistance in pursuing this opportunity and hopes to stay involved when he returns to campus! David Lucas James '21 Lucas is from Grand Rapids, MI. He is a linguistics student with an interest in the connections between language and music, the current focus of his research and upcoming senior thesis. As a trombone player in the Coast Jazz Orchestra and a Hopkins Center Ensemble Fellow, he is passionate about Dartmouth's student ensembles. While on campus, he's often found in backstage in Spaulding or the Moore, where he frequently works as a production assistant. He is spending his time away from campus studying, baking, and learning the clarinet. Visit the Hop website for a full list of 2020 arts awardees. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Music Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback