Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu Admissions Financial Aid learn more contact us Close The Yale School of Music provides deserving students with a rich musical education. Thanks to an extremely generous gift from Stephen and Denise Adams (YC ’59) in 2005, the School can now fully realize that goal. All students admitted to the School receive a full tuition award and fellowship, with the exception of those who have earned awards from other agencies. This page has information about obtaining federal loans for living expenses and fees, the various jobs available to students through student employment, and other grants for which students can apply. Please contact the Office of Student Services with any questions. Financial Aid Information Financial Aid for U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents FAFSA Toggle To apply for a federal student loan or federal work study, students must complete the FAFSA (Free Application for Federal Student Aid). Yale School Code: 001426 After receiving the information requested above, the Financial Aid office is able to determine how much a student is eligible to borrow and how to proceed. For more information on federal loan options available to U.S. citizens or permanent residents, visit finaid.yale.edu/graduate-aid/loans. Financial Aid for International Students learn more Toggle Students coming from countries which have currency restrictions should make necessary arrangements before arriving so that they will have access to funds to be used for living expenses. Also, before an I-20 will be issued, students must give appropriate evidence of support. If you are being supported by a foreign government or agency, you must have a signed statement attesting to the level and time period of your support. Unfortunately, there are no federal loans available to international students. Student Employment yale student employment ysm student jobs Toggle There are many jobs available to students on- and off-campus, in teaching, operations, and administration. Gainful Employment Disclosure Toggle The U.S. Department of Education requires colleges to disclose a variety of information for any financial aid eligible program that “prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation”. At the School of Music, the Certificate in Performance program is subject to this regulation. The information provided here describes the graduation rates, the median debt of students who completed the program, and other important information regarding gainful employment. Cost How much will the Certificate in Performance program cost me? Tuition and fees: $102,000 Books and supplies: $5,580 On-campus room & board: $36,000 What other costs are there for this program? Health Insurance: $7,350 *The amounts shown above include costs for the entire program, assuming normal time to completion. Note that this information is subject to change. How much will the Artist Diploma program cost me? Internal – one year Tuition and fees: $34,000 Books and supplies: $750 On-campus room & board: $12,000 What other costs are there for this program? Health Insurance: $2,450 External- two years Tuition and fees: $68,000 Books and supplies: $1,500 On-campus room & board: $24,000 What other costs are there for this program? Health Insurance: $4,900 Financing What financing options are available to help me pay for this program? Financing for this program may be available through grants, scholarships, loans (federal and private) and institutional financing plans. The median amount of debt for program graduates is shown below: Federal loans: * Private education loans: * Institutional financing plan: * *There were fewer than 10 graduates in this program. Median amounts are withheld to preserve the confidentiality of graduates. Success How long will it take me to complete the Certificate in Performance program? The program is designed to take 3 years to complete. Of those that completed the program in 2018-2019, *% finished in 3 years. *Fewer than 10 students completed this program in 2018-2019. The number who finished within the normal time has been withheld to preserve the confidentiality of the students. How long will it take me to complete the Artist Diploma program? The program is designed to take 1 year to complete for internal students. Of those that completed the program in 2018-2019, *% finished in 1 year. *Fewer than 10 students completed this program in 2018-2019. The number who finished within the normal time has been withheld to preserve the confidentiality of the students. The program is designed to take 2 years to complete for external students. Of those that completed the program in 2018-2019, *% finished in 2 years. *Fewer than 10 students completed this program in 2019-2020. The number who finished within the normal time has been withheld to preserve the confidentiality of the students. Billing, Account Statements + Refunds yale sis Toggle Billing + Account Statements Yale University uses an electronic billing and payment system. You will be notified when your e-bill is ready through your Yale email account. You may also access your e-bill through the Yale Student Information System (SIS). It is the student’s responsibility to monitor and review their monthly account statements. Tuition and fees for the fall term are billed on or about July 1 and payment is due the first business day of August. Likewise, the spring term is billed on November 1 and payment is due the first business day of December. A late fee of $125 per month is assessed if the balance due is not paid in full by the due date. Late fees are assessed on the August, September, and October statements for the fall charges and December, January, and February for the spring term charges. Financial aid (scholarship + loans) will appear on the account statements as anticipated credits, provided your signed financial aid form is received by the due date. It could be your financial aid is enough to cover your balance due and you will not have a payment due for the August due date. Financial aid is split evenly between the fall and spring term. Refunds of Credit Balances If your financial aid exceeds your balance due and a credit balance is created, you may request a refund of the credit balance to use for your living expenses. You must request the refund through the SIS website by clicking “Student Accounts” and then “Refund Request from Student Account”. Refunds are disbursed in one of two forms: check or electronic funds transfer. Note that if you request a check, there is a 3-day waiting period before a check can be issued. The quickest and way to receive your refund is through Electronic Funds Transfer/Direct Deposit. You should sign up for Direct Deposit on the SIS website by filling out the form and providing your bank information (checking account number and routing number). Then, request your refund from the Student Accounts section. The refund will be processed within 48 hours. Please be aware that even though you can request your refund at any point after your netID is activated, the refund will not be processed until the first day of classes. Veterans Benefits Toggle The Registrar is the VA School Certifying Official for School of Music. If you are eligible for educational benefits under any of the chapters of the GI Bill®, please provide your Certificate of Eligibility from the VA and a copy of your DD214, and which chapter you are requesting benefits. For more information regarding VA education benefits, or for questions specific to your eligibility, please visit the U.S. Department of Veteran’s Affairs. For information about Yale University’s participation in the VA program, please visit the University’s Financial Aid website. Belding Fund Guidelines apply now Toggle The Belding Fund provides some financial assistance to current YSM students who travel for professional engagements, including performances, auditions, and competitions. Student Relief Fund Guidelines more info Toggle The Student Relief Fund is designed to provide support to students who are experiencing temporary financial hardship caused by emergency situations. Eligibility guidelines and details, as well as the application link, can be found on ArtsVision. Applications for the 2021-2022 academic year will open on September 1, 2021. Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Toggle YSM-HBCU Partnership The goal of this partnership is to encourage students at Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) to consider applying to the Yale School of Music (YSM) for graduate school, as well as applying to the Norfolk Chamber Music Festival/Yale Summer School of Music. This partnership arises from an effort to create a more welcoming, nourishing, and equitable environment for students and a more inclusive and diverse student body overall. As part of this partnership, the Yale School of Music will waive the $150 application fee for students who are recommended by HBCU faculty. Partnering institutions are asked to send a list of recommended students to YSM Director of Admissions by Nov. 1. There is no limit to the number of students HBCU faculty can recommend. If students or representatives of HBCU's would like further information, please contact gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Study at YSM Tel 203 432-4155 gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu Mailing Address Yale School of Music PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 FedEx, UPS, or DHL Yale School of Music 98 Wall Street New Haven, CT 06511 Reminders Online application opens on September 15 Applications due on December 1 Live auditions (invite only) mid- to late-February Final decision deadline April 15 Quick Links How to Apply Student Groups + Culture Admissions FAQs Follow Us See YSM Directory How to Apply General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use