Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Music Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events Search Department of Music Music & Multimedia Composition Breadcrumb Home Graduate Graduate Programs Sub Navigation In This Section Music & Multimedia Composition Handbook Musicology & Ethnomusicology Music & Multimedia Composition Students in the Ph.D. program in Music and Multimedia Composition produce, analyze, and perform original works that may include the use of electronic music, acoustic composition and sound in combination with video, performance, installation and text. Pulsations Bitlumen Marcel Zaes Students conduct advanced inquiry into the cultural, theoretical, technical, and aesthetic issues surrounding music and multimedia production in close collaboration with faculty researchers strongly invested in real-time, interactive sonic and visual media, sound art, instrument design, and acoustic composition. The program welcomes students working from diverse influences and methods, expanding their creative practices and underlying technical knowledge to spur artistic innovation. In addition to faculty mentorship, students can collaborate with a broad array of professional performing ensembles and visiting artists presented on the Brown University campus. Diverse Resources The graduate program in Music and Multimedia Composition offers an array of resources unique to Brown. Students have access to the department’s Multimedia and Electronic Music Experiments (MEME) studios, and the university’s Granoff Center for the Creative Arts. These specialized research facilities house recording studios, electronics shops, project studios, exhibition and performance spaces. Regular opportunities exist to interface with the larger arts and digital media communities at Brown, at the nearby Rhode Island School of Design, in Providence and the New England region. Music and Multimedia Composition students also partake in the many scholarly offerings of the Musicology and Ethnomusicology PhD program, with faculty specialties in technoculture, sound studies, copyright, improvisation and organology. A Brown doctoral degree in Music and Multimedia Composition leads to a career in college and university teaching, or to a position to applied work outside of higher education. Funding All PhD students receive full funding for 5 years, including costs for tuition and health insurance, plus stipends for fellowships and teaching assistantships. Contact Ed Osborn Associate Professor of Visual Art and Music, Director of Graduate Studies, Music & Multimedia Composition Ed_Osborn@brown.edu List Art Center 521 Apply Apply to the Music & Multimedia Composition program through the Brown University Graduate School website. Apply Apply Exams, Dissertations and Other Scholarly Work Nicole Carroll and her instrument, the Orrery Arcana During the first two years of the program students undertake the majority of their coursework, which involves writing and research in addition to creative practice. During this time they prepare their Masters project (a substantial performance, installation, or work in other formats) for presentation in the second year accompanied by an essay of thirty to fifty pages that describes the aesthetic concepts, historical background, and technical realization of the work. In the third year students continue their coursework and must prepare for and pass their Qualifying Exams. This consists of three essays on topics that lead into their dissertation work and an oral exam on these essays. Once this is complete students develop a formal dissertation proposal in which serves as a clear and detailed outline of the areas of creative and scholarly research to be undertaken over the next two years. The dissertation itself has two parts. The dissertation project is an original creative work that makes a substantial contribution to knowledge in the field. This is accompanied by a detailed paper that describes the project’s overall concept, technical methods, and the historical, theoretical, and artistic frameworks that inform and support it. The paper is completed after the dissertation project has taken place and requires a formal oral presentation and defense before it is approved. See the MMC Graduate Handbook for specific details on these requirements. Faculty Anthony Cheung Associate Professor of Music Anthony_Cheung@brown.edu Wang Lu Associate Professor of Music Lu_Wang1@brown.edu Enongo Lumumba-Kasongo David S. Josephson Assistant Professor of Music Enongo_Lumumba-Kasongo@brown.edu James Moses Lecturer and Technical Director James_Moses@brown.edu Eric Nathan Associate Professor of Music Eric_Nathan@brown.edu Ed Osborn Associate Professor of Visual Art and Music, Director of Graduate Studies, Music & Multimedia Composition Ed_Osborn@brown.edu Joseph Butch Rovan Professor of Music joseph_rovan@brown.edu Todd Winkler Professor of Music Todd_Winkler@brown.edu Affiliated Faculty Resources Orwig Music Library Brown Multimedia Labs Brown Arts Institute Granoff Center Community Resources AS220 Community MusicWorks Machines With Magnets Verdant Vibes Additional Information Music and Multimedia Composition Program Graduate program application information and requirements, Handbook The Music and Multimedia Composition (MMC) Graduate Handbook is intended to help guide new and continuing students through their graduate studies in the MMC program at Brown. Graduate Courses Explore the diverse range of Graduate courses for Spring 2022. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Music & Multimedia Composition Open details for Music & Multimedia Composition Bookmark this Page