Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Music Department of Music Contact Us Facebook Music@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Back to Top Nav Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP Back to Top Nav News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Hopkins Center Hopes to Lift Up Music From Mexico A symposium this week will include the launch of the Mexican Repertoire Initiative. William Cheng Named a Radcliffe Fellow The professor of music will spend a year in residence at Harvard's Radcliffe Institute. Kudos: Swayne Is In Residence at the Library of Congress Dartmouth faculty, students, and staff are recognized for their achievements. Cooking Up a Concert—With Rice Digital Musics master's candidate converts rice cookers into synthesizers. Breaths as Music: Prof. Beaudoin Publishes New Article in JAMS "All sounds deserve recognition," contends Prof. Beaudoin in his study of interactions between melody and audible breath in Dashon Burton's "He Never Said a Mumberlin' Word." Three Faculty Members Win 2022 Guggenheim Fellowships César Alvarez, Brendan Nyhan, and Amie Thomasson are among 180 award recipients. Tanaka Chikati '25 Featured on Google Arts and Culture The music major wants to support other aspiring artists in Zimbabwe. 'Exhilarating' New Music Festival Opens at the Hop An eclectic roster features graduate students as well as highly acclaimed guests. Prof. Swayne Appointed 2022 LOC Kluge Chair in Modern Culture According to the John W. Kluge Center at the Library of Congress, the chairship is "occupied by scholars of great accomplishment chosen for their intellectual and communicative abilities." Epilepsy and the "Mozart Effect": Prof. Casey Publishes New Article in ISR Journal "Eliciting neural mechanisms of music medicine for epilepsy," co-authored with Robert Quon and Barbara C. Jobst, furthers the exciting field of research on music-based interventions for epilepsy and other brain disorders. Recent Publications view all "Dashon Burton's Song Sermon: Corporeal Liveness and the Solemnizing Breath" Richard Beaudoin Journal of the Society for American Music Vol. 16, No. 1 (2022) For the Culture: Hip-Hop and the Fight for Social Justice Lakeyta M. Bonnette-Bailey, Adolphus G. Belk, Jr., editors University of Michigan Press (2022) "Eliciting neural mechanisms of music medicine for epilepsy" Michael A. Casey, Robert Quon, Barbara C. Jobst Interdisciplinary Science Reviews Vol. 47, No. 1 (2022) "Plainly Audible: Listening Intersectionally to the Amplified Noise Act in Washington, DC" Allie Martin Journal of Popular Music Studies Vol. 3, No. 4 (2021) Events view all Jun 01 12:00AM Spring term classes end. Not applicable Undergraduate Academic Calendar Jun 02 12:00AM Pre-Examination Break. Not applicable Undergraduate Academic Calendar Jun 02 3:00PM Junior Recital: Julia Battle '23, soprano Faulkner Recital Hall, Hopkins Center for the Arts With Henry Danaher, piano, and Marisa Natarajan, mezzo-soprano. Presenting works by Mozart, Donaudy, Faure, Vivaldi, and Schubert. Jun 02 6:00PM Senior Recital: Sam Locke '22, piano and voice Faulkner Recital Hall, Hopkins Center for the Arts The graduating senior presents a solo concert. Jun 03 12:00AM Final examinations begin. Not applicable Undergraduate Academic Calendar Jun 03 3:00PM Senior Recital: Kaj Johnson '22, bass Faulkner Recital Hall, Hopkins Center for the Arts The graduating vocalist presents a culminating recital. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Music Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback