Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Music Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events Search Department of Music Handbook Breadcrumb Home Graduate Graduate Programs Musicology & Ethnomusicology Sub Navigation In This Section Handbook Handbook This Handbook is intended to help guide new and continuing students through their graduate studies in musicology and ethnomusicology at Brown. The Handbook contains a mixture of rules, regulations, rationales, and advice. As our liaison with the Graduate School, she is here to assist students in all administrative matters having to do with regulations, forms, and deadlines (including but not limited to leaves of absence, 6th-year funding requests, support assignment forms, course registration problems, and transfer credit). Additionally, each graduate student should meet regularly with his/her academic advisor and the Director of Graduate Study to discuss goals, course planning, and progress. Please alert the DGS if you encounter any broken links in this document. Musicology & Ethnomusicology Graduate Handbook Exams, Dissertations and Other Scholarly Work The first two years of study will be focused on predoctoral coursework and the acquisition of an M.A., the centerpiece of which is an extended paper completed in year 2. Students must complete 8 course credits, 3 required and 5 elective. During the third year of study students continue to do coursework, at least three credits per semester. They prepare for and take their oral and written Ph.D. qualifying exams, and begin developing their dissertation proposal. The fourth and fifth years of study center around the dissertation. The dissertation must be an original work and make a contribution to knowledge in the discipline of musicology or ethnomusicology. Many students spend their fourth year doing library research or field work, and devote their fifth year primarily to writing and revising. See the M/E Graduate Handbook for full details on this process. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Handbook Open details for Handbook Bookmark this Page