Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu Concerts at YSM Concert Series buy tickets livestream Close YSM’s concert series bring accomplished artists from around the world to New Haven. Series also feature School of Music faculty and students in solo, chamber, and large ensemble performances. Learn more below about the School’s concert series. Upcoming Events Norfolk Festival Music Shed Jul 1, 7:30PM Norfolk New Music Recital New Music Workshop Details Norfolk Festival Music Shed Jul 6, 7:30PM Musical Bridges Norfolk Special Events Details Norfolk Festival Music Shed Jul 7, 7:30PM Emerging Artist Series Emerging Artist Showcase Details Norfolk Festival Music Shed Jul 8, 8:00PM Belated Beethoven Birthday Friday Concerts Tickets Norfolk Festival Music Shed Jul 9, 10:30AM Emerging Artist Series Emerging Artist Showcase Details Norfolk Festival Music Shed Jul 9, 8:00PM Brentano Quartet Saturday Concerts Tickets Norfolk Festival Music Shed Jul 14, 7:30PM Emerging Artist Series Emerging Artist Showcase Details Norfolk Festival Music Shed Jul 15, 8:00PM Unquestionably American Friday Concerts Tickets Norfolk Festival Music Shed Jul 16, 10:30AM Emerging Artist Series Emerging Artist Showcase Details Norfolk Festival Music Shed Jul 16, 8:00PM Brentano & Upshaw Saturday Concerts Tickets Norfolk Festival Music Shed Jul 21, 7:30PM Emerging Artist Series Emerging Artist Showcase Details Norfolk Festival Music Shed Jul 22, 8:00PM Women Through the Ages Friday Concerts Tickets see all upcoming events concert series The Duke Ellington Fellowship Series Toggle The Duke Ellington Fellowship series, led by Artistic Director Thomas C. Duffy, presents concerts by legendary and emerging artists. Over the course of the series’ 40-year history, Yale has hosted such iconic performers as Dizzy Gillespie, Charles Mingus, and Dave Brubeck, to name a few. Faculty Artist Series Toggle The Faculty Artist Series presents the Yale School of Music’s faculty artists in solo and chamber performances in Morse Recital Hall. The series’ creative programming sometimes highlights a theme, focuses on a specific time period, or illuminates the works of a featured composer. Faculty members often collaborate with students, alumni, and guest artists. The Faculty Artist Series is free and open to the public. Horowitz Piano Series Toggle The Horowitz Piano Series, under the artistic direction of YSM Professor in the Practice of Piano Boris Berman, brings many of the world’s greatest keyboard artists to Yale and showcases the talents of the School’s faculty pianists. The series is named in honor of the legendary pianist Vladimir Horowitz, who left his papers to Yale upon his death in 1989. Performances in the series take place in Morse Recital Hall. Subscriptions to the Horowitz Piano Series are available. New Music New Haven Toggle The New Music New Haven concert series, directed by faculty composer Aaron Jay Kernis, showcases new works by YSM student composers performed by their peers and guest artists. Concerts take place in Morse Recital Hall and Woolsey Hall. The works performed in Morse Recital Hall range from solo pieces to works for large chamber groups, while performances in Woolsey Hall, specifically the annual New Music for Orchestra concert, showcase works for full orchestra featuring the Yale Philharmonia. New Music New Haven events are known to include electronic musical or visual elements. Most concerts in the series also feature music by a faculty or guest composer, performed by student or guest artists. Recent guest composers have included Thomas Newman ’78MM and Jane Ira Bloom ’77MM. Oneppo Chamber Music Series Toggle The Oneppo Chamber Music Series, under the artistic direction of YSM faculty clarinetist David Shifrin, presents many of the world’s leading chamber groups in performance in Morse Recital Hall. Concerts on the Oneppo Series feature a variety of musical styles and genres, from the traditional to the avant-garde. Chamber music has always been an integral part of the Yale School of Music experience. Elizabeth Sprague Coolidge, who is widely considered to be the godmother of chamber music in America, gave Yale a gift with which to build a concert hall named after her father, Albert Arnold Sprague, in 1917. The Oneppo Chamber Music Series was renamed in 2011 in honor of Vincent Oneppo ’74MM, who directed Yale’s chamber music series for many years. Subscriptions to the Oneppo Chamber Music Series are available. Yale in New York Toggle The Yale in New York series celebrates the exciting collaborations that make up the heart and history of the Yale School of Music. Under the artistic direction of YSM faculty clarinetist David Shifrin, the series presents concerts featuring School of Music faculty, alumni, and student performers in Yale's Morse Recital Hall and the Weill Recital Hall at Carnegie Hall in New York City. The series often focuses on a creative theme, such as the tradition of the concertante repertoire or the classical legacy of Benny Goodman. Several past programs have explored Yale’s own musical history, including the music of Paul Hindemith (a faculty member from 1940–1953) and voices recorded by the Oral History of American Music project. Yale Opera Toggle Each year, Yale Opera presents productions under the artistic direction of YSM Professor in the Practice of Voice Gerald Martin Moore. In the fall, the Opera Scenes productions in Morse Recital Hall are chosen from a selection of operas in a wide variety of languages, ranging from Baroque to contemporary. In the winter, Yale Opera produces either an opera or an orchestral gala concert with the Yale Philharmonia. In years that galas are presented, the program presents two opera productions, in early and late spring, with chamber ensemble or collaborative piano. Yale Philharmonia Toggle The largest performing group at the Yale School of Music, the Yale Philharmonia offers training in orchestral playing and repertoire, with a rigorous rehearsal schedule similar to that of a professional orchestra. Under the direction of Principal Conductor Peter Oundjian and guest conductors, the Yale Philharmonia performs symphonic repertoire, concertos, new music by composition students from the School of Music, and choral works in collaboration with Yale's vocal ensembles. Notable guest conductors that have worked with the Yale Philharmonia include Krzysztof Penderecki, William Christie, Marin Alsop, and James Conlon. Throughout the year, the Yale Philharmonia’s New Haven performances take place in Woolsey Hall, Morse Recital Hall, and the Shubert Theatre. The orchestra has also toured throughout the United States and Asia. YSM Ensembles Toggle Beyond their performances with the Yale Philharmonia, Yale Opera, and New Music New Haven, students at the Yale School of Music also give solo and chamber concerts. There are more than 100 student recitals each year, all of which are free and open to the public. Concert series including Lunchtime Chamber Music, Guitar Chamber Music, and the Vista series feature School of Music students performing chamber music, and some studio chamber ensembles, including the Yale Cellos and the Yale Percussion Group, present annual concerts. Some YSM students also perform in such choral groups as the Yale Schola Cantorum through the Institute of Sacred Music. The Yale Choral Artists, a professional project-based choir directed by YSM Professor Choral Conducting Jeffery Douma, performs frequently in New Haven. The choir was founded by the Yale School of Music and the Yale Glee Club to enhance and enrich Yale’s commitment to the choral arts. Engage with YSM Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Tel 860 542-3000 norfolk@yale.edu Music in Schools Initiative musicinschools@yale.edu YSM Box Office concerts@yale.edu Quick Links Alumni Hub Concerts at Norfolk Concerts at YSM Giving at YSM Music in Schools Initiative Follow Us See YSM Directory Buy Concert Tickets General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use