Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | College of Music Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU College of Music Toggle navigation Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Home Programs Opera Florida State Opera Welcome to the Florida State Opera! If you're an opera fan, we urge you to join us for a wonderful season of fun, laughter and high spirits. If you're new to opera, this is the perfect time to open your ears, your eyes. Come discover what all the singing is about! The Florida State Opera presents fully staged operatic productions each term, featuring student talent in principal roles, chorus, orchestra, and technical support staff. Opera students also benefit from working with regularly featured nationally and internationally prominent guest-artist designers, conductors, and directors. The Opera Workshop trains students in all aspects of operatic performance techniques, including acting and movement and their application to scene excerpts and role preparation. Opera Workshop Scenes are regularly presented in public performances. Chamber opera productions under the musical and dramatic direction of faculty or student opera majors also provide performance opportunities. Opera Production Florida State Opera at The Florida State University College of Music is dedicated to serving the professionally oriented student, the musical and scholastic life of the University, and the cultural vitality of the immediate geographic area. Its primary aim is to identify and unlock the potential of the student singer, coach/accompanist and stage director, equipping him or her with a secure technical foundation in all areas vital to the development of a successful and fulfilling professional life in opera/music-theater: drama and movement, musical styles and diction, range of repertoire, production methods, stage experience, career orientation and promotion. Additionally Florida State Opera aims to instill a love and respect for other music theater forms and their component parts and for the artists and craftspersons who practice them, to inspire a strong sense of the artist's role in the community and to emphasize the values of self-motivation and strong artistic goals. Florida State Opera stresses the importance of its visibility as a performance resource not only to the University, but also to the Greater Tallahassee community and beyond. As such it is the particular mission of the Opera to explore the scope and variety of the vast body of work comprising the repertory and, in so doing, to create and provide stimulating and vital productions; professional in quality, strong in musical and theatrical values and rich in imagination. Florida State Opera seeks, in addition, to provide that community with performances and other activities designed to foster interest in opera and related music-theater forms; developing new audiences, stimulating the current opera-going public and introducing school-aged children to its myriad rewards. Current Season Learn More History of Florida State Opera Learn More Set Rentals Learn More × Opera Current Season Please call 645-7949 for ticket information. Close Legacy Sort 1 Legacy Priority 8 FSU College of Music 122 N. Copeland St Tallahassee, FL 32306 Main Office: 850-644-3424 Admissions: 850-644-6102 Box Office: 850-644-6500 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Visit on social media @musicFSU © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media