Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Music Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events Search Department of Music Department of Music The Department of Music is a community of scholars, creators, and performers dedicated to exploring music’s past, present, and future. Department of Music The Department of Music is a community of scholars, creators, and performers dedicated to exploring music’s past, present, and future. Through multiple modes of inquiry and experience, the department advances new ways of understanding music as both creative expression and cultural practice throughout the world. The department promotes musical education, research, and engagement at the highest standards of excellence on an open and inclusive basis. About The Department of Music is a community of scholars, creators, and performers dedicated to exploring music’s past, present, and future. Visit Page Academics Undergraduate Our diverse curriculum combines creative courses in composition, technology, and performance with speculative studies in history, theory, ethnomusicology, philosophy, and musical aesthetics. Learn about the music concentration Explore our current course offerings Graduate At Brown, your degree is what you make it: the more adventurous you are, the more exciting your program is likely to be. Learn about our Graduate Programs Explore our Current courses Music Making The Department of Music at Brown offers a huge array of performing opportunities, all available for academic credit. Ensembles Students may choose to join one of the department's many performing groups Visit Page Open details for Ensembles Individual Lessons Students seeking to improve their playing or singing ability have the option of taking individual private lessons with about thirty professional musicians from the greater Boston-Providence area. Visit Page Open details for Individual Lessons Recent News See all news News from the Department of Music Martim Galvão (PhD '22) Hired as Assistant Professor in Music Technology in the California State University, San Bernardino May 17, 2022 Read Article Open details for Martim Galvão (PhD &#039;22) Hired as Assistant Professor in Music Technology in the California State University, San Bernardino Brown Daily Herald Professor Ivan Tan discusses how cover music of Booker T. and the MG’s reimagined the Beatles April 4, 2022 Visiting Lecturer in Music Ivan Tan discussed the relatively unknown cover of the Beatles’ “Abbey Road” by instrumental band Booker T. and the MG’s in a talk presented by the Department of Music at the Orwig Music Hall Monday. Titled “McLemore Avenue,” the album sought to tinker with the Beatles’ innovative style, bringing new flavors of blues and R&B to the music that defined a generation. Read Article Open details for Professor Ivan Tan discusses how cover music of Booker T. and the MG’s reimagined the Beatles News from the Department of Music Luis Achondo PhD '21 Receives Three-Year Postdoctoral Appointment; Article Published in Soccer & Society March 25, 2022 Luis Achondo receives appointment as Fondecyt Postdoctoral Fellow at Pontificia Universidad Católica. Also, an article by Achondo was recently published in the journal Soccer & Society. Read Article Open details for Luis Achondo PhD &#039;21 Receives Three-Year Postdoctoral Appointment; Article Published in Soccer &amp; Society Upcoming Performances and Lectures Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Department of Music Open details for Department of Music Bookmark this Page