Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Music Department of Music Contact Us Facebook Music@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Back to Top Nav Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP Back to Top Nav News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Tanaka Chikati '25 Featured on Google Arts and Culture Posted on April 07, 2022 by Aimee Minbiole News subtitle The music major wants to support other aspiring artists in Zimbabwe. Image Image Tanaka Chikati ’25 holds the mbira she played in a video on the Google Arts and Culture website. (Photo by Eli Burakian ’00) Body As a member of school music ensembles while growing up in Zimbabwe, Tanaka Chikati ’25 took the stage at the Harare International Festival of the Arts, won awards in national competitions, and performed during academic ceremonies. Now, solo recordings by the first-year music major are being featured in a multimedia show on Google Arts and Culture that represents work by 30 African women artists. “Redefining Womanhood” was created through a collaboration whose partners include AL for the Arts, a network founded by the African Leadership Academy (ALA) to further the development of creative arts industries on the continent. Assistant Professor of Music César Alvarez calls Chikati “a tremendously talented, curious, joyful, and expansive musician,” and says it’s lovely to see her being recognized. “Tanaka brings a deep well of musical experience from her study of mbira and marimba, and from years working within the rich musical traditions of Zimbabwe,” Alvarez says. “She has already made waves in the music department, with her contributions to the Coast Jazz Ensemble, her songwriting, and other musical collaborations. ... I can’t wait to see what she’s able to accomplish during her time at Dartmouth.” ‘I Still Can’t Believe It’ Chikati, an ALA graduate, made the videos for the show with help from a team that included her parents, Cecilia and Poncio Chikati. Working at home in Harare, they recorded her playing the baritone marimba. Another recording, made in Johannesburg, shows Chikati singing and playing the mbira nyunga nyunga, a Zimbabwean lamellophone, or thumb piano. In a conversation last month at the Hopkins Center for the Arts, Chikati recalled seeing the videos online for the first time. “Oh my gosh, you can find me on Google,” she remembers thinking, and breaks into a laugh. “I still can’t believe it.” She has also been exploring new territory at Dartmouth. As a member of the Coast Jazz Ensemble, she’s playing another type of marimba, using different mallets and technique, and learning to improvise. In “Sonic Arts I: Machine Music,” with Associate Professor of Music Ash Fure, she explored making music on a laptop, using a digital audio workspace. And, in Alvarez’s “Songwriting I,” she tried her hand at writing music and lyrics. “I love the music department here,” says Chikati, noting the diverse course offerings and supportive professors, including Alvarez. “One thing I love about César is that they always emphasize that you are not going to write a fantastic song your first 100 tries,” she says. “It takes a lot of effort to get that song, and it’s OK if it doesn’t sound great. Just give whatever you have to give.” Sharing the Gift of Music Chikati’s earliest memory of music is singing in her church choir, which her brother sometimes conducted. In primary school, she was drawn to the marimba and to the mbira, she says, for its calming tones, which she likens to water dripping in a far-off cave. She was captain of her school’s marimba team, and later played and performed as a student at ALA. In the future, she plans to continue sharing the healing gift of music with others, and to help ensure that other young Zimbabwean artists receive the kind of encouragement and support she has had, from her parents and teachers. Often, students learn an instrument in primary school, but then veer away from it, due to a lack of resources or direction, she says. “There’s a lot that you can do with music. The problem is we wonder, ‘What am I going to do with this instrument? What am I going to do with this talent?’” To counter that trend, Chikati wants to establish a school for African students who are gifted in the arts. If her summer goes as planned, Chikati will begin studying traditional dance, which is integral to performing on the mbira, she says. She also hopes to intern with a virtual camp for Zimbabwean children and the related Mushandirapamwe Arts Trust, to help shape her vision for the school she aims to build. Looking further ahead, Chikati imagines entering national politics, where she could work to advance the arts infrastructure in Zimbabwe, providing much needed employment in the country, she says. Having just traveled to New York City to see several musicals, she offers Broadway as an example. “You have your actors, but you also have the behind-the-scenes work—hair, makeup, wardrobe, costume design, set design—all those jobs for so many people,” says Chikati, a member of East Wheelock House. “I see the big picture. It’s such a rich industry to be tapped into.” Remote video URL Tanaka plays three traditional songs on the nyunganyunga mbira in this performance. (Video by Cecilia Chikati) Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Music Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback