Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | College of Music Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU College of Music Toggle navigation Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Home Programs Performance Keyboard Keyboard HEIDI LOUISE WILLIAMS - Coordinator of Keyboard Studies Our success is demonstrated by our many graduates employed by professional ensembles and universities. In the Piano program, our goal is to help students find and achieve their potential at and through the piano. The mentoring process is focused around weekly private lessons; you will also have weekly studio classes, monthly piano area concerts, duo piano lessons, chamber music coachings, lessons in accompanying both singers and instrumentalists, classes in piano literature and pedagogy, and master-classes with visiting artists. The area also holds two concerto competitions each year. We have over 240 pianos, with an exciting variety of performance instruments that includes a Fazioli and a Blüthner as well as Steinways from both New York and Hamburg in our 5 performance halls. The Organ studio offers support to students as they plan future careers in sacred music and concert work. We are very fortunate to have a significant number of teaching and practice organs available both on campus and in nearby churches. While lessons primarily take place on the Holtkamp (3 manual) organ in Opperman Music Hall, we also use the Casavant (3 manual) at Trinity United Methodist Church, the Taylor and Boody (2 manual) at First Presbyterian and the Fisk (2 manual) at St. John's Episcopal Church. We also have three practice organs on campus in addition to continuo organs and a regal. The graduate program in Accompanying is committed to the training of pianists as collaborators in both vocal and instrumental repertoire. Pianists receive complete and concentrated instruction in recital and chamber music performance, as well as opera and song coaching. Strong attention is placed on the comprehension of languages and a thorough knowledge of foreign language diction. Additionally students may choose the opportunity to study opera coaching and develop the skills necessary to succeed in that field. Most graduates have gone on to work either in academia or in the professional field, including Virginia Opera, Arizona Opera, Shreveport Opera, Des Moines Metro Opera, and Florida Grand Opera. The Piano Pedagogy program is committed to developing the piano educator of the future. With its diverse thrust that emphasizes piano pedagogy, piano education research and piano performance, FSU is among the elite programs in the U.S. With an excellent job placement record, nearly 100% of our graduates are piano professionals who serve in varied musical environments. The specialized course offerings in piano pedagogy provide opportunities for individualized as well as in-depth study with nationally and internationally recognized faculty. Faculty List Guests/Masterclasses × Recent Guests and Masterclasses The College of Music and the Keyboard Area regularly host leading performers and teachers as guest presenters. Recent guests have included: Sergei Babayan Jeremy Denk Lang Lang Paul Lewis Boris Berman Ann Schein Pamela Ruiter-Feenstra James Kibbie Midori Koga Logan Skelton Caroline Hong James Douglass Kimberly Marshall Close Degree Programs Bachelor of Music in Performance Organ Piano Bachelor of Arts in Music Sacred Music Emphasis Master of Music in Performance Opera Coaching Organ Piano Piano Accompanying Piano Pedagogy Master of Arts in Music Piano Technology Doctor of Music in Performance Collaborative Piano Organ Piano Doctor of Philosophy in Music Education Concentrations available in any music education discipline, including: Piano Pedagogy Specialized Studies Programs* Performance Piano Pedagogy Sacred Music Theory Pedagogy (graduate students only) * - For degree-seeking College of Music students only Organ Studies Learn More Accompanying Learn More Piano Pedagogy Learn More Dr. Read Gainsford joins the University Symphony Orchestra in a performance of the Piano Concerto No. 2 in B-Flat Major, Op. 83 by Johannes Brahms in April 2017. Piano student Manuel Vizurraga (L) performs with the University Philharmonic Orchestra in Camille Saint-Saens's Piano Concerto No. 5 in F Major, Op. 103, in a concert in April 2017. Chun Paige Li (C), winner of the 2017 Doctoral Concerto Competition, joins the University Symphony Orchestra for the Piano Concerto No. 3 by Bela Bartok in September 2017. title-inside title-centered 2 Legacy Sort 8 Legacy Priority 12 FSU College of Music 122 N. Copeland St Tallahassee, FL 32306 Main Office: 850-644-3424 Admissions: 850-644-6102 Box Office: 850-644-6500 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Visit on social media @musicFSU © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media