Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu YSM Concert Experience Plan Your Visit contact us buy tickets Close Resources for concertgoers Make your YSM concert experience memorable with these resources, including tips for parking downtown and more information on things to do in New Haven before the performance. Read on to learn more about our many concert venues, including information such as handicapped access, lost and found, and more. Resources Parking Toggle Street Parking Street parking is available on campus. Parking on Wall Street between College and High is not open to the general public. After 5 p.m., there is no time limit for metered parking. Meters run until 9 p.m. Some parking meters accept credit cards, and some only accept change. The Concert Office has quarters available to make change for bills. Parking Lots Please visit Laz Parking and Park New Haven for locations and rates. Handicapped Parking There are many metered spots reserved for handicapped parking around Sprague Memorial Hall, Woolsey Hall, and W.L. Harkness Hall. Parking in these spots requires a disabled license plate or permit. One of these spots is directly in front of Sprague Memorial Hall on College Street, and another is located across the intersection on Wall Street. An additional two spots are located on College Street between Grove and Wall, close to Woolsey Hall. Bicycle Racks There are many bicycle racks in the vicinity of Sprague Memorial Hall, Woolsey Hall, and W.L. Harkness Hall. The city of New Haven also allows cyclists to park their bikes on parking meters. Things to do info new haven yale visitor center Toggle Things to do in New Haven New Haven is home to numerous attractions and restaurants to visit before you attend a School of Music performance. Visit Info New Haven at the link above for more information on dining and events, as well as hotels, travel, and more. Yale campus If you would like to book a tour of the University, the Yale Visitor Center conducts free tours as well as offering information about events and places of interest on the Yale campus. Click the link above to find out more. Venues Morse Recital Hall Toggle Morse Recital Hall is located on the second and third floors of Sprague Memorial Hall and is the School of Music’s primary concert venue. The hall seats 680 concertgoers. The Morse Recital Hall stage is equipped with two Steinway Model D pianos and is home to a wide variety of solo, chamber, and large-ensemble performances featuring students, faculty, and guest artists. Morse Recital Hall hosts performances on the Faculty Artist Series, Horowitz Piano Series, Oneppo Chamber Music Series, Ellington Jazz Series, and Lunchtime Chamber Music series, and student degree recitals. The venue is also home to performances by the Yale Philharmonia, Yale Opera, Yale Percussion Group, and Yale Cellos. Restrooms Restrooms and drinking fountains are located on the basement level and accessible by elevator or stairs. Accessibility and elevator The access ramp is located to the left of the front doors on College Street, and the elevator on the first floor can be found across from the Box Office windows. Handicap parking is also available. Lost and found Please contact the Box Office by phone at 203 432-4158 or email concerts@yale.edu if you have lost an item in Morse Recital Hall. Woolsey Hall Toggle Woolsey Hall, designed by Carrère and Hastings, was built in 1901 to commemorate Yale’s bicentennial and has a seating capacity of 2,650. The hall is home to the Newberry Memorial Organ, one of the world’s largest and most renowned pipe organs. Woolsey Hall hosts performances by the Yale Philharmonia, Yale Schola Cantorum, Yale Symphony Orchestra, Yale Concert Band, Yale Glee Club, student and guest organists, the New Haven Symphony Orchestra, and more. Restrooms Restrooms are located on the lower level. Access to the women’s restroom is via the staircase to the left, near the water fountain. The stairs to the men’s room are accessed on the opposite side, next to the handicap-accessible restroom. Accessibility The access ramp is located on the Grove Street side of the entrance to Woolsey Hall. Handicap parking is also available. Only the orchestra level of the concert hall is accessible. A unisex, handicap-accessible restroom is located past the rotunda on the right, near the ramp entrance. Lost and found If you believe you have lost something in Woolsey Hall, please contact the Yale Security Department at 203 785-5555. Items lost in Woolsey Hall are not brought to the Sprague Memorial Hall Box Office. Sudler Recital Hall Toggle Sudler Recital Hall seats 200 and is located in William L. Harkness Hall on the Sterling Memorial Quadrangle next to Sprague Memorial Hall. A space shared by Yale College and the School of Music, many School of Music student recitals, lectures, chamber music performances, and other events take place here, in addition to undergraduate classes. Restrooms Restrooms near Sudler Hall within Harkness Hall are located on the first and third floors of the building. Accessibility and elevator The south-facing entrance to Harkness Hall (entered from the Sterling Quadrangle) is handicap accessible. There is also an elevator within the building with access to Sudler Hall. Marquand Chapel Toggle The light-filled Marquand Chapel, with its excellent acoustics and flexible seating arrangements, is a unique performance space at Yale. The chapel is home to an E.M. Skinner organ and the Baroque-style Krigbaum organ by Taylor & Boody. Marquand Chapel is often used for performances presented by the Yale Institute of Sacred Music, in addition to the many kinds of religious services that take place there daily. It is located at the end of the Sterling Divinity Quadrangle at the Yale Divinity School. Engage with YSM Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Tel 860 542-3000 norfolk@yale.edu Music in Schools Initiative musicinschools@yale.edu YSM Box Office concerts@yale.edu Quick Links Alumni Hub Concerts at Norfolk Concerts at YSM Giving at YSM Music in Schools Initiative Follow Us See YSM Directory Buy Concert Tickets General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use