Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu campus life New Student Checklist Close COVID-19 Updates Yale University requires all students other than those with approved medical or religious exemptions to be fully vaccinated and to obtain a booster shot within 14 days of eligibility. Yale University’s COVID-19 vaccination requirement Yale University’s COVID-19 policies Please refer to the below page for the most up-to-date information regarding the school’s policies and guidance due to the COVID-19 pandemic. COVID-19 Updates IMPORTANT DATES + DEADLINES Prepare to begin your degree program at the Yale School of Music. Apr. 15: Respond to Yale admissions offer Toggle Log into your online account to respond to Yale’s offer of admission and pay the registration deposit of $500 USD. (Incoming Institute of Sacred Music students should not pay this deposit. Instead, follow deposit instructions in your ISM paperwork.) Activate your Net ID Toggle After submitting your registration deposit, you will receive a series of emails with instructions for activating your Yale email address and NetID. Checking your Yale e-mail account is mandatory. If you would like, you may forward your Yale email to your personal account. Important: Your financial aid award letter will be sent to your Yale email address. You will not be able to accept your financial aid package until your Yale email account is active. April 20: Graduate housing applications learn more Toggle Graduate Housing applications (for graduate dorms and on-campus apartments) will be made available on Wednesday, April 20 at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time. Don't delay–University housing fills up quickly. Visit Student Life + Housing for more information about housing options (on and off-campus) at Yale. May 1: Student visa paperwork due Download Toggle If you are not a U.S. citizen or permanent resident, you must apply for an I-20 from Yale and a student visa from the U.S. Embassy. The YSM Office of Admissions must receive certain documentation on or before May 1 (detailed below). Student Visa: I-20 Instructions You will need to apply for two important documents in order to enroll in school in the United States: an I-20 or DS-2019, issued by Yale University a student visa, issued by the U.S. Embassy The U.S. government requires you to submit documentation (including bank statements) to YSM’s Office of Admissions to prove that you are financially able to support your education. We ask that you submit this paperwork by May 1. You must submit bank statements and affidavits (instructions outlined below) to the Yale School of Music Office of Admissions. Please expect an email from the Office of Admissions upon receipt of your enrollment deposit with detailed instructions regarding how to submit your documents. The amount you must show in your bank statements equals the total estimated cost of tuition and living expenses for one year ($60,710) MINUS your full-tuition scholarship ($36,800) MINUS your fellowship listed in your admissions letter. The remaining cost is the amount you must show. You must submit bank statements or other documentation proving that you possess at least this amount in liquid funds. The bank statement(s) must be in English (issued in English by the bank or translated by a certified translator—not translated by you). The bank statements may be in your name, a sponsor’s name, or a combination of both. If you submit a bank statement from a sponsor (a family member or close friend agreeing to provide financial support), the sponsor must submit an Affidavit of Support (click download button above) to YSM’s Office of Admissions. (The U.S. Embassy might also require your sponsor to complete form I-134.) If you have any questions about the financial documentation, please contact the YSM Office of Admissions by phone at 203 432-4155 or email gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Please do not contact the Office of International Students and Scholars (OISS) about these forms. Applying for a Visa Please refer to this checklist from the Office of International Students & Scholars: Required Financial Certification. Complete and return the required financial certification documents (see I-20 Instructions) to the School of Music. E-mail from OISS. You will receive an e-mail from the Office of International Students and Scholars (OISS) requesting further information. The email will provide instructions for obtaining an immigration document (an I-20 or DS-2019). You must respond to this email. F-1 or J-1. Almost all international students come to the Yale School of Music using the F-1 student visa. However, students using a significant amount of non-personal funds to finance their Yale education may prefer and be eligible for J-1 status, particularly if their spouse is accompanying them and wants to work in the United States. Learn more about the difference. Issuing the I-20. With the required personal data and financial certification documents, the U.S. Government Student and Exchange Visitor Information System (SEVIS) will produce the form I-20 (or DS-2019 for J-1 status). The Yale School of Music will send your I-20 to you by FedEx. SEVIS Fee. All new students applying for F-1 or J-1 status — with the exception of those currently studying in the U.S. — must pay a SEVIS fee ($350 for F-1 status). Click here for instructions for paying the fee. Applying for the Student Visa. Apply early! After you receive your I-20, the next step is to apply for a student visa. Click here for details. You will need to bring your I-20 form, SEVIS Fee receipt, and a copy of your financial documents to the U.S. Consulate or Embassy. You should check the home page of the particular U.S. consulate or embassy to make sure you have all the required forms and fees. Student visas can be issued as early as 120 days before the beginning date noted on the I-20 form, so we encourage students to apply as early as possible. Students in certain countries and/or studying in certain fields may experience lengthy delays in the processing of their student visa applications. Canadian Students. Students who are citizens of Canada must obtain a student visa, but are not required to visit a U.S. embassy in person. They must obtain an I-20 from Yale University and present the I-20 and a valid passport at the U.S. port of entry, receiving a student visa at the border. Be absolutely certain (especially if driving across the border) that you receive an I-94 card at the port of entry marked “F-1” (or “J-1,” if applicable). Entering the United States. You cannot enter the United States more than 30 days prior to the start date printed on your I-20 form. At the U.S. port of entry, you must present your I-20 form (or DS-2019 for J-1 status) and your passport with a valid visa stamp. If you are already in the United States and need to transfer your F-1 student status, please carefully read these instructions. For information about the summer between two programs, visit here. If you are in the United States under another status (such as H-1B), it is recommended that you depart the United States and return with a student visa. For more information, please contact Kira Bellucci in the OISS to make the necessary arrangements. May: Accept your financial aid Toggle The Financial Aid Information Booklet for the 2022-2023 academic year provides useful information about loans, the federal work-study program, instrument/repair loans, and more. The Booklet will be posted here in the near future. A financial aid award notice will be sent by email to your new yale.edu address. Look for an email from SFS@yale.edu in late April-May. In order for your scholarship and fellowship to be processed; you need to officially accept them. Instructions will be included in the email. Students enrolling in the choral conducting, organ, or early music voice programs will receive their financial aid award information from the Institute of Sacred Music (ISM) only and may disregard this section. A full-tuition award and fellowship (stipend) are made to all students who are admitted to the Yale School of Music with the exception of those receiving awards from other agencies. The fellowship amount is listed in your acceptance letter. *Note for DMA students: a continuing registration fee is charged for the three and a half non-resident years (seven semesters). Estimated Budget for School of Music students: Room & Board: $17,865 Books & Music: $788 Personal: $1,155 Travel: $1,346 Health Insurance: $2,756 Tuition: $36,800 Total: $60,710 June 30: Upload Yale ID photo upload photo Toggle Upload your photo by June 30 for your Yale photo ID. July 1: Final transcripts due Toggle All students must submit final transcripts* by July 1 to the Office of Admissions indicating the completion of prerequisite degrees. Students entering the School of Music’s Master of Music (M.M.) degree program must submit a final transcript indicating the completion of a bachelor’s degree. Students entering the School’s Doctor of Musical Arts (D.M.A.) degree program or the Master of Musical Arts (M.M.A.) degree program must submit a final transcript indicating the completion of a master’s degree. Students entering the School’s Artist Diploma (A.D.) program or the Certificate in Performance program must submit a final transcript indicating the completion of high school. *You must have your final, official transcripts (sent directly from the school or transcript clearinghouse) mailed or emailed to our office. Our mailing address is listed below. If you expect that your transcripts will arrive after July 1, please alert us immediately by emailing gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Mailing address Office of Admissions Yale School of Music PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 For FedEx, UPS, or DHL Office of Admissions Yale School of Music 98 Wall Street New Haven, CT 06511 Aug. 1: Vaccinations + health forms yale health Toggle Visit the Yale Health's New Graduate and Professional School Students page and print the “Vaccination Record” form and relevant instructions. Bring the form and instructions with you to a health-care provider to complete. Beginning in late June, visit the Yale Medicat Incoming Student Vaccination Portal. In Medicat, enter your Yale Net ID and set up a password; answer some basic questions; enter the dates of all your vaccinations; upload your forms and documentation for verification; await verification for one to five business days; and respond, if necessary, to requests for further information or corrective action. Aug. 1: Student access to ArtsVision artsvision Toggle By August 1, all incoming students will have access to ArtsVision, the School of Music’s student portal for concert calendars, room reservations, rosters and schedules, the student handbook, career strategies resources, and more. Students can find forms mentioned in orientation and needed throughout the year in the Student Documents section. Login using your NetID and password. Update your personal data SIS Toggle After you move to New Haven, access Yale’s Student Information System (SIS) and update the information on the “Personal Data” tab, specifically your New Haven address and telephone number, billing address, biographical information, and emergency contacts. YalePay + payment plans Toggle YalePay YalePay is the University’s online billing and payment portal for your student account. Monthly emails reminding you to login to YalePay to view your student account activity and make any required payments will be sent to your Yale email account only. It is the student’s responsibility to monitor and review their student account. Tuition and fees for the fall term are billed on July 1st and payment is due on August 1st. The spring term is billed on November 1st and payment is due on December 1st. A late fee of $125 per month is assessed if the balance due in not paid in full by the due date. Financial aid will be reflected on the student account as anticipated credits provided the signed award letter is received by the due date. Financial aid is split evenly between the fall and spring term and will not be available until after the first day of orientation in the fall term and the first day of classes in the spring term. Please visit the Yale Student Accounts website for information regarding your financial accounts at Yale using YalePay. Yale Payment Plan The University’s Office of Student Financial Services provides options to parents and students for paying education expenses on a monthly basis. Visit the Student Accounts Payment Plan page to enroll. start of school dates + deadlines Information about immigration check-in, orientation details, and more will be announced in the near future. Please check back for updates! Sept. 6: First day of the academic year Toggle Students must be present on campus beginning Tuesday, September 6, 2022 (the first day of the academic year), to register for full-time enrollment at the Yale School of Music. student resources Life at Yale learn more Student Employment learn more Toggle The School of Music and University offers students several employment options throughout their time at Yale. Check the page frequently for areas that are hiring and other opportunities. Academic Calendar learn more Study at YSM Tel 203 432-4155 gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu Mailing Address Yale School of Music PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 FedEx, UPS, or DHL Yale School of Music 98 Wall Street New Haven, CT 06511 Reminders Online application opens on September 15 Applications due on December 1 Live auditions (invite only) mid- to late-February Final decision deadline April 15 Quick Links How to Apply Student Groups + Culture Admissions FAQs Follow Us See YSM Directory How to Apply General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use