Skip to navigation Skip to content MU Logo University of Missouri Search search College of Arts and Science School of Music Main navigation menu About News Facilities Mission and Values Diversity Jobs Events Upcoming Past Campus Calendar Convocations High School Weekly E-Blast Programs Admissions Undergraduate Graduate International Visit Us Academics Areas and Initiatives Degrees and Programs Ensembles Non-Major Studies Resources People Faculty Adjunct and Affiliate Faculty Administration and Staff Advising Emeritus Faculty Notable Alumni Student Organizations Community Give Now Schedule an Audition Mizzou Summer Music Camps and Programs 2022 Camps Mizzou Trombone Boot Camp Instructors: Dr. Timothy Howe & Dr. Sam Griffith June 7-10, 2022 Eligibility: High school students entering grades 9-12, camp is limited to 15 students Application deadline if housing is needed: Extended to May 1st! Cost for room/board: $175 (students not needing meals or the dorm will need to pay a $41.45 camp fee, please select which option you prefer in the application) There will be a male and female chaperone whose primary responsibilities will be escorting students to meals and to their dorms. Chaperones will stay on the same floor as students. There is not a lot of free time throughout the day, but chaperones will be with the campers in the evenings when most of the free time happens. Please review this infosheet and letter to participants with information on what to prepare and a sample schedule. Apply today! Online payment option Missouri Summer Composition Institute (COMP) Free! June 11-18, 2022 For more information, visit the Summer COMP website Esterhazy String Quartet Seminar Contact: Professor Eva Szekely During this week-long session, participants will receive daily chamber music coachings, private lessons with Esterhazy Quartet members, and the opportunity to perform in solo masterclasses. Each chamber ensemble will perform at least twice during the session. June 12-19, 2022 Eligibility: High School string students Tuition: Free Application deadline: April 8 Room and board: $575 (includes a $50 non-refundable application fee, which must accompany all applications) Financial aid: limited 2022 Esterhazy Quartet Seminar Brochure Online application Teacher recommendation submission form Online payment option (please submit all application materials prior to paying) Missouri Summer Drumset Intensive Camp Contact: Dr. Troy Hall This camp will be a three-day advanced program for intermediate and advanced high school and college students wishing to improve their technique, vocabulary, and reading within the jazz idiom. June 20-22, 2022 Eligibility: High school and College students of intermediate/advanced ability level.* Camp is limited to 20 students. Cost: $100 Apply today! Application deadline: Wednesday, June 15 Meals not provided, except for Wednesday, June 22. Online Payment Drumset Intensive Camp Flyer *This level assumes that the student: 1) Knows all 40 Percussive Arts Society Rudiments and has good basic hand technique. 2) Has a reading knowledge of drumset notation and jazz band charts. 3) Has basic jazz drumset rhythm and comping skills. 4) Has some enthusiasm for and basic understanding of jazz music and jazz drumset practices. 5) Students who feel unclear if they meet this standard are urged to contact Dr. Hall with any questions. Experiencing Piano for Kids Several options for in-person group piano courses for kids For information and to apply, visit the Experiencing Piano for Kids website Experiencing Piano for Adults Several options for in-person group piano courses for adults For information and to apply, visit the Experiencing Piano for Adults website Private lessons through the Community Music Program June 6 – July 31, 2022 (8-week session) In-person or virtual lessons For more information, visit the CMP website Past Camps Contact Community Music Coordinator Joanna Griffith muasmusicoutreach@missouri.edu Mizzou Trombone Boot Camp Prof. Tim Howe howete@missouri.edu Esterhazy String Quartet Seminar Prof. Eva Szekely SzekelyE@missouri.edu Drumset Camp Prof. Troy Hall tshdbf@mail.missouri.edu Summer COMP Jason Thorpe Buchanan jthorpebuchanan@missouri.edu Experiencing Piano Coordinator Meghan Speed meghanspeed@mail.missouri.edu PDF Documents Mizzou Youth Program Handout for Parents 2022 Trombone Boot Camp Infosheet 2022 Trombone Camp Letter 2022 Esterhazy Quartet Seminar Brochure 2022 Drumset Intensive Camp Flyer MU Logo University of Missouri Contact Us School of Music 208 Sinquefield Music Center | Columbia, MO 65211 Phone: 573-882-2604 Email: music@missouri.edu Published by Digital Service, 234 Heinkel Building, Columbia, MO 65211 Email: digitalservice@missouri.edu Phone: 573-882-4523 MU is an equal opportunity/access/affirmative action/pro-disabled and veteran employer and does not discriminate on the basis of sex in our education programs or activities, pursuant to Title IX and 34 CFR Part 106. For more information, visit MU’s Nondiscrimination Policy or the Office of Institutional Equity. © 2022 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information. Privacy policy