Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | College of Music Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU College of Music Toggle navigation Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Home Programs Performance Jazz Jazz Program Our success is demonstrated by our many graduates employed by professional ensembles and universities. The Jazz Program at Florida State University provides a wide variety of opportunities for students who are interested in pursuing a career in jazz performance and/or jazz music education. It includes a comprehensive curriculum of study from theory, arranging, music business, jazz history, and jazz pedagogy, to private instruction on jazz drum set, upright bass, saxophone, trumpet, trombone and piano. Three large ensembles (big bands) provide a focus on the performance of music ranging from Fletcher Henderson and Duke Ellington to Thad Jones/Mel Lewis, while smaller chamber groups (combos) encourage student improvisation and provide a focus on the essence of small group interaction and the performance of standard and original works. Each ensemble performs at least twice a semester. The jazz program also presents a monthly jazz series at the Club Downunder in the Oglesby Student Union. Faculty List Graduate Placements × Graduate Placement Graduate Placement Graduates of the Jazz Studies program have found success performing and teaching jazz music around the country. Several have received Grammy Award nominated or performed in Emmy Award-winning productions. Other accolades include a Guggenheim Fellow (Etienne Charles) and two winners of the Thelonious Monk International Competition (Marcus Roberts and Jamison Ross). Alumni have played with groups and artists such as: Jazz at Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra, Count Basie Orchestra, SF Jazz, New Orleans Jazz Orchestra, Jason Marsalis Quartet, Snarky Puppy, Roy Haynes, Lee Konitz, Carmen Lundy, Rene Marie, and Russell Gunn, among others. Teaching appointments include: Michigan State University, University of Miami-Frost School of Music, University of North Texas, University of North Florida, Georgia State University, and the San Francisco Conservatory of Music. Close Degree Programs Bachelor of Arts in Music Bachelor of Music in Performance Master of Music in Performance Specialized Studies Programs Jazz Studies* * - For degree-seeking College of Music students only Recent Masterclasses Learn More Jazz Ensembles Learn More Jazz in Owen Sellers Our students perform both on campus and throughout the country. To view a photo gallery of faculty and students In the Jazz PROGRAM CLICK HERE. To visit our Facebook page CLICK HERE. × Recent Masterclasses The College of Music and the Jazz Studies Area regularly host leading performers and teachers as guest presenters. Recent guests have included: Russell Malone (guitarist) · Steve Wilson (alto sax) · Ellis Marsalis (jazz pianist) · Jimmy Cobb (jazz drummer) · Melvin Jones (jazz trumpeter) · Rufus Reid (jazz bassist) · Sean Jones (jazz trumpeter) · Walt Weiskopf (jazz saxophone) · Wynton Marsalis (jazz trumpet) · Clay Jenkins (jazz trumpet) · Jon Faddis (jazz trumpet) · Tim Warfield (jazz saxophone) · Brandford Marsalis (jazz saxophone) · Wayne Shorter (jazz saxophone) Close title-inside title-centered 2 Legacy Sort 8 Legacy Priority 11 FSU College of Music 122 N. Copeland St Tallahassee, FL 32306 Main Office: 850-644-3424 Admissions: 850-644-6102 Box Office: 850-644-6500 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Visit on social media @musicFSU © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media