Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | College of Music Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU College of Music Toggle navigation Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets For the latest related to COVID-19, visit fsu.edu/coronavirus University Singers Spring Tour This spring, Dr. Kevin Fenton and members of the University Singers returned to their annual spring tour, performing concerts in Sarasota, Tampa, Orlando and Puerto Rico. Learn More Faculty to Record with RSNO Dr. Alexander Jiménez, Professor of Conducting, Director of Orchestral Activities, and the String Area Coordinator will record with the Royal Scottish National Orchestra Read more Housewright Virtuoso Series Recap: Incantare The FSU College of Music and the early music group Incantare commemorated the 200th anniversary of Florida becoming a U.S. territory in a special concert performance. Learn More Housewright Virtuoso Series Recap: Boris Giltburg The College of Music was pleased to present a special guest artist residency featuring acclaimed pianist Boris Giltburg (March 1-3). Read more An Afternoon of FSU Opera On Sunday, February 6, 2022, spectacular performances of opera arias and overtures were performed in honor of retiring opera director, Douglas Fisher. Learn More Jazz Week in Review Jazz Week at the FSU College of Music was packed with events, masterclasses, and performances featuring FSU’s world-class jazz faculty and special guest artists Read more FSU College of Music librarian named inaugural Noël Coward fellow A Florida State University College of Music faculty member has been awarded a prestigious fellowship to conduct research on English playwright, performer and composer Sir Noël Peirce Coward. Read more College of Music Professor Receives Fulbright Distinguished Chair Award Dr. Frank Gunderson to present a group digital humanities initiative at the University of Dar Es Salaam (UDSM) Read more Publication Earns High Honor for College of Music Professor Dr. Sarah Eyerly receives the 2021 Music in American Culture Award from the American Musicological Society Read more Engage with our Community Alumni & Friends University Musical Associates Featured Performances "> FSU University Philharmonia February 18, 2022 "> FSU Jazz Faculty and Guests January 30, 2022 "> FSU University Singers and Chamber Choir November 13, 2021 "> W. A. Mozart’s Die Zauberflöte FSU Opera | October 28, 2021 "> Mahler Symphony No.2 "Resurrection" University Symphony Orchestra & Choirs | October 9, 2021 View live performances WFSU Live Performances View past performances WFSU Past Performances Follow us @musicFSU Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Upcoming Events View All Events Tickets Pursue Your Passion Great performances start with a great setting. Discover the inspiration of a great concert hall. See our Halls Make Great Music Great music always begins with a gathering of talented musicians. Come be part of our amazing performing ensembles. View our Ensembles Chart Your Future A world-class career begins with a world-class education. Come start your musical journey @ FSU. View Our Programs title-inside title-centered 2 Legacy Sort 8 Legacy Priority 0 FSU College of Music 122 N. Copeland St Tallahassee, FL 32306 Main Office: 850-644-3424 Admissions: 850-644-6102 Box Office: 850-644-6500 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Visit on social media @musicFSU © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media