Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Music Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events Search Department of Music Handbook Breadcrumb Home Graduate Graduate Programs Music & Multimedia Composition Sub Navigation In This Section Handbook Handbook The Music and Multimedia Composition (MMC) Graduate Handbook is intended to help guide new and continuing students through their graduate studies in the MMC program at Brown. For clarification and additional information on policy, contact Ed Osborn, MMC Director of Graduate Studies(DGS). DGSs are responsible for all graduate-related issues and act as liaisons between graduate students and the Graduate School. DGSs are expected to send annual updates to graduate students informing them of their academic standing and expected progress and are the primary point of contact for students who may need to make special requests regarding deferred admission, travel, leaves of absence, etc. Additionally, each graduate student should meet regularly with the DGS to discuss goals, course planning, and progress. The Student Affairs Officer in the Music Department administers the department’s graduate program and should be contacted first on administrative matters having to do with the Graduate School, such as regulations, forms and deadlines. The first part of this handbook is a summary of the regulations concerning degrees. The second part expands on the first, offering suggestions about each year of study, and explaining procedures governing evaluation, financial aid, and the qualifying examinations (prelims). General information for graduate students is contained in the Catalogue of the University, the Catalogue of the Graduate School, and online at the Graduate School website. You should consult these other sources of information as well as this handbook. The most up-to-date information is here in the MMC Graduate Handbook. Download the MMC Handbook Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Handbook Open details for Handbook Bookmark this Page