Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu Campus Life Life at Yale Close Broaden your musical horizons The School of Music and the University provide what students need: stellar facilities for performance and learning, career-strategies guidance, and resources for housing, dining, wellness, and safety. Graduate Student Life at Yale Graduate students can stay active in the Yale community in a variety of ways. Yale is home to a number of cultural centers and hundreds of student organizations. Housing Toggle Housing in New Haven is abundant and affordable. It’s easy to find a nice apartment in a great neighborhood within walking distance of the Yale School of Music or on one of Yale’s free shuttle routes. Some students choose to live in graduate dorms and others choose to rent apartments on- or off-campus. For general information about graduate housing options, visit the Yale Housing Office. On-Campus Housing Most YSM students who prefer living in a graduate dorm choose Helen Hadley Hall, located at 420 Temple St., due to its close proximity to the School. The Hall of Graduate Studies, another graduate dorm on-campus, closed for renovations in May 2018. Off-Campus Housing Many YSM students who live off-campus live downtown, where they’re a 5- to 10-minute walk from campus, or in the East Rock neighborhood, which can be a 10- to 25-minute walk from campus and is serviced by Yale’s free shuttle lines. Helpful sites for finding apartments include University Properties and the Yale Off-Campus Housing Database. learn more Dining Toggle Though most YSM students don’t purchase a meal plan, several meal-plan options are available for dining at on-campus locations. Off-Campus Dining New Haven is well known for its wide variety of cuisines and restaurants, but the local pizza is really what puts it on the map. learn more YSM Student Groups Toggle If you are considering starting a student organization or organizing a student life event, please contact the Deputy Dean's Office prior to doing so. Resources for current YSM students interested in student organizations of affinity groups can be found on ArtsVision. OutLoud OutLoud is the LGBTQ+ student organization at the Yale School of Music. The group’s mission is to foster a safe and supportive environment for the School’s LGBTQ+ students. versicolor versicolor is a student-led new music group at the Yale School of Music, dedicated to playing both brand new works and monumental works of the last century, with the mission of promoting a diverse scope of contemporary music. explore yale student life Student Advisory Council Toggle The student advisory council is comprised of students elected by their peers representing all areas of the School of Music. Currently in its interim status until the Director of Equity, Belonging, and Student Life is appointed, the council works with the Office of the Dean and the executive committee. Graduate and Professional Student Senate (GPSS) learn more Toggle All Yale Graduate and Professional students are automatically members of the larger Graduate and Professional Student Senate group. Each school also has at least two seats for representatives on the Senate. The Senate reps meet every other week and aim to build G&P community through professional development, community engagement, and social events. They also fund student initiatives open to the G&P community at large, and advocate for general G&P student interests to the university. In schools without their own student council, elections are run by the Senate and take place in the Fall. See the Deputy Dean's Office for more information. Belonging at Yale learn more Toggle We come from many backgrounds and places. We have many perspectives, talents, and strengths. Our differences and our commonalities help make Yale a great university—a place where each of us belongs and where we are free to explore the breadth of our intellectual curiosity, the depth of our humanity, and the potential of our scholarship, research, work, and practice. Our sense of belonging is critical to the strength of our community and the quality of a Yale education. It makes it possible to ask important questions and offer new answers. Each member of the Yale community should expect: Equal opportunity to contribute, learn, grow, and succeed. Rejection of harassment or discrimination, and accountability for actions. Open exchange of ideas across a range of intellectual, historical, and social perspectives. More Yale Student Life learn more Toggle Yale aspires to be the most student-focused research university in the world. Yale’s commitments to teaching and student engagement are distinctive, as too are its activities that prepare and assist students to take full advantage of their educational programs and of the extraordinary strengths and assets of the university. University-wide support for student life includes: Yale Connect, an engagement platform for student organizations; Yale Votes, voter registration and polling information; Yale Well, resources for student wellness; and Payne Whitney Gym, a fitness enthusiast’s dream. With over 12 acres of indoor space, there is something here for everyone. All currently enrolled students are invited to use the facility free of charge. Study at YSM Tel 203 432-4155 gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu Mailing Address Yale School of Music PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 FedEx, UPS, or DHL Yale School of Music 98 Wall Street New Haven, CT 06511 Reminders Online application opens on September 15 Applications due on December 1 Live auditions (invite only) mid- to late-February Final decision deadline April 15 Quick Links How to Apply Student Groups + Culture Admissions FAQs Follow Us See YSM Directory How to Apply General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use