Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Music Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events Search Department of Music Individual Lessons Students seeking to improve their playing or singing ability have the option of taking individual private lessons with about thirty professional musicians from the greater Boston-Providence area. Breadcrumb Home Music Making Sub Navigation In This Section Ensembles Lessons Applied Music Program Guidelines Individual Lessons Students seeking to improve their playing or singing ability have the option of taking individual private lessons with about thirty professional musicians from the greater Boston-Providence area. Our Teaching Associates offer intensive instruction in piano, voice, and all the individual instrument families of the symphony orchestra, the wind ensemble and jazz ensemble. Students may also study instruments such as organ, African drums, harpsichord, tabla, and sitar. Lessons are offered for academic credit and for an additional fee through the Applied Music Program (AMP). Ordinarily, new students audition at the beginning of the fall and the spring semesters. In non-pandemic years, students seeking credit are expected to attend and perform in the group classes, master classes, and juries arranged for their instrument group over the course of the term. Following safety guidelines the University set for all students and faculty, these types of activities will undoubtedly vary from other years. Administration General policy for the AMP is made by the Music Department faculty, subject to approval by the Administration and Corporation. The Chair of the Department of Music is the director of the program and responsible for its administration. Division administrators, appointed annually and reporting to the Chair, are responsible for administration of their divisions. The following are division administrators this year: Keyboard Gila Goldstein gila_goldstein@brown.edu Strings, Harp, and Classical Guitar Lois Finkel lois_finkel@brown.edu (401) 863-1472 Orwig Rm. 229 Voice (Classical and Musical Theatre) Louis Frederick Jodry Fred_Jodry@brown.edu 863-3761 Orwig 305 Jazz (All Instruments Including Voice) Ed Tomassi edward_tomassi@brown.edu Winds, Brass, Percussion (Classical) Kevin Plouffe kevin_plouffe@brown.edu South Asian Music (Sitar, Tabla, or any instrument) Srinivas Reddy srinivas_reddy@brown.edu AMP Guidelines The Applied Music Program is a series of private instrumental and vocal instruction courses at the intermediate and advanced levels (MUSC0810 & 1810 respectively). Restricted to trained musicians of demonstrated skill and commitment, the program enables students to continue applied musical studies while at Brown. See the Guidelines Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Individual Lessons Open details for Individual Lessons Bookmark this Page