Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu Norfolk Chamber Music Festival–Yale Summer School of Music Chamber Music Session admissions It was an honor to be one of the Norfolk Fellows this summer. Every fellow brought the deepest dedication and emotion to their performances. It was a true joy to work with and be inspired by such a group of artists. Sophia Stoyanovich, violin (NCMF ’21) Close July 3–August 14, 2022 Applications are no longer accepted for summer 2022. For six weeks each summer, advanced individual instrumentalists and preformed ensembles come to Norfolk to immerse themselves in the study and performance of chamber music. Norfolk Fellows are mentored by acclaimed artists with whom they perform on the Festival’s main concert series. Fellows also perform regularly on the Emerging Artist Series series. All concerts are live streamed and recorded. All fellows accepted to the Chamber Music Session receive an Ellen Battell Stoeckel Fellowship covering the full cost of tuition, housing, and meals. The 2022 Chamber Music Session is open to winds, brass, strings, and piano. Individual instrumentalists as well as preformed ensembles — piano trios, string quartets, wind quintets, and brass quintets — are welcome to apply. Fellows accepted as individual instrumentalists will be placed into ensembles. Scroll down to learn how to apply. The Norfolk Chamber Music Festival – Yale Summer School of Music is continually monitoring the current health situation in light of the COVID-19 pandemic to ensure that moving forward with the program is safe and appropriate. We will follow Yale University and CDC recommendations and protocols for safety and preparedness. Vaccination is required for live auditions, and for participation in all three summer sessions. Strings Brentano Quartet Ensemble in Residence, Yale School of Music Festival Artists, Norfolk Chamber Music Festival See Profile Dover Quartet Festival Artists, Norfolk Chamber Music Festival See Profile St. Lawrence String Quartet Festival Artists, Norfolk Chamber Music Festival See Profile Eugene Drucker Violin, Festival Artist, Norfolk Chamber Music Festival See Profile Ani Kavafian Professor in the Practice of Violin, Yale School of Music See Profile Tai Murray Assistant Professor, Adjunct, of Violin, Yale School of Music See Profile Lawrence Dutton Viola, Festival Artist, Norfolk Chamber Music Festival See Profile Ole Akahoshi Assistant Professor Adjunct of Cello, Yale School of Music Director, Yale Cellos, Yale School of Music See Profile Winds Ransom Wilson Professor Adjunct of Flute, Yale School of Music See Profile Stephen Taylor Lecturer in Oboe, Yale School of Music See Profile Romie de Guise-Langlois Clarinet, Festival Artist, Norfolk Chamber Music Festival See Profile David Shifrin Professor in the Practice of Clarinet, Yale School of Music Artistic Director, Oneppo Chamber Music Series, Yale School of Music Artistic Director, Yale in New York, Yale School of Music See Profile Frank Morelli Associate Professor Adjunct of Music, Yale School of Music See Profile Brass William Purvis Professor in the Practice of Horn, Yale School of Music Director, Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments See Profile Mary Elizabeth Bowden Trumpet, Festival Artist, Norfolk Chamber Music Festival See Profile Allan Dean Trumpet, Festival Artist, Norfolk Chamber Music Festival See Profile Scott Hartman Lecturer in Trombone, Yale School of Music See Profile Piano Boris Berman Sylvia and Leonard Marx Professor in the Practice of Piano, Yale School of Music Artistic Director, Horowitz Piano Series, Yale School of Music See Profile Robert Blocker Henry and Lucy Moses Dean of Music, Yale School of Music Professor of Piano, Yale School of Music See Profile Melvin Chen Deputy Dean, Yale School of Music Professor in the Practice of Piano, Yale School of Music Director, Norfolk Chamber Music Festival See Profile Wei-Yi Yang Professor in the Practice of Piano, Yale School of Music See Profile Natalie Zhu Piano, Festival Artist, Norfolk Chamber Music Festival See Profile It is very inspiring to make music with friends on beautiful grounds and in the acoustically superb Shed. Boris Berman, piano, Norfolk Festival Artist more information on... How to Apply Toggle Applications are no longer accepted for summer 2022. The Norfolk Chamber Music Festival–Yale Summer School of Music will accept applications for the 2022 Chamber Music Session from individual violin, viola, cello, flute, oboe, clarinet, bassoon, horn, trumpet, trombone, tuba, and piano instrumentalists, as well as pre-formed string quartets, wind quintets, brass quintets, and piano trios. Participants are selected on the basis of ability and supporting materials. All Chamber Music Session participants will receive a fellowship covering the full cost of tuition, housing and meals. Session + Application Cost Toggle Application fee: $80 (non-refundable) Registration fee: $300 (refundable) Registration fee is due upon acceptance of the fellowship. Registration fee is refundable after completion of the program subject to deductions in the event of damage or loss to any property, non-compliance with any Festival policies, and successful completion of work-study assignments. Pre-formed ensembles: Each member of the group must submit the $300 registration fee. One person may also pay for the entire ensemble. Tuition, housing, and meals All participants will receive an Ellen Battell Stoeckel Fellowship covering the full cost of tuition, housing, and meals. Requirement Checklist Toggle 1. Online application form The application includes sections where you will upload all of your application materials. Applications can be started and then saved to be continued at a later time. To apply as an individual: Choose the 2022 Chamber Music Session application. Do not use the 2022 Ensemble Member Supplement. This is for additional members of pre-formed ensembles only. To apply as a pre-formed group: There are two parts to the online application for pre-formed groups: 2022 Chamber Music Session application completed by the designated primary contact. 2022 Ensemble Member Supplement completed by all other members of the ensemble. The primary contact will complete the 2022 Chamber Music Application with the information of all group members and the group’s audition-date preferences. The primary contact must provide the full name, email address, instrument, and birthdate (date, month, and year) of each member. The primary contact must also know the group’s preferred audition dates (first and second choice). Primary contact will upload letters of recommendation, recordings, repertoire, and group CV/résumé. All materials must represent the ensemble, not individual members. After the primary contact submits the application, remaining members will receive an email with a link and temporary PIN to help “reset the password” for the 2022 Ensemble Member Supplement, which will appear as “already in progress.” Each group member must submit an application and the $80 application fee. If a member of the ensemble would also like to be considered as an individual, she/he must submit an additional, separate application and application fee. 2. Screening Video(s) Screening video recordings must be uploaded as part of the application. Videos uploaded to YouTube will be accepted. Recordings of poor quality will not be evaluated. See the Screening and Live Audition Repertoire section below for more information related to your instrument. 3. Two letters of recommendation On the application, you will provide your recommenders’ email addresses. He/she will receive an automatic email with instructions on how to submit a recommendation. Letters must be written after 1/1/21. 4. Résumé or CV Your résumé or CV must reflect experience and studies. It is helpful to include such information as schools attended, private teachers, performance experience, competition experience, and music festival experience. 5. Repertoire list A list of works (with composers) you have performed, been coached on, and/or rehearsed, with an emphasis on chamber works. Pianists: Repertoire list must include chamber works you have studied or performed in the past three years. 6. Non-refundable $80 application fee Once your online application is submitted, you will be prompted to submit the application fee. Audition Repertoire Toggle Preformed String Ensembles (with and without piano) Two complete works of contrasting styles from the standard repertoire. One work must be by Haydn, Mozart, or Beethoven. Preformed Wind Quintets Three complete works of contrasting styles from different stylistic periods, including at least one work from the 20th or 21st century. Preformed Brass Quintets Three complete works of contrasting styles from different stylistic periods, including at least one work from the 20th or 21st century. Flute, Oboe, Clarinet, Bassoon, and Horn Either two complete works of contrasting styles from different stylistic periods, OR two movements of contrasting works, PLUS four contrasting excerpts from the standard orchestral repertoire. Trumpet, Trombone, and Tuba Two contrasting works from different stylistic periods and four varied excerpts from the standard orchestral repertoire. Violin One movement from an unaccompanied Bach sonata or partita and one movement from a standard Classical, Romantic, or 20th century concerto. For live audition only, in addition to the list above, first violin part, Beethoven String Quartet in G Major, Op.18, No. 2 (first movement, exposition). Viola One movement from an unaccompanied Bach suite, sonata, or partita and one movement from a standard Classical, Romantic, or 20th century concerto. For live audition only, in addition to the list above, the viola part from 1) Mozart Viola Quintet K. 515 (third movement; bars 100-118); and 2) Ravel String Quartet (finale; bar 212, letter N, to the end) Cello One movement from an unaccompanied Bach suite and one movement from a standard Classical, Romantic, or 20th century concerto. For live audition only, in addition to the list above, the cello part from 1) Bartók String Quartet No. 2 (first movement, rehearsal number 18 to the end); and 2) Beethoven Op. 18, No. 4 (first movement, measures 108–127) Piano Two contrasting movements from a sonata by Beethoven, Haydn, Mozart, or Schubert, a larger Romantic 19th century work, and a 20th or 21st century composition. Repertoire should demonstrate variety and flexibility. A recent recital video may be substituted if the program falls within the guidelines listed below. Recordings with an accompanist are encouraged but not required. Video recordings must be uploaded with the application. Recordings of poor quality will not be evaluated. If you have questions about repertoire or the requirements, please email norfolk@yale.edu or call the Norfolk office at 860 542-3000. Live Auditions Toggle Live auditions for the Chamber Music Session will be held in select cities across the United States. Applicants invited to a live audition will be notified by email. Videos may substitute for live auditions in exceptional cases where extensive travel is required. Sight reading may be required at the live audition. Applicants are encouraged but not required to perform with an accompanist. Audition Dates: New York, NY (strings only): Sunday, February 6 New York, NY (winds, brass, and piano): Tuesday, February 1 Boston, MA (all instruments): Tuesday, February 15 Philadelphia, PA (all instruments): Thursday, February 10 Los Angeles, CA (all instruments): Thursday, February 3 Current Yale School of Music students will audition in New Haven. Strings: Monday, February 7 Winds: Wednesday, February 9 Brass: TBA Piano: Friday, February 11 Acceptance Toggle Candidates will be notified by email on or before March 31, 2022, about the status of their application and audition results. A refundable registration fee of $300 must be paid by credit card within 10 days of acceptance to secure one’s position. The fee will be refunded after completion of the program subject to deductions in the event of damage or loss to any property or non-compliance with any Festival policies. Payment of all fees is required upon acceptance of fellowship. Fees can be paid by credit card: Visa, MasterCard, or American Express are accepted. Cash or checks are not accepted. Online Application APPLY Yale University’s Nondiscrimination/Title IX Statements Toggle The University is committed to basing judgments concerning the admission, education, and employment of individuals upon their qualifications and abilities and affirmatively seeks to attract to its faculty, staff, and student body qualified persons of diverse backgrounds. In accordance with this policy and as delineated by federal and Connecticut law, Yale does not discriminate in admissions, educational programs, or employment against any individual on account of that individual’s sex, race, color, religion, age, disability, status as a veteran, or national or ethnic origin; nor does Yale discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression. University policy is committed to affirmative action under law in employment of women, minority group members, individuals with disabilities, and protected veterans. Inquiries concerning these policies may be referred to Valarie Stanley, Director of the Office of Institutional Equity and Access, 221 Whitney Avenue; 4th Floor, 203 432-0849. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from sex discrimination in educational programs and activities at institutions that receive federal financial assistance. Questions regarding Title IX may be referred to the University’s Title IX Coordinator, Stephanie Spangler, at 203 432-4446 or at titleix@yale.edu, or to the U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 8th Floor, 5 Post Office Square, Boston MA 02109-3921; tel. 617 289-0111, fax 617 289-0150, TDD 800 877-8339, or ocr.boston@ed.gov. Personal Data Toggle Personal data collected by Yale University throughout the admissions process is collected for the primary purposes of considering your candidacy for admission and evaluating your eligibility for financial aid, if applicable. If you are admitted and enroll, your personal data will be used as necessary for registration and to facilitate your education. 2022 Welcome Materials View Engage with YSM Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Tel 860 542-3000 norfolk@yale.edu Music in Schools Initiative musicinschools@yale.edu YSM Box Office concerts@yale.edu Quick Links Alumni Hub Concerts at Norfolk Concerts at YSM Giving at YSM Music in Schools Initiative Follow Us See YSM Directory Buy Concert Tickets General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use