Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu YSM Concert Experience Box Office contact us buy tickets spring 2022 COVID-19 audience policy For the spring 2022 semester, concerts are open to members of the public who are asymptomatic and up-to-date on COVID vaccinations—meaning they have received all recommended COVID-19 vaccines for their age range, including any booster dose(s) when eligible. View full policies and reserve tickets on our ticketing site. Individuals who cannot attend concerts in person are always invited to watch livestreams of concerts presented by the Yale School of Music on our website. livestream Close Concert Calendar View the full concert calendar to see all upcoming events at the Yale School of Music. view concerts Ticket policies + procedures Sales + promotions Toggle No refunds All payments are final. Exchanges We are pleased to offer ticket exchanges. If you have purchased tickets that you cannot use, you may exchange them for tickets to another event. The face value of the tickets, minus a $5 transaction fee, can be applied to your order at the time of exchange or added to your account for redemption later in the season. If you do not wish to exchange your tickets, you may donate them for resale before the concert begins; you will receive a receipt for tax purposes. Fees As of August 1, 2018, a $2 per ticket fee is included in all single ticket purchases. Subscription, Sampler, Student, and most other discounted ticket prices are exempt from this fee. Payment methods We accept Mastercard, Visa, and American Express. Cash and checks are accepted for mail and in-person sales. Reservations Seats cannot be reserved without payment. Online ticketing Web sales are available until two hours before the event begins, or until an event is sold out. Student tickets Ticketed events offer discounted prices to students with a valid, current ID from any university, secondary school, or primary school. Students must present a current, valid student ID to purchase student tickets. Yale students may purchase tickets online by logging in with a valid netID and password. Students from other institutions must call or visit the box office and show a student ID. Student tickets may be available only in certain sections of the concert hall. Yale School of Music student tickets Complimentary ticket offers to specific concerts for Yale School of Music students are periodically sent out by email. To reserve your tickets, please follow the link in that email by the indicated deadline. If you do not reserve by the deadline, you will not be able to reserve comp tickets. Tickets must be picked up on the day of the concert, either from the Sprague Memorial Hall box office between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m., or from the will-call table starting 2 hours before the concert until 30 minutes before the concert. After 7 p.m. (for 7:30 p.m. concerts), tickets that have not been picked up will be returned to the box office. If you still wish to attend the concert, you will need to purchase a ticket. If you reserve a ticket and find you can no longer attend the performance, call 203 432-4158 or email the box office to have your ticket released. If you fail to pick up your ticket or to contact the concert office, you may lose your comp ticket privileges. Student rush tickets For the Oneppo Chamber Music Series, Horowitz Piano Series, and Ellington Jazz Series, free student rush tickets will be offered at the box office for students in college and K-12 with a valid ID. When available, tickets will be distributed starting 30 minutes before each concert. One ticket per ID, subject to availability. Print-at-home/mobile tickets Print-at-home ticketing is available for most orders. During the checkout process, select the “Print at Home/Mobile” shipping method, and PDF tickets will be sent to your email. You may choose to print the PDF file or show the barcode on your phone screen. Cancellations + postponements Toggle If we have to postpone or cancel a concert to which you have purchased tickets, we will make every effort to contact you. You can help by providing an email address and/or phone number when purchasing a ticket. Inclement weather does not affect our performances except when absolutely necessary. Please plan accordingly as all sales are final. If a concert is postponed to a new date, you will have the option of using your original tickets or receiving a refund. If a concert is canceled, you will receive a refund. Programs and performers are subject to change. Join our mailing list sign-up Toggle Receive the most up-to-date concert listings, event updates, discounts, and more through our weekly concert e-blast. Email + privacy Toggle An email address is required to create your online account. This assists us with processing your order and providing you with event information. We never release your email address to other organizations. If you would like to unsubscribe or join a new list, you can manage your email preferences online. Mailing address + contact Toggle Sprague Memorial Hall 470 College St. New Haven, CT, 06511 203 432-4158 concerts@yale.edu Box Office hours Toggle June–August Monday–Friday, 11 a.m.–2 p.m. September–May Monday–Friday, 11 a.m.–2 p.m., and 5:30 p.m. through intermission of ticketed concerts Saturday & Sunday: two hours before ticketed events through intermission At the concert Toggle Silence your phone Please silence all cell phones, tablets, and other devices when you enter the concert hall. Please do not put your device on vibrate, as the noise from the vibration can be heard throughout the hall. Food + beverage Food and drink are prohibited in the hall. Late seating Patrons who arrive late will be permitted to enter at the discretion of the house management. Please plan to arrive in plenty of time. Photography and recording Unauthorized photography and recording are prohibited at Yale School of Music events. If you are a member of the press and would like to take photographs, please contact the Communications Office in advance. Engage with YSM Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Tel 860 542-3000 norfolk@yale.edu Music in Schools Initiative musicinschools@yale.edu YSM Box Office concerts@yale.edu Quick Links Alumni Hub Concerts at Norfolk Concerts at YSM Giving at YSM Music in Schools Initiative Follow Us See YSM Directory Buy Concert Tickets General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use