Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu Commencement Celebration University Commencement Yale’s 321st commencement will be held on Monday, May 23, 2022, at 10:30 a.m., on the historic Old Campus. Monday’s ceremony marks the occasion at which all University and honorary degrees are formally conferred. Diploma ceremonies follow the university ceremony in all residential colleges and at each school. learn more Close Congratulations, Class of 2022! The Yale School of Music's commencement ceremony will be held on Monday, May 23, 2022, at 12 p.m., in Morse Recital Hall, following the Yale University ceremony. During our ceremony, we will acknowledge the conferral of degrees and announce the recipients of student commencement prizes. Please join us on May 23 as we celebrate the YSM Class of 2022! Classes of 2020 and 2021 On Saturday, May 14, 2022, the Yale School of Music and the University community will honor alumni from the classes of 2020 and 2021 with traditional commencement ceremonies. Questions can be emailed to music.alumni@yale.edu. Required COVID-19 precautions for Commencement activities For your own personal safety, for the safety of those around you, and to protect the home communities of all attendees, we urge you to carefully observe the following fundamental COVID-19 precautions. If you have any questions, please email yalemusic.info@yale.edu. General requirements Toggle Testing Free rapid tests will be provided to YSM students, faculty, staff, and guests; rapid tests can be picked up at the security office of the Adams Center for Musical Arts. YSM students, faculty, and staff should also continue to test through Yale Screening. Attendees who are traveling to New Haven should test before they travel, and, when possible, test upon arrival in New Haven. Masking Masks must be worn at most events. Please bring N95-equivalent or ASTM masks; a cloth mask should only be worn as an overmask. Extra masks will be available at many venues. For activities at which masking is not required, you can always choose to wear a mask and it is strongly recommended that you continue to wear a mask whenever possible. Vaccination All attendees should be up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccination and must carry copies of their vaccination documents, which will be required for admittance to some Yale events. Up-to-date means that an individual has received all CDC-recommended COVID-19 vaccinations for their age range. Individuals who are unvaccinated or not up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccination may attend some events but must familiarize themselves with these health and safety protocols and submit this attestation form verifying that they will comply with the University’s requirements. Attestation forms do not need to be submitted for unvaccinated children under the age of 5. Please note that the School of Music Honors Banquet and May 23 Commencement Luncheon are restricted to individuals who are up-to-date with their vaccination. Symptoms Individuals who are experiencing any symptoms should not attend Yale events. Requirements for unvaccinated individuals Toggle If you are unvaccinated, you must familiarize yourself with Yale’s health and safety requirements for unvaccinated Commencement guests and submit this attestation form, verifying that you will comply with the requirements below. Please note that attestation forms do not need to be submitted for unvaccinated children under the age of 5. Participate only in those events that allow unvaccinated attendees (outdoor, university-wide events, and events specified by Yale College and each of the graduate and professional schools). Have a COVID-19 PCR test no more than 48 hours before traveling; do not travel until you receive your results. If your test is positive do not travel to New Haven. If your test is negative, carry your test results with you and be prepared to share them if asked. Bring a supply of good quality masks (ASTM, KN95, or N95) and rapid antigen tests. While in New Haven, take a rapid test each morning, carry a dated photo of your results, and be prepared to show it as proof of negative test results. If any test is positive, mask, isolate, and make plans to leave campus immediately. If you are experiencing symptoms, mask, isolate, and take a rapid test. Attend only those events at which unvaccinated guests are allowed. Wear a mask when indoors and in large gatherings, including ceremonies. Maintain six feet of distance from others when indoors. Avoid eating and drinking indoors on campus. Focus social time outdoors. Information for Class of 2020 and 2021 alumni Toggle All attendees (students, faculty, staff, and guests) are asked to self-administer a rapid test on the morning of May 13, either before coming to campus or upon arrival. Free rapid tests can be picked up at the Adams Center for Musical Arts. Anyone attending the Honors Banquet should take a rapid test 30-60 minutes before arriving at the Omni Hotel. All rapid testing is on the honor system; negative results do not need to be reported to the YSM. Only individuals who are up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccination may attend the Honors Banquet. Saturday, May 14, 2022 University Commencement ceremony Everyone is welcome to attend this event. Unvaccinated individuals may attend but must observe these precautions. Masks are recommended. All bags will be checked at gates and no bags larger than 12x12 will be allowed. School of Music Commencement ceremony Everyone is welcome to attend this event. Unvaccinated individuals may attend but must observe these precautions. Masks (N95-equivalent or ASTM) are required for all attendees (students, faculty, staff, guests). Extra masks will be available in the lobby. Alumni may choose to remove their masks for their photo as they cross the stage. Members of the platform party and speakers may unmask if they so choose. Luncheon Everyone is welcome to attend this event. Unvaccinated individuals may attend but must observe these precautions. Honors Banquet Only individuals who are up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccination may attend this event. Alumni and guests will be asked to show vaccination documentation at the check-in desk. Current students, faculty, and staff should show their Yale IDs with the YSM sticker. All attendees should self-administer a rapid test 30-60 minutes before arriving at the Omni Hotel. Free rapid tests can be picked up at the Adams Center for Musical Arts, M-F 8:30 a.m.–4 p.m. Negative results do not need to be reported to the YSM. All attendees are required to wear an ASTM or N95-equivalent mask whenever they are not actively eating or drinking. Honors Banquet Toggle Only individuals who are up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccination may attend this event. Alumni and guests will be asked to show vaccination documentation at the check-in desk. Current students, faculty, and staff should show their Yale IDs with the YSM sticker. All attendees should self-administer a rapid test 30-60 minutes before arriving at the Omni Hotel. Free rapid tests can be picked up at the Adams Center for Musical Arts, M-F 8:30 a.m.–4 p.m. Negative results do not need to be reported to the YSM. All attendees are required to wear an ASTM or N95-equivalent mask whenever they are not actively eating or drinking. YSM Commencement events Toggle All attendees (students, faculty, staff, and guests) are asked to take a rapid test on the morning of May 23, either before coming to campus or upon arrival. Free rapid tests can be picked up at the Adams Center for Musical Arts. All rapid testing is done on the honor system; negative results do not need to be reported to the YSM. Please note: Only individuals who show proof of being up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccination may attend the post-Commencement luncheon. Monday, May 23, 2022 Breakfast Everyone is welcome to attend this event. Unvaccinated individuals may attend but must eat outside and observe these precautions. All attendees are required to wear an ASTM or N95-equivalent mask whenever they are not actively eating or drinking. Indoor and outdoor dining options will be provided. University Commencement ceremony Everyone is welcome to attend this event. Unvaccinated individuals may attend but must observe these precautions. Masks are recommended. All bags will be checked at gates and no bags larger than 12”x12” will be allowed. School of Music Commencement ceremony Everyone is welcome to attend this event. Unvaccinated individuals may attend but must observe these precautions. Masks (N95-equivalent or ASTM) are required for all attendees (students, faculty, staff, guests). Spare masks will be available in the lobby. Degree recipients may choose to remove their masks to have their photo taken as they cross the stage. Members of the platform party and speakers may unmask if they so choose. Luncheon Only individuals who are up-to-date with their COVID-19 vaccination may attend this event. Every guest will be asked to show their vaccination card at the door. YSM students, faculty, and staff should show their Yale ID with the YSM sticker. Indoor and outdoor dining options will be provided. All attendees are required to wear an ASTM or N95-equivalent mask whenever they are not actively eating or drinking. Morse Recital Hall May 22, 4:00PM Commencement Concert YSM Special Events Details Morse Recital Hall May 21, 8:00PM Yale Glee Club Commencement Concert Yale Glee Club Tickets Study at YSM Tel 203 432-4155 gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu Mailing Address Yale School of Music PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 FedEx, UPS, or DHL Yale School of Music 98 Wall Street New Haven, CT 06511 Reminders Online application opens on September 15 Applications due on December 1 Live auditions (invite only) mid- to late-February Final decision deadline April 15 Quick Links How to Apply Student Groups + Culture Admissions FAQs Follow Us See YSM Directory How to Apply General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use