Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Music Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events Search Department of Music Graduate Programs Breadcrumb Home Graduate Sub Navigation In This Section Graduate Programs Music & Multimedia Composition Musicology & Ethnomusicology Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Graduate Programs Learn about our graduate programs in Musicology and Ethnomusicology, and Music and Multimedia Composition. Music & Multimedia Composition Students in the Ph.D. program in Music and Multimedia Composition produce, analyze, and perform original works that may include the use of electronic music, acoustic composition and sound in combination with video, performance, installation and text. Musicology & Ethnomusicology Brown’s Ph.D. program in Musicology and Ethnomusicology allows students to study music of any kind from several perspectives, within a richly interdisciplinary environment. Faculty Members All faculty are available to work with graduate students, and students can select any faculty that can help with their research goals. We aim to create an environment for scholarship and creative practice in which there are many avenues for guidance, feedback, and exchange. It is often the case that students work closely with several faculty members in addition to their officially designated advisor. Many of our PhD students include faculty from outside the department and outside the University on their preliminary exam committees and on their dissertation committees. View music faculty profiles Terminal MA Program We admit students with the expectation that they will complete the PhD. However, it is technically possible to leave Brown after completing the MA (and in rare cases this may be the recommendation of the faculty). Campus Visit Visits to the Department are welcome, but the two programs vary on how visits can be arranged. Please note that visits are not required and do not increase your chances of admission. Admitted candidates will have an opportunity to visit campus before making a decision on whether to join us at Brown. If you just want to get a feel for the campus and/or you are visiting at a time when classes are not in session, you may participate in a general campus tour without arranging appointments in our department. Musicology and Ethnomusicology The program in Musicology and Ethnomusicology welcomes individual visits. You should schedule your visit for a time when classes are in session (see the university calendar). To increase your chances of meeting with a particular faculty member, you should visit campus on a day when s/he is teaching a graduate seminar and/or holding office hours. Contact the current Director of Graduate Studies for Musicology and Ethnomusicology if you would like to propose a date to visit. Music and Multimedia Composition The Music and Multimedia Composition program will host two virtual Open House events in Fall 2021, on October 22nd and November 12th. Prospective applicants can meet with program faculty and current students to get a more complete picture of the MMC program. We strongly encourage attendance at one of the Open Houses instead of a separate visit. Given the number of inquiries we receive and the need to be as equitable as possible in the application process, we do not schedule individual meetings with faculty. You can register for one of the Open House events here. Questions? Joshua Tucker Associate Professor of Music, Director of Graduate Studies, Musicology & Ethnomusicology Joshua_Tucker@brown.edu 863-3644 Orwig 202 Ed Osborn Associate Professor of Visual Art and Music, Director of Graduate Studies, Music & Multimedia Composition Ed_Osborn@brown.edu List Art Center 521 Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Graduate Programs Open details for Graduate Programs Bookmark this Page