Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | College of Music Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU College of Music Toggle navigation Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Home Ensembles Choral Choral Ensembles Chamber Choir The Graduate Chamber Choir is a select group of singers performing repertoire particularly suitable for a 24- to 42-voice mixed choir, both accompanied and a cappella, under the direction of Dr. Michael Hanawalt. Audition required. Meeting Time: MWF 12:20-1:10 p.m. Online auditions will be accepted through August 24. To arrange an in-person audition, please contact Michael Hanawalt. Audition Online for 2021-22 University Singers Founded in 1948 by Dr. Wiley Housewright, the University Singers is the premier undergraduate touring choir at Florida State University. This auditioned choir consists of students who are majoring in music and other degree programs. During its rich history, University Singers has performed with remarkable musicians including Simon Halsey, Krzysztof Penderecki, Bobby McFerrin, Sir David Willcocks, Aaron Copeland, and the esteemed Atlanta Symphony Conductor, Robert Shaw. Additionally, University Singers has been invited to perform at national and regional conventions of the College Music Society and the American Choral Directors Association, including performances at national conventions in 2007, 2010, and 2013. Recent tours have included performances throughout the Southeastern United States and Europe. In 2015 they performed for the Arecibo 500-year celebration concert in Puerto Rico, and in 2019, members of University Singers participated in a memorial recital at the Normandy American Cemetery as part of activities honoring the 75th anniversary of the D-Day landing. Several distinguished conductors have led the University Singers in its 70-year history, including Walter James, Joseph Flummerfelt, Clayton Krehbiel, and André Thomas. Traditions established by these outstanding conductors have been carried on since 2000 by Kevin Fenton. Audition required. Meeting Time: MTRF 2:30-3:20 p.m. Audition Information for 2022-23 Collegians (Men's Glee Club) Dr. Kevin Fenton is the conductor of The Collegians, FSU Men's Glee Club, which is open to students enrolled in the University. Public concerts are presented throughout the year, including off-campus performances. Students will expand their experiences as they perform a variety of literature, from school songs to classical choral literature. No audition required. Meeting Time: TR 11:00-12:15 p.m. Women's Glee Club The FSU Women's Glee Club long and rich tradition is being continued by Dr. Judy Arthur. This university ensemble is open to all students performs concerts throughout the year, including off-campus performances. No audition required. Meeting Time: MWF 1:25-2:15 p.m. Vocal Jazz Ensemble The Vocal Jazz Ensemble is a select ensemble that performs regularly on and off campus. Audition required. Meeting Time: TR 12:30-1:45 p.m. Choral Union The Choral Union is open to any student enrolled in the University who enjoys singing. Dr. Michael Hanawalt is the director of the Choral Union, which is conducted by graduate students in choral conducting. Choral Union performs accompanied and a cappella repertoire in concerts throughout the year. No audition required. Meeting Time: MWF 11:15-12:05 p.m. Gospel Choir The Gospel Choir is a popular choral ensemble on campus. This ensemble explores both traditional and contemporary Gospel music. The Gospel Choir gives concerts on and off campus and frequently performs at churches throughout the city. No audition is required. Meeting Time: TR 6:30-8:30 p.m. University Chorale/ Tallahassee Community Chorus This ensemble, conducted by Dr. Michael Hanawalt, is a large mixed ensemble that specializes in the music written for a large chorus and orchestra. The chorus is open to all students and the general public. Meeting Time: M 7:30-9:30 p.m. No audition required. (Chorus rehearses at St. John's Episcopal Church, located at the corner of Monroe and Tennessee, between Tennessee and Call streets.) Opera Chorus The Opera Chorus performs in the FSU Opera productions. The chorus is supervised by Professor Douglas Fisher. Audition is required for enrollment. Meeting Time: varies Summer Chorale The Summer University Chorale is open to any student enrolled at the University who enjoys singing. Dr. Kimberly VanWeelden is the director of the University Chorale in Summer B Term. The director of the University Chorale in Summer C term is Dr. Kevin Fenton. It is conducted by graduate students in choral conducting. No audition is required. Meeting Time: TR 5:30-7:30 p.m. Choral Community Outreach Capital Children's Choir The Capital Children's Choir is a community outreach program for children in kindergarten through ninth grade, which is sponsored by the College of Music at FSU. The Director of the Capital Children's Choir program is Dr. Suzanne Rita Byrnes. Graduate and undergraduate music majors at FSU also assist and lead the choirs in various activities. No audition required. Tallahassee Senior Choir (Senior Singers) The Tallahassee Senior Choir is a community outreach program in partnership with the City of Tallahassee senior services. It is directed and conducted by Dr. Kimberly VanWeelden. Graduate Music Therapy students also assist and lead the choir. No audition required. Please enjoy this sample of photographs of some of our choral ensembles. For a selection of performance videos, click here. The Chamber Choir presents a concert in Ruby Diamond Concert Hall in Fall 2017 under the direction of Dr. Kevin Fenton. The Chamber Choir presents a concert in Ruby Diamond Concert Hall in Spring 2017 under the direction of Dr. Kevin Fenton. The Men's and Women's Glee Clubs present a concert in Opperman Music Hall in Spring 2017. × 2019 Spring Tour Sunday, March 17 7:00PM Combined Concert with Birmingham Boy’Choir St. Mark United Methodist Church, 2901 Columbiana Road, Vestavia Hills, AL Monday, March 18 8:15AM Exchange Concert, Hueytown High School, 4881 15th Street Road, Hueytown, AL 35023 12:30PM Exchange Concert with U of A University Chorus University of Alabama 7:30PM Concert St. Andrew’s Cathedral, 305 East Capitol Street, Jackson, Mississippi Tuesday, March 19 11:00AM Exchange Concert with University of Louisiana, Monroe Emy-Lou Biedenharn Recital Hall, Monroe 7:30PM Concert, Broadmoor United Methodist Church, 3715 Youree Drive, Shreveport, LA 71105 Wednesday, March 20 Time TBD Exchange Concert with Layfayette High School, Lafayette, Louisiana Close title-inside title-centered 2 Legacy Sort 1 Legacy Priority 3 FSU College of Music 122 N. Copeland St Tallahassee, FL 32306 Main Office: 850-644-3424 Admissions: 850-644-6102 Box Office: 850-644-6500 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Visit on social media @musicFSU © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media