Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu Admissions Academic Policies Close Academic policies The following language is excerpted from the School of Music Bulletin. Absence from Classes Toggle Students are expected to attend classes, rehearsals, and all scheduled academic events. However, the nature of the music profession makes it possible that extraordinary opportunities may arise in conflict with scheduled classes. Students who wish to petition to be absent from class must complete the Short-Term Absence form found in ArtsVision. Students should submit this form as soon as they are aware of the conflict, but no later than thirty days before the beginning of the proposed absence. When all required signatures have been obtained, the form is to be submitted to the Office of Student Services. Upon approval by the deputy dean, students will be notified of the decision. Students will be denied approval for absences that exceed a total of ten days per year. It is possible that instructors may not extend permission for students to miss class, and may not sign the required form(s). In that case, students may petition directly to the dean or deputy dean for a review of the situation. Student Responsibilities Toggle All students are required to abide by the rules and regulations of the University and the School of Music and are required to attend lessons, class sessions, rehearsals, and appointments arranged for them. Those whose attendance or progress is unsatisfactory, or whose conduct is disruptive, will be reviewed by the deputy dean and may be required to withdraw. Participation in the Yale Philharmonia, Chamber Music, New Music New Haven, Yale Opera, Camerata, and/or Schola Cantorum is a continuing responsibility during the student’s stay at the Yale School of Music, depending on the student’s major. Attendance at all rehearsals and performances is required and takes precedence over all outside commitments. Unexcused absences from an assigned ensemble will be reviewed by the dean’s office under the provisions of the above paragraph. Any student who is absent from studies for more than five consecutive days may be required to present a medical certificate to the dean’s office. The professional training program at the School of Music encourages all students to have occasional work assignments or short-term employment outside the University. Although professional work opportunities are necessary to musicians’ development, outside engagements must be scheduled so as to avoid rehearsal and performance conflicts. International students should consult with the Office of International Students and Scholars to request that employment permission is stated in the immigration documents. Many School of Music students contract for college work-study jobs and are assigned to various duties throughout the School. The School of Music relies on the services provided by these work-study students. Students who accept these positions must meet the responsibilities of the job(s) completely. Students who do not comply with the terms of their work-study commitments may be subject to loss of job and reduction of financial aid. Students are not permitted to schedule teaching, courses, or outside work during the hours reserved for assigned ensembles. Students may not use School of Music facilities for private teaching. Students may be in School of Music facilities only during the hours that the buildings are officially open. During the school term, all students are expected to reside in the New Haven area. The possession or use of explosives, incendiary devices, or weapons on or about the campus is absolutely prohibited. Standards of Behavior Toggle The programs of study in the Yale School of Music reflect the symbiosis of the academic and professional worlds. Consequently, there are unique standards of behavior that apply to this enriched hybrid environment. Students must maintain appropriate standards of behavior for rehearsal and classroom work, which include (but are not limited to): adherence to attendance requirements, preparedness, punctuality, cooperation, and honesty. Students must learn to function in the face of the challenges and uncertainties that are inherent to the training and artistic process (as well as the profession). Students must be prepared to accept appropriate suggestions and criticism in a professional manner. Students must maintain health, diet, and practice habits that will allow them to be alert, responsive, and fully participatory. Students must learn to manage their time and commitments to meet the rigorous demands of the academic and performance schedules. Students must be prepared to reevaluate their technique, consider new approaches to training, and eliminate old habits that interfere with their progress, as guided by their teachers. Students must be able to integrate their unique creative and expressive talents with performance in ensembles. Students must develop and demonstrate the skills and self-discipline necessary to meet the rigors of and be thoroughly prepared for rehearsals and performances. Policy on Academic Integrity + Honesty Toggle As with Yale College and the other professional schools of Yale University, students in the School of Music must uphold the highest standards of intellectual integrity and honesty. Within a university community founded upon the principles of freedom of inquiry and expression, instances of plagiarism and cheating of any kind are particularly serious offenses. Evidence of cheating within the School of Music will be subject to disciplinary action by the dean and/or the deputy dean of student affairs. The School of Music expressly prohibits cheating and plagiarism in any of the following forms: Falsification of documents. Students must not forge or alter or misrepresent or otherwise falsify any transcript, academic record, identification card, or other official document. Examinations. Students must not copy material from other students, nor refer to notes, books, laptop computers, cellular phones, or other programmable electronic devices without written permission from the instructor. It is also prohibited for a student to use a cellular phone to discuss the exam with any other student. Plagiarism. Students must not use material from someone else’s work without properly citing the source of the material. Ideas, opinions, and data, and of course textual passages, whether published or not, should all be properly acknowledged; these may derive from a variety of sources, including conversations, interviews, lectures, and Web sites. Students who violate these principles are subject to penalties, including expulsion. Concert Tickets Toggle The majority of concerts at the Yale School of Music are free and open to the public. These include concerts by the YSM Ensembles, New Music New Haven, Lunchtime Chamber Music, Faculty Artist Series, student recitals, and events presented by the Institute of Sacred Music. YSM students may receive one or two free tickets (at the discretion of the Concert Office) to any ticketed event sponsored by the School of Music. Tickets must be reserved in advance according to the following policy: The concert office will send all students an email approximately one to two weeks before each ticketed event. To reserve your ticket, visit comp-tickets.yale.edu and log in with your Yale credentials. Note: You are responsible for booking your ticket via the online portal. Please do not send an email to make a reservation. On the day of the concert, pickup your ticket at the Sprague Memorial Hall box office during business hours. For concerts in Woolsey and other locations, please see your email for ticket pickup instructions. Tickets not picked up by one half-hour before the concert will be released for sale. If you still wish to attend the concert, you will be required to purchase a ticket at the student rate, subject to availability. If you reserve a ticket but cannot attend the concert, you must contact the concert office to release the ticket. Please send an email to the concert office at concerts@yale.edu before 4 p.m. on concert days, or call or stop by anytime during business hours. Many of our concerts sell out, and holding your ticket may prevent another person from attending. Please be courteous. Reserving tickets and not picking them up may result in a loss of complimentary ticket privileges. Tickets are not transferable. Certain events, such as Yale in New York concerts at Carnegie Hall and Yale Opera’s annual production at the Shubert Theatre, have different policies. You will receive emails from the concert office about the ticket policies for these events. Student Grievances Toggle For complaints of discrimination and harassment that do not relate to gender discrimination or sexual misconduct, students may address a complaint by contacting their Dean’s Designee or the Office of Institutional Equity and Access. For complaints of discrimination and harassment that relate to gender discrimination including sexual misconduct, students may contact the SHARE Center, a Title IX coordinator, the University Wide Committee, the Yale Police Department, or the New Haven Police Department. Read the full policy for student complaint resolution. Drug Policy Toggle As required by federal law, the University is providing this notice to inform you that you will lose your eligibility for federal education loans, grants, and work-study assistance if 1) you are convicted of any federal or state offense involving the possession or sale of a controlled substance, and 2) the conduct for which you are convicted occurred during a period of enrollment for which you were receiving federal financial aid. This loss of eligibility will start on the date of your conviction and will last for the following periods: If convicted of an offense involving the possession of a controlled substance: First offense: One year Second offense: Two years Third offense: Indefinite If convicted of an offense involving the sale of a controlled substance: First offense: Two years Second offense: Indefinite Resources on Sexual Misconduct Toggle Yale University is committed to maintaining and strengthening an educational, employment, and living environment founded on civility and mutual respect. Sexual misconduct is antithetical to the standards and ideals of our community, and it is a violation of Yale policy and the disciplinary regulations of Yale College and the graduate and professional schools. Sexual misconduct incorporates a range of behaviors including sexual assault, sexual harassment, intimate partner violence, stalking, voyeurism, and any other conduct of a sexual nature that is nonconsensual, or has the purpose or effect of threatening, intimidating, or coercing a person. Violations of Yale’s Policy on Teacher-Student Consensual Relations also constitute sexual misconduct. Sexual activity requires consent, which is defined as positive, unambiguous, and voluntary agreement to engage in specific sexual activity throughout a sexual encounter. Yale aims to eradicate sexual misconduct through education, training, clear policies, and serious consequences for violations of these policies. In addition to being subject to University disciplinary action, many forms of sexual misconduct are prohibited by Connecticut and federal law and may lead to civil liability or criminal prosecution. Yale provides a range of services, resources, and mechanisms for victims of sexual misconduct. The resources for undergraduate, graduate, and professional school students are described here: http://smr.yale.edu Students who have concerns regarding the issue of sexual misconduct may discuss them with Stefanie Parkyn who serves at the Title IX coordinator for the School of Music, she may be reached at stefanie.parkyn@yale.edu or 203 432-4160. Privacy Policy Toggle Please visit the following links: Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act Yale University Statement on the Disclosure of Directory Information Request to Withhold Directory Information Yale University’s Nondiscrimination/Title IX Statements Toggle The University is committed to basing judgments concerning the admission, education, and employment of individuals upon their qualifications and abilities and affirmatively seeks to attract to its faculty, staff, and student body qualified persons of diverse backgrounds. In accordance with this policy and as delineated by federal and Connecticut law, Yale does not discriminate in admissions, educational programs, or employment against any individual on account of that individual’s sex, race, color, religion, age, disability, status as a protected veteran, or national or ethnic origin; nor does Yale discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression. University policy is committed to affirmative action under law in employment of women, minority group members, individuals with disabilities, and protected veterans. Inquiries concerning these policies may be referred to Valarie Stanley, Director of the Office for Equal Opportunity Programs, 221 Whitney Avenue, 3rd Floor, 203 432-0849. For additional information, see www.yale.edu/equalopportunity. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from sex discrimination in educational programs and activities at institutions that receive federal financial assistance. Questions regarding Title IX may be referred to the University’s Title IX Coordinator, Stephanie Spangler, at 203 432-4446 or at titleix@yale.edu, or to the U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 8th Floor, Five Post Office Square, Boston MA 02109-3921. Telephone: 617 289-0111, Fax: 617 289-0150, TDD: 800 877-8339, or Email: ocr.boston@ed.gov. School of Music Bulletin view bulletin Study at YSM Tel 203 432-4155 gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu Mailing Address Yale School of Music PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 FedEx, UPS, or DHL Yale School of Music 98 Wall Street New Haven, CT 06511 Reminders Online application opens on September 15 Applications due on December 1 Live auditions (invite only) mid- to late-February Final decision deadline April 15 Quick Links How to Apply Student Groups + Culture Admissions FAQs Follow Us See YSM Directory How to Apply General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use