Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu Admissions Frequently Asked Questions learn more contact us Close Updated February 7, 2022 Below you will find answers to frequently asked questions about our degrees and programs, prescreening requirements, application, auditions, and more. If your questions are not answered here, please contact the School of Music’s Admissions Office. Live Auditions Toggle If I am invited to audition, is it essential that I attend a live audition? Yes. The live audition is a fundamental part of the School of Music application process. Will auditions take place in-person or virtually? In light of the surge of the omicron variant and the tightening health precautions mandated by Yale University, all Audition Week activities will take place virtually this year. Please refer to Audition Week section under "Prescreening Repertoire + Live Auditions" section on our How to Apply page for more information. I have not yet received a passing TOEFL score, but I was invited to audition. Should I attend my live audition? Yale School of Music accepts TOEFL scores from tests taken by March 1 of that application cycle. If you will be able to take the TOEFL again before March 1 and feel confident that you will attain a passing score, you should attend your live audition. I have been invited to audition and I have only submitted unofficial transcripts so far. Should I request that official transcripts be sent to Yale School of Music? Yes, please have official transcripts from any institutions of higher learning you have attended sent to us before coming to the live audition. See above for information on where to send official transcripts. Do I have to use an ethernet cable or can I use WiFi? We strongly recommend that you establish a hard-wired (connected directly to your router or modem) internet connection using an ethernet cable. Is it possible to buy an ethernet cable online and how much would they cost? Yes, many online retailers (such as Amazon) offer a wide range of ethernet cables at very affordable prices. How can I connect an ethernet cable when my external mic takes up the only available port? Depending on your device, you may need to purchase a separate dongle to accommodate connecting both your external microphone and ethernet cable. Can I use a mobile hotspot? No. We strongly recommend that you establish a hard-wired (connected directly to your router or modem) internet connection using an ethernet cable. What are the required connection speeds? The minimum speed requirement is 10Mbps download, 10Mbps upload (you can test your speed here.) Can I use a smartphone for my Zoom audition? No, we recommend that you use a computer in order to enable High Fidelity Music Mode for a clearer, more accurate representation of your sound. This mode is not supported on smartphones or tablets. Instructions on High Fidelity Music Mode can be found here. Are the High Fidelity Music Mode settings permanent once set, or do I need to change settings again for each meeting? The High Fidelity Music Mode settings are linked to your account, so they should remain set for future meetings, but we recommend that you double check before you enter your audition Zoom room (especially if you use the account on more than one device). However, you must remember to turn on your Original Sound each time you enter a new meeting. I do not see an option for High Fidelity Music Mode. How do I enable it? Make sure you are using the most recent version of the Zoom desktop client. Instructions on High Fidelity Music Mode can be found here. Do I need to use an external microphone? We strongly recommend that you use an external microphone for your audition. While suitable for speech, the internal microphone in your tablet or computer will compress natural dynamics and could distort the sound of your performance, yielding low-quality audio. For more information, see our equipment guide here. What kind of external microphone is best? For more information, see our equipment guide here. Can I use my laptop webcam? Yes, your laptop webcam is suitable for the audition. An external webcam is not necessary. How do I know where to place my external microphone? This will depend on your audition room setup. To find the most optimal location, try different configurations by recording yourself on Zoom. Why should I wear headphones or earbuds? We recommend that you wear headphones or earbuds during your audition to avoid hearing the echo of the judges’ voices. However, this is absolutely optional and we ask that you prioritize your comfort. Bluetooth vs wired headphones? Either is fine, but Bluetooth may be more comfortable while playing due to the lack of cables. How can we hear our own sound if we wear earbuds? Some students choose to only wear 1 earbud, but above all, your own comfort is key. Try with one, or both, but if it is too distracting, you do not need to wear them. I find it difficult to play with headphones. Do I need to use them? No, headphones/earbuds are optional. If possible, wear them during your audition to avoid hearing the echo of the judges’ voices. Choose a type that does not disrupt your set up. Make sure you can comfortably hear the accuracy of your performance. Can I use a virtual background? No, please do not use a virtual background so that you remain fully visible at all times. COVID-19 Toggle Will you be accepting applications for Fall 2022 admission? Yes, we will be accepting applications. Please refer to our How to Apply page for requirements and guidelines. Have any dates or deadlines changed for the Fall 2022 application? No, our dates and deadlines have remained the same. Applications open on September 15 and the deadline to apply is December 1. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, I am unable to book a professional recording session for my prescreening materials. What should I do? We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. We encourage applicants to utilize self-recording devices that are available to them. It is recommended to submit recordings/videos with the highest audio quality possible given the applicant’s circumstances. Refer to the “Prescreening Resources” section at the bottom of our How to Apply page for helpful guidance. Specific questions regarding prescreening substitutions should be directed to gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu. Should I play with a pianist, when applicable, in my prescreening recordings? We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and encourage applicants to prioritize health, safety, and comfort. Will auditions take place in-person or virtually? In light of the surge of the omicron variant and the tightening health precautions mandated by Yale University, all Audition Week activities will take place virtually this year. Please refer to Audition Week section under "Prescreening Repertoire + Live Auditions" section on our How to Apply page for more information. ETS testing sites remain shut down. How do I fulfill the TOEFL requirement? Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have extended testing options to include TOEFL iBT Home Edition and TOEFL ITP Plus for China. Official score reports must be sent to us directly from ETS using our institution reporting code 3992. Do I have to submit a GRE score? No. As of March 1, 2021, applicants to the composition department are no longer required to take the Graduate Record Exam (GRE) General Test. With this update, the GRE is no longer required of any applicant in any area of focus. Degrees and Programs Toggle I have a high school diploma. To which degree programs at YSM am I eligible to apply? Students with a high school diploma are eligible to apply for the certificate in performance and the artist diploma programs. Please note that the School of Music does not offer a bachelor of music degree. The Yale School of Music is a graduate professional school within Yale University. High school seniors are eligible to apply to the B.A./M.M. program, a joint degree program offered by Yale College and the School of Music. I have a bachelor’s degree. To which degree programs at the School of Music am I eligible to apply? Students with a bachelor’s degree are eligible to apply for the master of music and the artist diploma programs. I have a master of music degree. To which degree programs at the School of Music am I eligible to apply? Students with a master of music in the same major as the one for which they are applying are eligible to apply for the master of musical arts and the doctor of musical arts degree programs. They are also eligible to apply for the artist diploma program. I have a doctor of musical arts. To which degree programs at the School of Music am I eligible to apply? There are no programs at the School of Music to which someone with a D.M.A. is eligible to apply. Does the School of Music offer a double major? No. An applicant may choose to apply to more than one program at the School of Music. However, students can ultimately only pursue a degree in one area. I am already a student at Yale College but am interested in the B.A./M.M. program. Is it still possible for me to apply? Yes, Yale College students interested in the B.A./M.M. program should speak with their private lesson instructor and academic advisor at the beginning of their third year. The application timeline for the B.A./M.M. program is the same as for all other School of Music degree programs, with an initial deadline of December 1 and auditions by invitation in February 2022. I would like to major in voice, composition, or conducting. Am I eligible to apply for the B.A./M.M. program? No, the B.A./M.M. program is intended for instrumentalists. I am interested in the B.A./M.M. program but want to pursue a bachelor of science at Yale College. Is that possible? Yes, B.A./M.M. students can pursue a bachelor of arts and/or a bachelor of science for their undergraduate degree at Yale. For the B.A./M.M. program, can I major in something unrelated to music for my bachelor’s degree? Yes, B.A./M.M. students can select any major for their undergraduate degree. Is there an additional fee for participating in the B.A./M.M. program? No, there is no additional cost to participating in the B.A./M.M. program. Program participants pay the cost to attend Yale College for four years. Yale College is generous with financial aid for students with demonstrated need, and applications for financial aid are submitted with the undergraduate application. The Yale School of Music is tuition-free, making the fifth year of the B.A./M.M. program tuition-free. YSM also offers a stipend to its students. How competitive is admission to the B.A./M.M.? There is no set number of students to be admitted to the B.A./M.M. program each year. However, applicants should be aware that they are essentially auditioning for a graduate music school and are expected to be on par with those applying for our graduate-level degree programs. Prescreening Requirements and Resources Toggle Requirements Should I play pieces from memory in my prescreening recordings? It is not required that applicants play pieces from memory in their prescreening recordings (unless otherwise noted on the prescreening repertoire list). Should the prescreening recording be filmed in one continuous take? Each movement, excerpt, or piece should be filmed in one continuous take. However, many applicants upload each component of the prescreening requirements as a separate video. Should I play with a pianist, when applicable, in my prescreening recordings? We recognize the challenges and limitations imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic, and encourage applicants to prioritize health, safety, and comfort. How do the prescreening requirements vary based on which degree program I am applying for? The prescreening requirements do not vary unless otherwise noted on the list of prescreening repertoire. Note: the prescreening requirements are the same for students applying for the B.A./M.M. program. Recording Resources Can I use a smartphone to record my prescreening video? Yes, video can be captured with a smartphone, however audio should be recorded with a higher quality device than a smartphone. External stereo microphones paired with smartphones are recommended. What recording equipment do you recommend? Please view our suggested equipment list for a detailed description of recommended equipment Can I edit my recordings? No post processing or editing is allowed for prescreening videos. Fading in, out, and normalizing volume are accepted and encouraged, but any manipulation of the sound or performance is not permitted. Can I use pre-recorded piano? Pre-recorded piano is acceptable if necessary. To accomplish this, you may record yourself playing along with headphones and overlay the piano track after the fact, or you may have a speaker in the room with you and record both your performance and the pre-recorded accompaniment. What file format should I be using? Video files should be in either .mp4 or .mov (48k audio/1080p video) Should I have a text in the beginning of my video or slate each video with my name and piece? It’s not necessary to slate your videos or have any text on screen, but please name your video files to include the piece title and date it was recorded ex. FlorencePrice_ImpromptuNo1_Oct5_2021.mp4. Should I have separate files for each piece, or one long file with everything? It is recommended that each piece and excerpt be separated into individual files and uploaded separately. Can I upload my files to YouTube instead of the application? Yes, you may include a link to a video instead of uploading it directly to our form. It is recommended you check your privacy settings on each video and make sure they are not publicly listed. Application Requirements Toggle English is not my first language, but I have been living in the United States for six years or more. Do I have to submit a TOEFL score? You may request a TOEFL waiver if you have studied at English-speaking institutions full-time for six or more years. Please note that TOEFL waiver requests are evaluated on a case-by-case basis and are not guaranteed for applicants who have studied six or more years at English-speaking institutions. Submitted transcripts must show strong academic performance and significant coursework in areas other than music performance. For more about TOEFL waiver requests, see the How to Apply page. ETS testing sites remain shut down. How do I fulfill the TOEFL requirement? Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have extended testing options to include TOEFL iBT Home Edition and TOEFL ITP Plus for China. Official score reports must be sent to us directly from ETS using our institution reporting code 3992. Can I submit IELTS scores or scores from another English proficiency test instead of the TOEFL? No. We only accept TOEFL scores. For the internet-based test, we require a minimum score of 80 for A.D. candidates and 86 for all other degree programs. Do you accept MyBest scores or TOEFL Essentials Test? No. We do not accept MyBest scores or Essentials Test. I am a high school senior interested in the B.A./M.M. program. Can I apply to Yale College Single Choice Early Action? Yes. In order to apply to the B.A./M.M. program as a high school senior, a student must submit separate applications to Yale College and the Yale School of Music. These application processes are completely independent of each other. Therefore, students should feel free to apply to Yale College either Regular Decision or Single Choice Early Action. There is only one School of Music application deadline (December 1). Note that School of Music decisions for B.A./M.M. program applicants will not be released until early April. Can I apply to more than one degree at the School of Music? Yes, applicants can apply for up to two degree programs for the same instrument or area. There is no additional cost. Applicants will only be accepted to one degree program. Can I apply for more than one instrument or area? Yes, applicants can apply for more than one instrument or area. However, should an applicant be accepted for more than one instrument or area, the applicant will have to choose one. Are all application materials due by December 1? Yes, all application materials (including recommendation letters and TOEFL scores where applicable) are due by December 1. Test scores, which are mailed from ETS, should be on their way to us by December 1. Can my recommenders send in recommendation letters before I submit my application? Yes. As soon as you enter your recommenders’ contact information into your application, they will receive an email with a link through which they can upload their letters. We recommend applicants open an application early and input their recommenders’ information so they have plenty of time to submit letters by December 1. Where should I have official transcripts sent? Mailing address Office of Admissions Yale School of Music PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 FedEx, UPS, or DHL Office of Admissions Yale School of Music 98 Wall Street New Haven, CT 06511 Email gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu I am a pianist or violinist. When do I note my professor preference? If you are invited to audition, you will receive a form with your assigned audition time. Please fill that out any time before the end of audition week in order for your preference to be taken into account. Composition Applicants Toggle Do I have to submit a GRE score? No. As of March 1, 2021, applicants to the composition department are no longer required to take the Graduate Record Exam (GRE) General Test. With this update, the GRE is no longer required of any applicant in any area of focus. Department of Music Toggle Is the Department of Music the same as the School of Music? Although both the Department of Music and the School of Music offer courses and programs of interest to any musician, they are not the same. The Yale School of Music is one of Yale University’s 12 graduate-professional schools with degree programs in instrumental (including piano) performance, voice performance, composition, and conducting. Degrees offered by the School of Music include the master of music, master of musical arts, doctor of musical arts, artist diploma, and certificate in performance. The Department of Music offers an undergraduate music major (B.A.) and graduate programs (M.A., Ph.D.) in music theory and musicology. Can I take classes in the Department of Music if I am a student at the School of Music? Yes. The Department of Music offers many courses relevant to School of Music students. Study at YSM Tel 203 432-4155 gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu Mailing Address Yale School of Music PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 FedEx, UPS, or DHL Yale School of Music 98 Wall Street New Haven, CT 06511 Reminders Online application opens on September 15 Applications due on December 1 Live auditions (invite only) mid- to late-February Final decision deadline April 15 Quick Links How to Apply Student Groups + Culture Admissions FAQs Follow Us See YSM Directory How to Apply General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use