Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | College of Music Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU College of Music Toggle navigation Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Home Programs Performance Strings Strings Alex Jimenez - Coordinator of Strings Our success is demonstrated by our many graduates employed by professional ensembles and universities. The String Area includes study in violin, viola, cello, bass, harp, and guitar. A distinguished faculty of artist-teachers is dedicated to the multi-faceted development of each and every student, regardless of major, in a rigorous, yet nurturing, environment. It is a guiding principle of the College of Music that high performance standard form the basis of every degree program in music. Graduates of the string area have gone onto jobs with professional orchestras, colleges, and universities throughout the United States and abroad, are highly successful music educators, and have won numerous national and international competitions. Students enjoy the camaraderie of and collaboration with outstanding string players from throughout the world. Highly talented string players who pursue non-performance degrees study alongside performance majors and participate in all performance opportunities, including chamber music, orchestral and operatic performance, and student-initiated performances. A comprehensive chamber music program is coached by all members of the string faculty. Students are exposed to nearly 600 performances each year by students, faculty, and guest artists. A well-rounded curriculum, outstanding teachers, myriad outstanding performance opportunities, and accomplished student colleagues makes the FSU string program one of the finest in the country. Faculty List Alumni/Student Achievements Degree Programs Bachelor of Music in Performance Orchestral Strings Guitar Harp Master of Music in Performance Orchestral Strings Guitar Harp Doctor of Music in Performance (Any Stringed Instrument) Specialized Studies Programs* Performance * - For degree-seeking College of Music students only Guests and Masterclasses Learn More Program Highlights Learn More Ensembles Learn More Faculty Gallery Explore Our Community Explore Media Explore × Recent Guests and Masterclasses The College of Music and the String Area regularly host leading performers and teachers as guest presenters. Recent guests have included: New Zealand Quartet Badke Quartet Joshua Bell Roberto Diaz eighth blackbird Lynn Harrell Jupiter Quartet Yo-Yo Ma Patricia McClarty Itzhak Perlman Gil Shaham Turtle Island String Quartet × Alumni and Student Achievements Our current students and alumni enjoy success in performing and teaching roles throughout the southeast and across the country. Many of our current undergraduate and graduate students perform in orchestras in Florida, Georgia, and Alabama. title-inside title-centered 2 Legacy Sort 1 Legacy Priority 20 FSU College of Music 122 N. Copeland St Tallahassee, FL 32306 Main Office: 850-644-3424 Admissions: 850-644-6102 Box Office: 850-644-6500 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Visit on social media @musicFSU © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media