Skip to content University of Washington Links UW Home College of Arts & Sciences ArtsUW Directories Maps MyUW University of Washington School of Music Menu Search Search form Search Log in Apply People Faculty Staff Graduate Students Hire a Musician Alumni Programs & Courses Admissions & Auditions Undergraduate Degrees Graduate Degrees Non-Majors, Access, & Public Learning Courses Study Abroad Summer Study Performances & Events Current Season Ticketing Venues & Parking Past Seasons Events Calendar Research Centers & Labs Archives & Collections Current Projects Publications & Recordings Student Work Fields of Interest Ensembles Auditions Early Music & Baroque Chamber Music Jazz Modern & Contemporary Orchestras Percussion Vocal Bands Other Ensembles News Recent News News Archive Newsletter Mailing Lists Resources Advising Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Scholarships & Financial Aid Internships & Careers Student Advisory Council Music Library Room Reservations & Event Production Faculty & Staff Resources About From the Director History Areas of Study Stay Connected Support Us Contact Us You are here Home › Events Calendar › UW Symphony and Concerto Competition Winners Friday, June 3, 2022 - 7:30pm Meany Hall—Katharyn Alvord Gerlich Theater $10 all tickets Buy Tickets ArtsUW Covid-19 Safety Protocols David Alexander Rahbee conducts the UW Symphony and winners of the 2022 Concerto Competition in an end-of-year performance. Performing with the orchestra are Hannah Chou, violin (Korngold Violin Concerto, Mvt 1); Megan Hutchison, flute (Nielsen Flute Concerto, mvt 1); and HyeYeon Kim, piano (Chopin Piano Concerto No.1, Mvt. 1). Masks are recommended in all indoor spaces. Proof of vaccination remains a requirement for everyone 12 and over at Meany Hall and all ArtsUW Ticket Office events, including Meany Center, DXARTS, Dance Department, School of Drama, and School of Music. Individuals unable to be fully vaccinated, including people with a medical or religious exemption, must have proof of a negative provider-administered COVID-19 test (taken within 72 hours of the performance). UW staff will check for proof of vaccination and negative COVID tests at the doors as a condition of entry. Proof of negative test result must come from a test provider, a laboratory or a health care provider. Home or self-administered tests will not be accepted. Details of these policies and procedures are at: https://artsevents.washington.edu/covid-protocols Program University of Washington Symphony Orchestra with Concerto Competition Winners David Alexander Rahbee, Music Director and Conductor Rylan Virnig and Daren Weissfisch, Assistant Conductors Overture to Idomeneo, K.366: Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756-1791) with concert ending by Carl Reinecke (1824-1910) Flute Concerto: Carl Nielsen (1865-1931) Allegro moderato Megan Hutchison, flute Piano Concerto, E minor, op.11: Frédéric Chopin (1810-1849) Allegro maestoso HyeYeon Kim, piano - Intermission- Violin Concerto, D major, op.35: Erich Wolfgang Korngold (1897-1957) Moderato nobile Hannah Chou, violin Adagietto from Symphony No. 5: Gustav Mahler (1860-1911) Emperor Waltzes, Op. 437: Johann Strauss, Jr. (1825-1899) Program Notes Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart composed Idomeneo 1781, and it was premiered in Munich only a couple of days after his 25th birthday. Classified as an opera seria with French elements, it was based on a text by the French playwright and librettist Antoine Danchet and composed on commission for the Bavarian court. As an opera composer, Mozart was incredibly concerned with dramatic flow, often making choices in his compositions that would highlight the drama onstage. This idea followed in the footsteps of Gluck, who twenty years earlier had revolutionized the world of opera by cutting through the long indulgent aria segments and instead focusing on the ways an orchestra could enhance the drama of the libretto. This style of opera also included a heightened role for the chorus and brought ballet into greater focus. The original ending of this overture is notable among Mozart’s opera overtures for ending quietly and in a different key than the beginning, as opposed to a resounding finish in the home key. This subtle ending lends itself well to the sense of drama Mozart tries to create, as it transitions to the first scene where one of the main characters of the opera, Ilia, is bemoaning the fate of her and her people. Carl Reinecke was born in 1824, and was a German composer, teacher, pianist, and conductor. Reinecke was well- respected among his contemporaries; taught by Mendelssohn, Schumann, and Liszt, as well as being teacher to Edvard Grieg and other well-known composers. A prolific composer in his own right, he also wrote a multitude of cadenzas for concertos, largely by Beethoven and Mozart. -Katie Tschida Danish composer Carl Nielsen was known for his diverse musical output and unique compositional style, created through his use of modal ambiguity and tonal digression. He studied violin and composition at the Copenhagen Conservatory and led a successful career performing and conducting, but is most well known for his compositions for wind instruments. He composed Flute Concerto in 1926 for flutist Holger Gilbert Jespersen. Nielsen met Jespersen through the Copenhagen Wind Quintet, and Nielsen was so inspired by the quintet’s sound that he vowed to compose a concerto for each member inspired by their personalities. Unfortunately, Nielsen only finished the flute and clarinet concerti before his passing, but his Flute Concerto won him praise from critics and remains a staple of the flute repertoire. Jespersen premiered the piece in 1926, with a temporary ending that Nielsen later rewrote the following year. The concerto personifies Jespersen so accurately that those who knew him claim that new aspects of his personality can be discovered through each hearing, even though Nielsen did not consult with Jespersen on the work. It also features interesting dialogues between the flute and the clarinet, timpani, and bass trombone, which is used as a foil to the flute solo. – Megan Hutchinson Frédéric Chopin, at the age of twenty, premiered his Piano Concerto in E minor, Op. 11, dedicated to Friedrich Kalkbrenner. This, his third public concert at the National Theatre in Warsaw, was the last concert he would perform in Poland. It was the first of Chopin’s two piano concertos to be published, and was therefore given the designation of Piano Concerto ‘No. 1’ at the time of publication, even though it was actually written after the one that was later published ‘No. 2’. The first movement opens with a full orchestra presenting a vigorous, sturdy theme before the first main idea in E Minor in the strings. The lyrical second theme in E major is also led by the strings. The orchestra moves to a rhapsodic section, building suspense and dominance over three minutes leading up to the start of the piano solo. The pianist presents the first theme in E minor and then the second theme cast in the parallel E major. The development section focuses on the first thematic idea, extending by decorative scales and chords. Even though it does not follow a highly elaborated development of key modulation, the wind supports this beautifully and horns add exquisite richness to the melodies. The recapitulation begins with the orchestra alone; the pianist has a second theme which finally modulates upward to G major. The scherzo-like coda reverts to E minor, and the movement ends with a piano section, followed by a sudden forte E minor chord at the end. - HyeYeon Kim Erich Wolfgang Korngold was a revolutionary composer who brought the world of cinematic sound to classical concert music. Korngold grew up in Vienna and as a child prodigy, composed his first work, a piece for piano and solo voices, at the age of 9. It was very well received and led him to a meeting with Gustav Mahler who deemed him a genius. Since that encounter, Korngold maintained a close relationship with Mahler and even dedicated the Violin Concerto to Mahler’s wife, Alma Mahler. In 1934, Korngold was offered a job in Hollywood to arrange the music for Max Reinhardt’s film version of A Midsummer’s Night Dream. This event served as a catalyst for Korngold’s career in film music, scoring for big picture companies like Warner Bros in Los Angeles, where he lived for the remainder of his life. After the end of World War II, Korngold made the decision to return to composing concert music and the Violin Concerto was the first of his new era of concert pieces. It was originally suggested by and written for violinist Bronisław Huberman but due to unforeseen circumstances, the piece was ultimately premiered by the great virtuoso, Jascha Heifetz, in 1947 in St. Louis. The Violin Concerto borrows several themes from Korngold’s past works, a memento from his legacy in the film industry. Specifically, the first movement, Moderato nobile, has sections that are adapted from the films, Another Dawn and Juarez. It opens with an expansive melody and finishes with a quick flashy tongue twister for the fingers, taking the audience through an exhilarating ride filled with virtuosity. – Hannah Chou Preceding the composition of his fifth symphony, Gustav Mahler suffered a hemorrhage that almost killed him. This near-death experience caused Mahler’s inspiration in his compositions to be turned towards the grave, as he began work on his Kindertotenlieder (Songs on the Death of Children) in 1901. Later that same year, Mahler met the woman who would become his wife, Alma Schindler, after he had drafted the first two movements as well as the scherzo. This movement, which is the fourth movement of the symphony, was written as a love letter to her. As a love letter, it makes references both to the love-glance leitmotif from Wagner’s Tristan und Isolde and his own setting of Friedrich Rückert’s “Ich bin der Welt”. The end of the movement features this invocation from the violin part, as it echoes the ending of Mahler’s song using the same motif as accompanies the last line in its original setting - “In meinem Lieben, in meinem Lied!” or “In my love, in my song!”. As his first symphony without any singing or programmatic elements, it marked a turning point in Mahler’s symphonic works. In its original premiere this movement was not received well by critics. Despite this, it was not unpopular for long, as the Adagietto is heard prominently in concert halls around the world. Although he started composition in 1901, and the work premiered in 1904, Mahler did not finish revising the symphony until 1911 - the year of his death. -Katie Tschida Johann Strauss, Jr. composed the Emperor Waltzes to commemorate the visit between Austrian emperor Franz Josef and German Kaiser Wilhelm II, premiering on October 21, 1889. Originally titled “Hand in Hand” as a representation of the ‘hand in friendship’ extended from Austria to Germany, the title of Emperor Waltz allowed for neutrality by appeasing both rulers. The waltz was popularized in Vienna largely by Josef Lanner, who recruited Strauss’s father to his orchestra. Due to the closeness of the dancers who performed the waltz, it was originally viewed as indecent by members of the upper class. Strauss was known as the “Waltz King”, inheriting the title from his father; however, his compositions eclipsed his fathers fame. This waltz, as well as his Blue Danube waltz, have immortalized Strauss in both the concert halls and popular culture. -Katie Tschida University of Washington Symphony Orchestra David Alexander Rahbee, Music Director and Conductor Rylan Virnig and Daren Weissfisch, Assistant Conductors Flute & Piccolo Katelyn Campbell Biochemistry, Applied Music (Orchestral Instruments) Stephanie Chuang Computer Science/Cinema and Media Studies Cassie Lear DMA Woodwinds Emily Lee Music Elizabeth Nilles Biology/Music minor Oboe Kamil Tarnawczyk Music Helena Potter Garfield High School senior English horn Kamil Tarnawczyk Music Clarinet Megan Rideout Redeker Music Performance Khang Zhie Phoong Computer Science Bassoon Julien Tsang Law Accounting Masters Pascal Lovre Chemistry Parker Chu Biochemistry, Music minor Horn Anna Perry Music (Brass) Nicholas Hidy Music (Brass) Kiyoshi Colon Chemistry Thomas Dylan Bioengineering Trumpet Greg Smith DMA Trumpet Jennifer Stump Pre Sciences Carter Archuleta Physics, Astronomy Trombone Neal Muppidi Physics, Music Sean Grimm Statistics Bass Trombone Clayton Thomas Electrical Engineering Harp Kelly Hou Informatics, Music Performance Celesta Chiao-Yu Wu Piano Performance Timpani Sophie Schmidt Percussion Performance Percussion Cyrus Grahan History Ryan Baker Music Violins Christine Chu Communication, Violin Performance Constance Aguocha Violin Performance Dalma Ashby Violin Performance Sejon Ashby Biochemistry Ido Avnon Computer Science, Education Kelly Chiang Psychology, Marketing Kellen Cribbs Music Education, History Teela Damian Music Rylan Ferron-Jones Engineering Undeclared Nicholas Gjording Biology (Molecular Cellular & Developmental) Terri Ji Music Theory Kara Johnson Pre Major (Arts & Sciences) Allison Kam Pre Sciences, Linguistics Meiqi Liang Pre Public Health Audrey Lin Computer Science Paige Michal Music Education Hannah Peña-Ruiz Music (Strings) Bianca Ponnekanti Physics, Astronomy Sean Sasaki Music Selina Siow Music (Strings) Olivia Wang Computer Science, Music Ethan Wu Biochemistry Viola Elena Allen Applied Music (String Instruments), Biochemistry Eugene Chin Applied Music (String Instruments) Nathan Hatch Robotics Angielena Luong Pre Sciences Brian Pham Biochemistry Mari Morikawa Biology (Physiology) Meghna Shankar Computer Science, Physics Kareena Sikka Biology (Molecular, Cellular, & Developmental) Katie Tschida Music Randy Zhang Computer Science Violoncello Bashir Abdel-Fattah Mathematics Ryan Friesz Pre Sciences Savannah Helming Cello Performance Breanna Humphrey Pre Sciences Sarah Johnson Music Youngbin (Young) Kim Cello Performance Gene Liu Engineering Bennett Olsen Geography: Data Science Cameron Ray Nursing Russell Sam Pre Sciences Amanda Song Business Administration Ignacio (Nacho) Tejeda Mathematics Bass Alejandra (Ale) Heringer English Nick Masters Guest musician Ethan Park Pre Sciences Ramon Salumbides Alumnus/guest musician Biographies Megan Hutchison is completing a Master of Music degree in Flute Performance at the University of Washington, studying with Donna Shin. She has been the teaching assistant for the UW Modern Music Ensemble, select music education classes, and flute performances classes. Megan also performs as principal flutist in the UW Symphony Orchestra and UW Wind Ensemble. Recognized for her solo performances, she has won prizes at the Montana, Florida, and Austin (TX) Flute Association’s Young Artist Competitions. She was a featured performer at the 2020 National Flute Association Convention and the 2020 Texas Music Educator’s Association Convention. Megan received her Bachelor of Music in Flute Performance at the University of North Texas where she studied with Terri Sundberg and James Scott. In her free time, Megan enjoys baking Swiss roll cakes and spending time with her cats. HyeYeon Kim is a doctoral student of Musical Arts in Piano Performance at the University of Washington under the guidance of Craig Sheppard. She received her Bachelor of Music degree from Yonsei University in South Korea, followed by a Master of Music degree from New England Conservatory in Boston under Victor Rosenbaum, then the Artist Diploma on full scholarship at the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music under Soyeon Kate Lee. Her accomplishments include prizes in competitions including the Metropolitan International Piano Competition, Texas International Piano Competition, Memphis International Piano Competition, Universal Music Competition, and Seoul Philharmonic Competition. Recently, she was selected as a finalist for the Frances Walton Competition, and she will compete on June 4th, 2022 in the final round. She has performed as a soloist at venues such as Alvin Johnson/J.M. Kaplan Hall in New York, Jordan Hall at New England Conservatory in Boston, Cypress Hall at California State University Northridge, Youngsan Art Hall in Seoul, and the Palazzo del Vignola with the Napolinova Orchestra in Todi, Italy. She also presented at masterclasses for legendary pianists including Richard Goode, John Perry, Julian Martin, Antonio Pompa-Baldi, and Gary Graffman. As an avid chamber musician, she performed extensively both with instrumentalists and vocalists. She won the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music Chamber Music Competition as a piano trio member. Ms. Kim is also an experienced teacher and performer within her community. She maintains a private teaching studio. She was recently appointed a Director of the Creative Keyboards Piano Camp at the Music Works Northwest in Bellevue this summer. As a community service, she has done volunteer performances at venues such as University House Wallingford and she will be doing an additional volunteer performance at Empress Senior Living in downtown Seattle. Taiwanese-American violinist Hannah Chou began her musical studies at the age of five in Fremont, California. A graduate of Northwestern University, she received a Bachelor of Music in Violin Performance and Music Cognition and went on to receive her Master of Music in Violin Performance at UCLA on a full scholarship. Chou is currently a doctoral student and serves as a teaching assistant at the University of Washington. Notable mentors include Ronald Patterson, Varty Manouelian, Yuan-Qing Yu, Mikhail Kopelman, and John Chisholm. In her orchestral career, Chou has served principal positions and performed in various ensembles such as the Sarasota Music Festival, National Repertory Orchestra, Aspen Music Festival, Civic Orchestra of Chicago, and New World Symphony. As an enthusiastic chamber musician, Chou joined the VEM Quartet, UCLA’s graduate string quartet in residence, for the 2019-2021 season and was featured in a series of mini documentaries. Along with performing, she shares a passion for teaching and enjoys teaching students of all ages. David Alexander Rahbee David Alexander Rahbee is currently Senior Artist in Residence at the University of Washington School of Music in Seattle, where he is Director of Orchestral Activities and Chair of Orchestral Conducting. He is Music Director and Conductor of the University of Washington Symphony Orchestra and founder of the UW Campus Philharmonia Orchestras. He is a recipient of the American-Austrian Foundation's 2003 Herbert von Karajan Fellowship for Young Conductors, the 2005 International Richard-Wagner-Verband Stipend, a fellowship the Acanthes Centre in Paris (2007), and is first prize winner in conducting from The American Prize national non-profit competitions in the performing arts for 2020. His work at UW has earned national recognition. In 2021 he was praised by The American Prize as “Consistently one of the most courageous and comprehensive [orchestral] programmers working in higher education in the U.S. today…” Dr. Rahbee has appeared in concert with orchestras such as the Seattle Symphony, RTE National Symphony Orchestra of Ireland, Orchestre Philharmonique du Luxembourg, Kammerphilharmonie Berlin-Brandenburg, Guernsey Symphony Orchestra, Chattanooga Symphony, National Chamber Orchestra of Armenia, Orchestre de la Francophonie, Orchesterakademie der Bochumer Symphoniker, the Dresden Hochschule orchestra, Grand Harmonie, the Boston New Music Initiative, Seattle Modern Orchestra, Orquesta Sinfónica de Loja (Ecuador), Savaria Symphony Orchestra (Hungary), Cool Opera of Norway (members of the Stavanger Symphony), Schönbrunner Schloss Orchester (Vienna), the Whatcom Symphony Orchestra, the Kennett Symphony, and the Divertimento Ensemble of Milan. His collaborations with the Seattle Symphony include assistant conductor for the performance and recording of Ives’ Fourth Symphony, and as guest conductor for their Native Lands project and the North American premiere of Páll Ragnar Pallson's Quake with faculty cellist Sæunn Thorsteinsdóttir. He has collaborated with several prominent soloists such as Sarah Chang, Jon Kimura Parker, Yekwon Sunwoo, Glenn Dicterow and Jonathan Biss. He has been a guest rehearsal conductor for numerous young orchestras, such as the New England Conservatory Symphony Orchestra, The Symphony Orchestra of the Hall-Musco Conservatory of Music at Chapman University, and the Vienna University of Technology orchestra. He has served on faculty of the Pierre Monteux School as Conducting Associate, has been resident conductor of the Atlantic Music Festival and guest conductor at the Hawaii Performing Arts Festival. Dr. Rahbee was an assistant at the Vienna State opera from 2002-2010. As part of his fellowship and residency at the 2003 Salzburg Festival, Dr. Rahbee was assistant conductor of the International Attergau Institute Orchestra, where he worked with members of the Vienna Philharmonic. He has been selected to actively participate in masterclasses with prominent conductors such as Kurt Masur, Sir Colin Davis, Jorma Panula, Zdeněk Mácal, Peter Eötvös, Zoltán Peskó and Helmut Rilling, and counts Nikolaus Harnoncourt to be among his most influential mentors. From 1997-2001, David Rahbee was founder and conductor of the Fidelio Chamber Orchestra in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Dr. Rahbeeʼs principal conducting teachers were Charles Bruck and Michael Jinbo at the Pierre Monteux School. He holds a Bachelor of Music degree in violin and composition from Indiana University, a Master of Music degree from the New England Conservatory in orchestral conducting, and a Doctorate of Musical Arts from the University of Montreal in orchestral conducting. He has also participated in post-graduate conducting classes at the Universität für Musik und Darstellende Kunst, Vienna. His brass arrangements are published by Warwick Music, and his articles on the music of Mahler have appeared in journals of the International Gustav Mahler Gesellschaft, among others. In addition to being awarded first prize in conducting from The American Prize for 2020, he was awarded 2nd place in 2019. He has also placed among winners for five consecutive years for The American Prize Vytautas Marijosius Memorial Award for Orchestral Programming, recognizing his programming with the UW Symphony and its affiliated ensembles for every season since he joined the faculty. The UWSO has also been a finalist in the category of orchestral performance in 2018, 2019 and 2020. Dr. Rahbee is co-editor of Daniels’ Orchestral Music (6thedition) and Daniels’ Orchestral Music Online (DOMO), the gold standard among conductors, orchestral administrators, orchestra librarians as well as other music professionals and students researching for orchestral programming. Daren Weissfisch Daren Weissfisch has conducted professional and student ensembles in the United States, Mexico and Europe for over a decade. From 2013 until 2019 he was the Artistic Director and Conductor of the Orquesta Sinfónica Esperanza Azteca Sinaloa, which is an El Sistema based youth orchestra and choir in Culiacán, Sinaloa, Mexico. Daren was guest conductor for the Festival Sinfónico Noroeste in 2018 and 2016 as well as the assistant director for the 2016 production of Charles Gounod’s opera Romeo and Juliet, under Sinaloense conductor Enrique Patrón de Rueda. The same year he collaborated with French guitarist Jean Bruno Dautaner to record the contemporary guitar concerto Tres en Raya by Spanish composer Antonio Ruíz Pipó under the AdLib MusicMX record label. In 2017 Daren conducted the Sinaloa premier of Horizontes, a work by Mexican composer and Juilliard composition professor Samuel Zyman, with the Orquesta Sinfónica Sinaloa de las Artes, and for the 2017 Sinaloa Cultural Festival and 2018 Chamber Music Series, Daren founded the ensemble Sinaloa Players which presented Stravinsky’s masterpiece Histoire du Soldat, with renowned Mexican choreographer Mauricio Nava and the Danza Joven Sinaloa contemporary dance ensemble. Daren began his conducting studies in the United States with Glen Adist at the University of Hartford’s Hartt School of Music. He has studied with notable conductors including Edward Cumming of the Hartford Symphony Orchestra, Linus Lerner of the Southern Arizona Symphony Orchestra, Donald Schleicher of the University of Illinois, Carlos Spierer of the Orquesta Sinfónica de Minería in Mexico City, Lior Shambadal of the Berliner Symphoniker, Charles Olivieri-Munroe of the Cracow Philharmonic Orchestra and Gábor Hollerung of the Dohnanyi Orchestra Budafok in Budapest, Hungary. He also spent two summers as a conductor at the Pierre Monteux Festival and School in Hancock, Maine studying with pedagogue and conductor of the Nittany Valley Symphony, Michael Jinbo. Daren is currently pursuing a Master’s degree in Orchestral Conducting at the University of Washington School of Music under the tutelage of David Alexander Rahbee. Daren is also an oboist and was the second/assistant principal oboist of the Orquesta Sinfónica Sinaloa de las Artes from 2010-2019 as well as soloist playing oboe concertos by Mozart, Strauss and Bach. He is a substitute player in Seattle with the Bainbridge Symphony Orchestra and the Orchestra Seattle. Rylan Virnig Rylan Virnig is currently pursuing a Master’s degree in Orchestral Conducting under the direction of Dr. David Alexander Rahbee. A passionate educator, Rylan began his formal conducting studies with Robert Spittal and Timothy Westerhaus at Gonzaga University, where he received degrees in Violin Performance and Economics. In addition to winning the University’s Concerto Competition during his third year, Rylan was awarded the Undergraduate Music Award as well as the Jo Merwin Music Award for outstanding musical accomplishments and contributions. Rylan also served as concertmaster of the Gonzaga Symphony Orchestra, who hosted internationally recognized soloists such as Midori Goto and Lynn Harrell. In addition to his duties as conductor of the Campus Philharmonia Orchestra and assistant conductor of the University of Washington Symphony Orchestra, Rylan is also the conductor of the Snoqualmie Strings Youth Chamber Orchestra. Rylan has appeared as substitute violinist for the Portland Columbia Symphony Orchestra, and Helena Symphony Orchestra, and remains an active instructor of music at various institutions, such as the Community Music Center, and the Chamber Music Camp of Portland. Rylan has also participated in the Pierre Monteux School and Music Festival Orchestra and the InterHarmony International Music festival in Italy. People Involved: David Alexander Rahbee Hannah Chou Daren Weissfisch Rylan Virnig Event Type: Performances Student Activities and Performances Related Areas of Study: Conducting Instrumental Performance Orchestral Activities Orchestral Conducting Related Ensembles: University of Washington Symphony Orchestra Share: Composition Conducting Ethnomusicology Instrumental Performance Jazz and Improvised Music Music Education Music History and Theory Vocal Performance Information for Prospective Students Information for Current Students Event Categories Academic Calendar Auditions Ceremonies Community Events Conferences Degree Recitals Exhibits Faculty Performances Information Sessions Lectures Master Classes Performances Screenings Special Events Student Activities and Performances Talks Visiting Artists and Scholars Workshops Related Event Series 2021-22 Concert Season Stay Connected FacebookTwitterLinkedInSoundcloudYouTubeInstagramNews FeedMailing ListAlumni Update University of Washington School of Music Music Building Box 353450 (206) 543-1201 More contact info Subscribe to our newsletter Accessibility Statement The University of Washington is committed to providing access, equal opportunity and reasonable accommodation in its services, programs, activities, education and employment for individuals with disabilities. To request disability accommodation contact the Disability Services Office at least ten days in advance at: (206) 543-6450/V, (206) 543-6452/TTY, (206) 685-7264 (FAX), or dso@u.washington.edu. Main Menu People Faculty By Area of Study By Last Name Staff Graduate Students Hire a Musician Alumni Alumni Profiles Alumni News Submit an Update Programs & Courses Admissions & Auditions Undergraduate Admissions Freshman & New Major Applications International Applications Post-Bac Applications Transfer Applications Graduate Admissions Choral Conducting Composition Ethnomusicology, Music Education, Musicology & Music Theory Instrumental & Vocal Performance, Jazz & Improvised Music Orchestral Conducting Wind Conducting Auditions Undergraduate & Graduate Auditions Ensemble Auditions Non-Major Auditions Audition Sign-ups Audition Repertoire Undergraduate Degrees Bachelor of Arts Ethnomusicology Music, Early Music History Option Music, Instrumental Option Music, Music History Option Music, Music Theory Option Music, Voice Option Bachelor of Music Composition Guitar Jazz Studies Music Education, Instrumental Emphasis Music Education, Vocal Emphasis Music Education, Post Bac, Instrumental Emphasis Music Education, Post Bac, Vocal Emphasis Orchestral Instruments Organ Percussion Performance Piano Strings Voice Music Minor Graduate Degrees Master of Arts Ethnomusicology Music Education Music History Music Theory Master of Music Brass Performance Choral Conducting Composition Harp & Guitar Performance Harpsichord Performance Instrumental Conducting Jazz Studies Organ Performance Percussion Performance Piano Performance String Performance Voice Performance Woodwind Performance Doctor of Musical Arts Brass Performance Choral Conducting Composition Harp Performance Harpsichord Performance Instrumental Conducting Organ Performance Percussion Performance Piano Performance String Performance Voice Performance Woodwind Performance Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Ethnomusicology Music Education Music History Music Theory Theory Certificate Non-Majors, Access, & Public Learning Courses Course Offerings Registration Policies Secondary Piano Piano Proficiency Test FAQs Placement Audition FAQs Upper Level Electives World Music Core Courses Study Abroad Summer Study Performances & Events Current Season Ticketing Venues & Parking Past Seasons Events Calendar Research Centers & Labs DXARTS Archives & Collections Ethnomusicology Archives Musical Instrument Collection Choral Music Library John Blacking: Venda Music Vi Hilbert Archive Music Library Current Projects Publications & Recordings Student Work Fields of Interest Ensembles Auditions Early Music & Baroque Chamber Music Jazz Modern & Contemporary Orchestras Percussion Vocal Bands Other Ensembles News Recent News News Archive Newsletter Mailing Lists Email Communications Print Mailings Resources Advising Diversity, Equity, & Inclusion Scholarships & Financial Aid Internships & Careers Student Advisory Council Music Library Room Reservations & Event Production Concert & Event Production Room Reservations & Recital Scheduling Facilities Frequently Asked Questions Faculty & Staff Resources About From the Director History Areas of Study Stay Connected Support Us Contact Us The University of Washington acknowledges the Coast Salish peoples of this land, the land which touches the shared waters of all tribes and bands within the Suquamish, Tulalip and Muckleshoot nations. School of Music · University of Washington · Music Building, Box 353450 · Seattle, WA 98195 Telephone: (206) 543-1201 · Email: musinfo@uw.edu Copyright © 2013-2020 University of Washington · Privacy · Terms · Site Map · Contact Us