Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Music Department of Music Contact Us Facebook Music@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Back to Top Nav Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP Back to Top Nav News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Cooking Up a Concert—With Rice Posted on April 22, 2022 by Charlotte Albright News subtitle Digital Musics master’s candidate converts rice cookers into synthesizers. Image Image Trevor Van de Velde, Guarini ’22, with one of his rice cooker synthesizers. (Photo by Robert Gill) Body At the end of this month, Trevor Van de Velde, Guarini ’22, a graduate student in Digital Musics, will switch on a cluster of rice cookers, not just to serve a meal, but to make music. “He won a Hopkins Center for the Arts Integration Initiative Grant to develop a brilliant project, called ‘Hacking Grains,’ into his thesis installation this spring,” says Associate Professor of Music Ash Fure. “He’s using Arduino-hacked rice cookers that function as custom instruments.” Arduino is an electronics platform that receives inputs from sensors and can control activators, including lights and sounds. Here, in simplified terms, is the recipe for Van de Velde’s multi-media installation. Find at least 20 used electric rice cookers. Take the appliances apart and convert them into small synthesizers. Program the machines to make sounds and emit light while at the same time cooking rice. Connect the cookers to each other and to speaker cones placed around the room. Fill the cones with raw rice. (“The low frequencies will vibrate and rattle the grains of rice. The various frequencies and intensities will cause the grains of raw rice to react differently, emphasizing its physicality and texture,” says Van de Velde.) Ask the New-York-based piano duo Chromic Duo to perform on these instruments. Remote video URL Trevor Van den Velde, with fellow Guarini student Olivia Shortt, demonstrated an early version of his project at the Hop last term. (Video by Trevor Van den Velde) The idea for the installation bubbled up in Van de Velde’s family’s kitchen in Fresno, Calif., during a COVID-19 lockdown. Van de Velde, who is Chinese-American, became fascinated by his mother’s rice cooker, “a fancy appliance that, whenever you press ‘start,’ plays music.” Nothing wrong with hearing a little tune as you wait for rice to cook, he thought. But the repertoire seemed out of sync with his Asian heritage. “How come it always played Western classical music?” he wondered. “These appliances, they could sound like anything. I wanted to rip out the little speaker and insert my own sounds and expand its capability into a fully working music instrument capable of musical expression.” Which is exactly what he’s spent the last few months doing, in his studio at the Hop. Image Grains of rice placed in speaker cones play a key role in the music. (Photo by Robert Gill) With his thesis project, Van de Velde says he wants to pay respect to the cultural significance of rice. “In a lot of East Asian languages, the verb ‘to eat’ contains the word for ‘rice.’ So for us, it’s a grain at the core of humanity” he says. Before the pandemic hit, Van de Velde loved giving dinner parties. “It was my favorite thing to do, because the power of eating a meal with other people is so beautiful. I wanted to bring that into the classical music scene, using the rice cookers as a cultural technology that brings people together in a form of communion.” At 8 p.m. on April 30 in Room 58 in the basement of the Hopkins Center for the Arts, he’ll serve up a one-of-a-kind sonic feast. And he’ll also dish out the cooked rice at the end of the performance. Admission is free, but registration is required. Tags: Ash Fure , Digital Musics Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Music Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback