Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Music Department of Music Contact Us Facebook Music@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Back to Top Nav Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP Back to Top Nav News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Individual Instruction Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Contact Us Share Performance Laboratories Performance Laboratory courses (MUS 50) provide weekly coaching and instruction in diverse styles of music in a focused, small-group setting. These courses are open by audition to all Dartmouth students, regardless of major. Course Details Course work centers on musical readings and performance of selected repertoire chosen both for its intrinsic interest and for its relevance to the contents of course syllabi within the Music Department. Performance Laboratory courses may be taken for credit (three terms equals one credit) or on a not-for-credit basis. Subject to space availability, students may enroll in different laboratories during different terms. Terms of enrollment need not be consecutive. Performance Laboratories are offered every fall, winter, and spring. The course number is determined by the Performance Lab, and the section number is determined by your progress in the three-term course sequence, regardless of the current term (fall, winter, or spring). For example, if you are a Jazz Improvisation (MUS 50.3) student on your second term of Performance Laboratory courses, you will register for MUS 50.32. Course numbers MUS 50.1: Chamber Music MUS 50.2: Contemporary Music MUS 50.3: Jazz Improvisation MUS 50.4: Opera Lab Section numbers Section 1 (50.x1): Student's first term of a MUS 50 Performance Lab Section 2 (50.x2): Student's second term of a MUS 50 Performance Lab Section 3 (50.x3): Student's third term of a MUS 50 Performance Lab MUS 50.11-50.13 Chamber Music Depending on enrollment and distribution of instruments, this laboratory may be broken down into several configurations, e.g., quartet, piano quintet, wind octet, string trio, etc. Repertoire focuses on chamber music from the eighteenth century through the first half of the twentieth. MUS 50.11-50.13 Dist: ART; WCult: W. Directors: Marcia Cassidy and Gregory Hayes MUS 50.21-50.23 Contemporary Music The contemporary music laboratory will read through and study works appropriate to the participants' skill level, and where possible, collaborate with Dartmouth's compositional community in informal performances of newly-composed works. MUS 50.21-50.23 Dist: ART; WCult: W. Director: Amy Garapic MUS 50.31-50.33 Jazz Improvisation This course serves as a laboratory for students with some preparation in jazz to develop skills in composition, arranging, and performance. Ensemble configurations will be determined each term on the basis of enrollment. MUS 50.31-50.33 Dist: ART; WCult: W. Director: Michael Zsoldos MUS 50.41-50.43 Opera Lab This course serves as a laboratory for voice students, or students with an interest in vocal music, to develop vocal, language, and acting skills, working on repertoire of different eras. Repertoire will be determined each term on the basis of enrollment. MUS 50.41-50.43 Dist: ART; WCult: W. Directors: Filippo Ciabatti, Erma Mellinger and Peter Webster. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Music Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback