Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | College of Music Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU College of Music Toggle navigation Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Home Ensembles Bands Bands and Wind Orchestra at FSU NEW: James E. Croft Grant for Young and Emerging Wind Band Composers Florida State Chamber Winds This graduate student wind ensemble with flexible instrumentation performs large chamber works and also features guest soloists. The group tours occasionally, and performs on and off campus at conferences and special events. (Richard Clary, Conductor) The Campus Band The Campus Band is open to all students with interest and experience. It meets weekly during both semesters, flexibily responding to students' interests and abilities while rehearsing and performing a wide and diverse literature. University Concert Band The Concert Band is devoted to the rehearsal, study, and performance of important band literature. This ensemble is open to all students with interest and experience, by audition. (Steven Kelly, Conductor, Fall Semester; David Plack, Conductor, Spring Semester) Marching Chiefs The Marching Chiefs is a marching band of approximately 400 students that performs at all home football games and traditionally travels to two or three out-of-town games during the football season. The Chiefs are a central feature of the annual Prism Concert, which features the complete spectrum of band activities at FSU. Students who wish to enroll must audition by attending a preseason training session held before classes begin. For further information and an application, call the band office at (850) 644-3507. (Patrick Dunnigan, David Plack, Conductors) Seminole Sound Seminole Sound is Florida State University's Athletic Pep Band consisting of over 130 members. The Seminole Sound performs for FSU Men's and Women's Basketball, FSU Women's Volleyball, and a variety of other athletic events dedicated to the support of the FSU Athletic Programs. Each year, in support of FSU Basketball, members of the Seminole Sound travel to post season basketball tournaments including the ACC and NCAA tournaments. In addition to the support of FSU athletics, The Seminole Sound performs at a number of public events each year representing Florida State University. (David Plack, Conductor) University Symphonic Band The Symphonic Band is the top undergraduate wind band. Although made up essentially of music majors, the Symphonic Band is open to all university students by comprehensive auditions. Two performances are scheduled each semester in addition to tours and frequent appearances at national conventions or conferences. (Patrick Dunnigan, Conductor) University Wind Orchestra The Wind Orchestra is the top graduate wind band. They engage in professional level study of wind literature important to contemporary performing practices. The Wind Orchestra's campus performances are supplemented by periodic tours, selected artist concert series, conventions, and conference appearances. All performers rotate in the assignment of parts, and all serve as principals. (Richard Clary, Conductor) For a selection of videos by our ensembles, click here. title-inside title-centered 2 Legacy Sort 8 Legacy Priority 1 FSU College of Music 122 N. Copeland St Tallahassee, FL 32306 Main Office: 850-644-3424 Admissions: 850-644-6102 Box Office: 850-644-6500 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Visit on social media @musicFSU © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media