Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Music Department of Music Contact Us Facebook Music@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Back to Top Nav Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP Back to Top Nav News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series Vaughan Recital Series Application Form Vaughan Recital Series Performance Inquiry Share Vaughan Recital Series Alden G. Vaughan, a 1917 Dartmouth College graduate and Hanover resident who died in 1984, was honored November 16, 1988 at a recital in the series which was to bear his name. Alden G. Vaughan The well-known Faulkner Recital Series, which for several years had offered free recitals Wednesdays and Sundays, was renamed the Vaughan Recital Series in memory of Vaughan, who made a bequest to Dartmouth College in support of the fine arts. The fund is to support two areas which were of personal interest to Mr. Vaughan at the College: the Wednesday and Sunday recital series and the purchase of art books for the library. Alden G. Vaughan earned a B.A. from Dartmouth College with a double major in Greek and Latin and an M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania. After his wife's death in 1968, Vaughan returned to Hanover and held every officer position for his Dartmouth class. Vaughan recitals are free and open to the public. Performances range from chamber music to Indonesian Gamelan. Students, faculty and artists whom faculty have sponsored give recitals. In the spring, Dartmouth seniors, who by their performance fulfill a course requirement, give the majority of recitals. Students who would like to perform, but who are not ready to present an entire solo recital often join with other students. These recitals may be arranged with the help of the instrument or vocal instructors. The Vaughan Recital Series has been presented by the Music Department for many years. It is a service to the community and a benefit to its students (both as performers and listeners), its faculty and the audience at large. Recitals take place in Faulkner Recital Hall in the Hopkins Center on Wednesdays at 12:30 pm and the Sunday recital is at 4:00 pm. There is no admission charge. Current recital series listings can be found on the Music Department calendar. Email music@dartmouth.edu to join the Music Department's email list. If you are interested in performing in a Vaughan Recital, please visit our inquiry page. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Music Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback