Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Music Department of Music Contact Us Facebook Music@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Back to Top Nav Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP Back to Top Nav News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Faculty and Staff Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Share Majors and Minors Music Major Maxwell Blum '23 Hi! My name is Maxwell Blum and I'm a Quantitative Social Science and Music double major. Though I play piano, guitar, and sing, my primary musical interest is in synthesizers – some of my favorite music employs android synths that slide, run, and talk. I'd love to have a collection of vintage synthesizers that tell a story about how electronics changed Music one day. On campus, I give tours and train tours guides with the Dartmouth Office of Admissions, I write opinion articles for The Dartmouth, I'm involved with the Dartmouth College Investment Office, and play keys in a student-led band. In my free time I enjoy bullet journaling and cooking. music_dept_headshot_-_maxwell_blum.jpg Modified Music Major Ida Claude '22 Hello! My name is Ida Claude and I'm a '22 majoring in Music modified with Medieval & Renaissance Studies. I started playing the violin when I was 3 and currently play in the Dartmouth Symphony Orchestra and work as a manager for the ensemble! Working for the Dartmouth Symphony Orchestra and hiring professional musicians who play with us in concerts sparked my interest in arts administration. During college I have had some amazing opportunities to explore this career path, and have worked at the Marlboro Music Festival, The People's Music School, and the Chicago Youth Symphony Orchestra. Outside of music, I have academic interests in healthcare and government. In my free time I love playing chamber music, learning new instruments (ask me about harpsichord lessons at Dartmouth!), cooking, and spending time outdoors. img_1150_-_ida_claude.jpg Music Major Jacob Fyda '22 My name is Jacob Fyda and I am a senior music major. My primary instrument is guitar, but I also sing and play bass, keyboards, and harmonica. I mostly play psychedelic, blues rock and jam band music, and I also enjoy listening to bluegrass and jazz. Besides my music classes, I am pursuing a premedical curriculum and have been involved in science research, primarily in biology, for the last four years. I teach ski lessons at the Dartmouth Skiway and have organized several local charitable events on campus. In my free time, I enjoy skiing, hiking, and playing with other musicians on campus. img_4929_-_thomas_fyda.jpg Prospective Music Major C.J. Henrich '24 My name is C.J. Henrich and I am interested in music as a theoretical concept in its relationship to the audience. I have personally been practicing the harp for over a decade now and have played in the New York State All-Conference Orchestras and the Dartmouth Symphonic Orchestra. In those years, I have learned about performance and how to stylize music to more appeal to audiences, balancing performing excellent music with appeasing audiences. My favorite classical music piece is Gustav Holst's "The Planets," although my favorite modern musicians include Green Day, Lil Nas X, and Lemon Demon. Outside of music, I am majoring in Film & Media Studies as well. I am also a writer for satire magazine The Jack-o-Lantern and a member of the Dartmouth Comedy Network. c.j._henrich_picture_-_christian_henrich.jpg Music Major Katie Hoover '22 My name is Katie Hoover (she/her) and I am a senior music major. I have been most interested in studying composition and music theory. Outside of classes, I play viola in the Dartmouth Symphony Orchestra, play keyboard in a band on campus, and have also participated in chamber music and jazz piano lessons. In addition to music, I am also a history major, and I am currently working on a thesis that centers a 19th c. American woman composer. img_2461_-_katherine_hoover.jpg Music Major Kaj Johnson '22 My name is Kaj, and I'm a senior from Minneapolis. I was first introduced to music through a family of choral singers, and grew up singing everything from German rounds to musical theater bops. Since coming to Dartmouth, I have harbored research interests in ethnomusicology and sound art – and more specifically, how music can facilitate agentive identity-building in the face of classism, racism, and heteropatriarchy. I conduct musicology research with Professor Cheng, sing with the Dartmouth Aires, and love to jam with my housemates in Panarchy. I am currently pursuing opportunities to study queer music(ology), acoustic violence, and Midwestern hip-hop at the graduate level. In my spare time, I enjoy running and biking, watching unhelpful Ableton tutorials, and fantasizing about my dream tattoo. Musicians that I can't stop listening to these days include Doss, cupcakKe, and MF DOOM. kaj_headshot_-_kaj_johnson.jpeg Music Minor Nathaniel Koidahl '22 My name is Nate Koidahl, I'm a Dartmouth '22 studying Economics and Music. I play drums in The Dandelions, produce music in my free time, and DJ across campus. img_4914_-_nathaniel_koidahl.jpg Music Major Lucy Langenberg '22 I'm a double major in biology and music with a minor in Earth sciences. Within the music major, I'm particularly interested in modern works for winds – performance, theory, and the politics surrounding wind music in academic settings. When I'm not busy making reeds, I can be found playing bassoon in the wind ensemble or conducting the marching band! Outside of the music department, I do environmental microbiology research in the Earth sciences department, as well as making time to cook and get outside in my free time (I love a good hike or ski). Ask me about Maslanka or Glass Animals! img_4976_-_lucy_langenberg.jpg Music Major Ginny Wei '22 My name is Ginny Wei, class of 2022, and I'm interested in why people make the music they make. I primarily study the K-pop and J-pop idol industries and how they intersect with cultural values in South Korea and Japan. Aside from majoring in Music, I also minor in Chemistry, and when I'm not working on academics, you can find me working in House Center A (the Onion) or leading activities for my Christian student group, Agape. img_5418_-_virginia_wei.png Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Music Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback