Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Music Department of Music Contact Us Facebook Music@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Back to Top Nav Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP Back to Top Nav News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share 'Exhilarating' New Music Festival Opens at the Hop Posted on March 31, 2022 by Charlotte Albright News subtitle An eclectic roster features graduate students as well as highly acclaimed guests. Image Image Bassist William Parker’s futuristic jazz trio Mayan Space Station will perform on Tuesday. (Photo by Peter Gannushkin) Body Vibrant sonic art will herald spring at the Hopkins Center for the Arts. Early next week, a jazz bandleader, digital musics students from the Guarini School of Graduate and Advanced Studies, and community singers will highlight the 2022 New Music Festival. “Dartmouth’s Department of Music and the Digital Musics Program are centers of great experimentation and invention, home to original artists and musical thinkers across the generations. The festival channels this collective energy through four varied and exhilarating events,” says festival co-director Richard Beaudoin, an assistant professor of music. At 3:30 p.m. on April 4, in the East Reading Room of Dartmouth Library’s Baker-Berry Library, community singers will kick off the festival by participating in a vocal work by contemporary music pioneer Pauline Oliveros, led by Beaudoin. “I had the honor to meet Oliveros and sing her now-iconic ‘Tuning Meditation’ alongside her,” he says. “The experience has never left me and I, in turn, sing the piece with Dartmouth students every year in my course, MUS 43: ‘Modern Classical Music.’ ” Quote This year’s festival asks … what music can and should mean for the present moment, with its pressures, rifts, and yet reasons for hope. Attribution Victoria Aschheim, lecturer, Department of Music At 7:30 p.m., the festival returns to Bentley as six master’s candidates in the Digital Musics Program will present works collectively titled “Garden Ghosts and the Bees.” Mame Loshn Potions מאַמע לשון פאָשנס, by Eli Berman is a set of experimental dance pieces weaving together khazones (Ashkenazi Jewish cantorial singing) with Yiddish and Appalachian song traditions through extended vocal techniques and digital processing. Dreaming of a Phoenix Rising, by Armond Dorsey, is a poetic fusion of clarinet with field recordings, exploring the question “How do we heal?” rooted in Black ways of knowing. A Deal, by Piper Hill, is a short segment from an in-progress movie-musical using footage from the video game The Sims. The song’s protagonist must strike up a deal with a stranger, enabling his fairy godmother to fulfill his lifelong wish. Nina Boujee and Indigo present: Fiends, Feelings & Frolicking Fishsticks (THE MUSICAL!), by Olivia Shortt, features a Two-Spirit Trickster friend who sometimes pretends that they understand what it means to be a human in 2022 and sometimes imagines themselves as a potato salesperson living with 10 cats. mouthpiece, by Hamed Sinno, is an audiovisual performance for voice, speech synthesizers, and tape players, excerpted from a longer performance exploring queer vocalities as an interface for political embodiment. grain studies, by Trevor Van de Velde, is an exploration of the sonic granularity of rice and its use as both a cultural and sonic technology. Various do-it-yourself instruments and objects are used as vessels to create delicate feedback with amplified rice acting as a physical filter. The iconoclastic music-making continues at 7:30 p.m. on April 5, with bassist William Parker’s futuristic jazz trio Mayan Space Station, featuring Ava Mendoza on electric guitar and Gerald Cleaver on drums. Violinist Jennifer Koh, who had been previously scheduled for April 3, will not perform this year. “This year’s Festival asks—and invites the Dartmouth and Upper Valley communities to contemplate—what music can and should mean for the present moment, with its pressures, rifts, and yet reasons for hope. All the artists in the festival are answering this question in different, virtuosic, courageous, liberating ways,” says co-director Victoria Aschheim. William Cheng, the chair of the Department of Music, says the “spectacular programming” by Beaudoin and Aschheim “builds powerfully on the music department’s multiple anti-racist initiatives over the past couple of years.” “These initiatives include the founding of the department’s Anti-Racist Commons, comprising faculty, staff, and students; the creation of an annual Distinguished Reade Lecture in Music and Racial Justice; Artivism (Director Walt Cunningham and Associate Director Bryan Robinson); and a radical revamp of our major and minor requirements (an open course-count model that doesn’t pedagogically or curricularly privilege any musical classroom or tradition above another, such that all music courses ‘get to count’ eligibly and equally).” Festival events are free and open to the public, but tickets are required. Find more information about performers and the full schedule here. Tags: Digital Musics , Richard Beaudoin , Victoria Aschheim , William Cheng Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Music Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback