Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | College of Music Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU College of Music Toggle navigation Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Home Programs Music Therapy Music Therapy Jayne Standley - DIRECTOR OF MUSIC THERAPY Music Therapy students are committed to the therapeutic use of music to address the physical, emotional, cognitive, and social needs of a diverse range of people. Music Therapy is an evidence-based, allied health profession in which board certified music therapists use music interventions like singing, playing instruments, and songwriting to address functional goals, improve individuals' abilities, and facilitate mental and physical health and well-being. Individuals of all ages benefit from music therapy services, and a growing body of research supports its effectiveness. The Music Therapy program at Florida State University has provided comprehensive clinical education and training since 1950. FSU's undergraduate and equivalency music therapy programs prepare students for clinical practice in a wide range of settings, and successful completion of these programs qualifies students to sit for the board certification examination. Our graduate programs provide advanced training in clinical, administrative, and research skills and prepare students to be leaders in clinical work, education, and research. Students at all levels have the opportunity to participate in clinical, research, and scholarly activities. Music Therapy studies at FSU include music, music therapy, and related coursework. Clinical training is also an integral part of the program. For more information on specific aspects of the program, click on the links on this page. The Bachelor of Music-Music Therapy degree meets the standards set by the American Music Therapy Association for undergraduate degrees in the discipline. Students completing the degree are recommended by the college to the university for conferral of the degree. Completion of the BM Music Therapy degree prepares students to sit for the national board certification exam, leading to the credential Music Therapist-Board Certified (MT-BC), as administered by the Certification Board for Music Therapists. Faculty List Graduate Placements Statement of Philosophy × Graduate Placement Our Music Therapists Practice both locally and globally. Recent graduate placements include. Napa State Hospital, California University of Kentucky, Kentucky Radford University, Virginia Palm Beach Music Therapy Institute, Florida Early Childhood Center, Illinois Behavioral Health Center at Tallahassee Memorial Hospital, Florida Apalachee Mental Health, Florida Tallahassee Regional Medical Center, Florida Close × Statement of Philosophy Selection and preparation in Music Therapy at Florida State University is based upon an important yet extremely simple premise -- it is, that every client receiving music therapy services should have the best clinical assistance possible. This implies that every therapist should be committed to the subject of music and its therapeutic use with people. The strength of this commitment is evidenced by the academic and social behaviors of the prospective therapist in life, both in and out of the university environment. The FSU Music Therapy student is characterized by diligence in the pursuit of musical and academic excellence and active dedication to the improvement of the quality of life of their fellow human beings. Personal Qualities For those who value knowledge, the learning process is perpetual throughout life's time. To be an effective music therapist, one must develop: the ability to think, and therefore, value and discriminate, the ability to feel, and therefore, become sensitive to aesthetic qualities in music and life, and the courage to act, and therefore, translate those abilities to think and feel into overt behaviors. Successful music therapists evidence personal qualities of leadership, intellectual curiosity, social commitment, and emotional stability. They approach life, music, and the therapeutic profession in a positive, imaginative, and enthusiastic way.The music therapist attempts to create a respect and desire for quality life experiences, teaching others to learn and mature, react positively, listen responsively, and relate sensitively. Toward this goal, music therapists provide a variety of learning and therapeutic experiences for their clients and are stimulated by current research to seek, evaluate, and appropriately implement current ideas and developments in the therapeutic applications of music. They promote positive relationships with clients, colleagues, and others. They are emphathetic with people of differing social and ethnic backgrounds, and demonstrate mature attitudes and values. They consistently maximize client opportunities and accomplishments, and minimize self-aggrandizement. Their public performances are part of therapeutic programs geared to helping people become sensitive to aesthetic opportunities in life. Comprehensive Competencies Music therapists must be prepared and eager to assist those in need: the young, the poor, the underprivileged, the handicapped, the aged, those unable to cope, and the medically or mentally ill. In addition to personal competencies in music performance, improvisation, conducting, applied music, composing, arranging, analysis, history, repertoire, and other musical skills, they must have competencies in the teaching of music on all levels, nursery school through adulthood, and in the methods of music therapy in the full array of habilitative and rehabilitative settings. They must be exposed to techniques of teaching in the humanities, related arts, and general music areas, as well as, become proficient in the areas of psychology, anatomy, and other health/behavioral sciences. Concurrently, the music therapist must be able to express knowledge through verbal communication (oral and written) and through overt, demonstrable music and teaching/therapy behaviors. Close Degree Programs Bachelor of Music Therapy Master of Music Therapy Doctor of Philosophy in Music Education Concentrations available in any music education discipline, including: Music Therapy Music Therapy Equivalency Program Open to persons holding a bachelor's degree in music but not in music therapy. This equivalency program usually requires approximately one and one-half years of study and permits students to complete required American Music Therapy Association Coursework and a six-month clinical internship Specialized Studies Programs * - For degree-seeking College of Music students only ** - For graduate students only College Teaching** Music Education and Leadership** Special Music Education* Medical Music Therapy Learn More Little Ones Music Play Learn More Faculty Research Learn More Early Notes Network music therapy consortium for Childhood Neurodevelopment Learn More Practicum Sites Learn More Organizations Learn More title-inside title-centered 2 Legacy Sort 8 Legacy Priority 5 FSU College of Music 122 N. Copeland St Tallahassee, FL 32306 Main Office: 850-644-3424 Admissions: 850-644-6102 Box Office: 850-644-6500 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Visit on social media @musicFSU © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media