retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content MENU Header Menu For Faculty, Staff & Students Contact Us Directions & Parking Search Search People Directory Faculty Staff Teaching Assistants Emeritus QUARTETS IN RESIDENCE Miró Quartet Young Professional String Quartet Alumni Jobs Events Calendar Past Events 2022 ISJAC Events 2021-22 Season ATTEND AN EVENT Tickets & Subscriptions Performance Halls Directions & Parking MRH Parking Jessen Parking Covid-19 Protocol Get Event Updates Admissions How To Apply Financial Aid Plan A Visit Contact Admissions Academics Programs of Study Performance Music & Human Learning Bachelor of Arts in Music Composition Jazz Studies Chamber & Collaborative Conducting Musicology & Ethnomusicology Theory Degree Requirements Graduate Undergraduate Ensembles Ensemble Auditions STUDENT RESOURCES Chamber Music Musician's Health Career Services Non-Music Majors Research Centers Center for American Music Center for Music Learning Butler Opera Center News Support BSOM Giving Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Student Support Annual Fund Facility Updates LHB Legacy Fund Endowments The Butler Society Rent Our Facility Hire a Musician Pre-College Programs Piano Project Contact Parent Resources Faculty & Staff Schedule Application FAQ String Project Musical Lives The University of Texas Invitational Mariachi Conference Concert Share Mariachi Los Camperos Mariachi Paredes de la Universidad de Texas Award-winning high school Mariachi groups in Texas About Mariachi Los Camperos Grammy Award winner, Mariachi Los Camperos was founded in 1961 by Jose Natividad “Nati” Cano Ruiz. Mr. Cano played a fundamental role in the development of mariachi music in the United States by training and mentoring new generations of mariachi musicians. The Mariachi “Giant” was a visionary leader that wanted to take the mariachi performance out of customary locations such as Cantinas and into concert halls where celebrities performed. Nati Cano fulfilled his dream by presenting Los Camperos and performing at casinos in Las Vegas, Reno, Sparks, Lake Tahoe and other places where mariachis had never previously performed. Los Camperos became well known and in 1964, they were the first Mariachi to perform in New York’s Carnegie Hall. In 1969, Mr. Cano opened the first ever Mariachi Dine and Show at “La Fonda Casa de Los Camperos” now known as a Landmark in the city of Los Angeles, California. Today, mariachi restaurants all over the world are modeled after La Fonda. Mariachi Los Camperos, one of the most popular mariachi ensembles in the world, is noted for innovative shows and distinction as a concert ensemble. The group has performed for over 60 years on stage and television, including various PBS specials, “In Performance at the White House”, “The Spirit of Mexico”, “Viva La Tradicion” and others. Motion pictures such as: “Sex in the City 2”, “The Lost World: Jurassic Park,” “Jerry Maguire” and many more. The Grammy Award-winning ensemble has recorded and performed with many artist including Pedro Fernandez, Pepe Aguilar, Angeles Ochoa, Eugenia Leon, Lila Downs, Alejandro Fernandez, Luis Miguel and many more. Including, the collaboration on Linda Ronstadt’s 1987 milestone album, “Canciones de Mi Padre” and Ronstadt’s sequel album, “Mas Canciones” (released in 1992), they toured with the singer nationwide. On October 3rd, 2014, Los Camperos mourned the death of Nati Cano. His passing was greatly felt by followers, students and performers worldwide. Mr. Cano left the group to the musical director, Jesus "Chuy" Guzman whom has served as the musical director since 1992. Chuy Guzman is known for his musical arrangements that highlight the skills and voices of the group. He is widely recognized as an arranger, director, instructor, and musician in the genre of Mariachi music. Mr. Guzman has served as head instructor for numerous international mariachi festivals in the United States and Mexico. He is the Musical Director for the Mariachi Master Apprentice Program (MMAP) in San Fernando and continues as the instructor for Music of Mexico, at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). Under Guzman’s Direction, Mariachi Los Camperos released a 2015 Grammy-nominated musical tribute to Nati Cano called: Tradición, Arte, y Pasión, this album gave Mariachi Los Camperos a Grammy nomination. Determined for a Grammy Award, In January 2020 at the 62nd Grammy award celebration, Mariachi Los Camperos took home another Grammy award with their album release “De Ayer Para Siempre” for Best Regional Mexican Music Album. See All Upcoming Events Event Details Fri. Jul 1, 2022, 7 - 10 pm Bates Recital Hall (map) Free Admission. Seating is unassigned. If you are a patron with ADA seating needs, please email tickets@mail.music.utexas.edu and we will reserve seats for you. Event Types Music of the Americas Streamed Online 2406 Robert Dedman Dr. Stop E3100 Austin, TX 78712-1555 Facebook Twitter Instagram Footer menu Parking Jobs Accreditation Facility Rentals Contact Us Donate To BSOM UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022