Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Music Department of Music Contact Us Facebook Music@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Back to Top Nav Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP Back to Top Nav News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Contact Us Share Individual Instruction Program (IIP) Through courses in the Individual Instruction Program (MUS 53-58), student musicians receive weekly private lessons with some of the region's finest instructors. IIP courses are open by audition to all Dartmouth students, regardless of major. Auditions Before registering for an Individual Instruction Program course, you must audition for the instructor. IIP auditions are held at the beginning of each term. To schedule an audition, please contact the relevant instructor from the list on our Performance Faculty page. Registration Please consult the Registrar's Individual Instruction Program Guide for up-to-date information about how to register for IIP courses. The course number is determined by your instrument, and the section number is determined by your progress in the three-term course sequence, regardless of the current term (fall, winter, or spring). For example, if you are a trombone student on your second term of IIP lessons, you will register for MUS 55.02. Course numbers MUS 53: Keyboards (classical piano, jazz piano, organ) MUS 54: Woodwinds (flute, oboe, clarinet, bassoon, classical saxophone, jazz saxophone) MUS 55: Brass (horn, trumpet, trombone, euphonium, tuba) MUS 56: Strings (classical guitar, jazz and pop guitar, bass guitar, violin, viola, cello, double bass) MUS 57: Voice MUS 58: Percussion Section numbers Section 1 (.01): Student's first term of IIP Section 2 (.02): Student's second term of IIP Section 3 (.03): Student's third term of IIP Credit One course credit is offered for the combined three terms of instruction and will be granted only after successful completion of all three terms of study. The course is included as part of a student's official course load only in the last term and the grade is given upon completion. All courses in this sequence (MUS 53-58) are offered only on a graded basis; under College regulations the policy must be announced prior to each initial term. A student may repeat the course if satisfactory progress has been made, within the conditions stated following this description. Students may take courses within the Individual Instruction Program more than once. To initiate a new three-course sequence, they again receive instructor permission for the initial course. No more than four course credits from IIP courses (MUS 53-58) may be counted by any student toward the Dartmouth degree. Dist: ART. Grading Credit and a letter grade for the courses will be given only upon successful completion of all three terms. Students are reminded to register for each term of the three-course IIP sequence. At the end of the first and second terms of enrollment, students will receive the grade of "ON," indicating that the student is in the process of completing three terms of IIP courses (the "ON" grades will remain on the transcript). At the end of the third term, the student will receive one course credit and a final grade from the instructor. The course will count in the course load the third term only. Students are reminded to manage their course loads, recognizing that the IIP course will count in the third term of enrollment. See course load regulations for more information. Students will receive a "W" on their transcript if they drop an IIP course following the normal course withdrawal regulations for each term. Other Individual Instruction Options Students not accepted into an IIP course may make private arrangements for study with teachers on the staff of Dartmouth College, at the discretion of the instructor, or they may study off-campus with teachers in the area. No academic credit will be given for off-campus study and the fee is the responsibility of the student. For Music 60-65 (Studies in Musical Performance), please consult Organizations, Regulations, and Courses (ORC). Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Music Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback