Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Music Department of Music Contact Us Facebook Music@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Back to Top Nav Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP Back to Top Nav News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Kudos: Swayne Is In Residence at the Library of Congress Posted on April 27, 2022 by Office of Communications News subtitle Dartmouth faculty, students, and staff are recognized for their achievements. Image Image Music professor Steve Swayne was named a modern culture chair at the Library of Congress. (Photo courtesy of Steve Swayne) Body The Library of Congress has named Steve Swayne, the Jacob H. Strauss 1922 Professor of Music at Dartmouth, chair in modern culture at the library’s John W. Kluge Center. Swayne, who began his four-month residency in March, is working with the David Diamond Collection at the Library of Congress to write a book on the life and work of the influential 20th century American composer. According to the John W. Kluge Center, the modern culture chair is “occupied by scholars of great accomplishment chosen for their intellectual and communicative abilities.” The chair in residence is free to pursue their own research using the Library’s music, film, architecture, literature, multimedia, and folklore collections. “I was surprised to be contacted by the folks at the Library of Congress in early 2020, asking me if I would be open to receiving this honor,” says Swayne. “I was supposed to be in residence in spring 2021, so being here now is both a relief as well as an overwhelmingly humbling experience.” Diamond, who died in 2005 at 89, was one of the more significant composers of American symphonies of the 20th century, Swayne says. “Nearly all of Diamond’s papers are at the Library of Congress, so being here allows me the opportunity of immersing myself in his world for four months.” *** Morgan Swan, Special Collections Librarian for Teaching and Scholarly Engagement, has been selected as Dartmouth’s 2022 recipient of the Presidents’ Good Steward Award. This award, granted through Campus Compact for New Hampshire, “goes to a faculty, administration, or staff member who is dedicated to campus-community engagement ... and whose professional expertise in service to the wider community has significantly advanced public service on their campus.” The presidents of Campus Compact for New Hampshire’s 21 member colleges and universities nominate award candidates. *** Geisel School of Medicine student Amal Cheema, Geisel ’23, has been elected to the Association of American Medical College Organization of Student Representatives administrative board as a national delegate. The OSR represents medical students nationwide and actively advances the association’s mission to improve the nation’s health—Cheema has been one of two Geisel’s representative since spring 2021. “I am privileged and elated to have been elected to serve as a national delegate to the OSR Administrative Board, where I’ll have the opportunity to work collaboratively and cooperatively with fellow representatives to improve the quality of medical education across the U.S. through exchanging best practices,” Cheema says. *** Jennifer Lee ’22 and David Millman ’23 were Truman Scholar finalists. Although the two Dartmouth students were not selected to receive awards from the Truman Scholarship Foundation, “It’s such a huge honor to be named a finalist,” says Christie Harner, assistant dean of faculty for fellowship advising. Truman scholarships, named for President Harry S Truman, are merit-based awards to college students planning careers in public service. Tags: Steve Swayne Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Music Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback