Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu Alumni Hub news Alumni Commencement ceremony On Saturday, May 14, 2022, the Yale School of Music and the University community honored alumni from the classes of 2020 and 2021 with traditional commencement ceremonies. We were thrilled to have so many returning YSM alumni on campus. Read a recap of the day’s events at the link below. read more Close YSM alumni You're part of our community. Welcome to the Yale School of Music alumni community. It's comprised of alumni, faculty, staff, and students. We hope you'll use this page as point of connection to the School and the global community of YSM graduates. Learn what your fellow alumni are doing and share news of your own career. Keep in touch! Connect with Us From campus tours to our alumni newsletter and more – we want to stay connected! Take an Alumni Tour Sign up today for one of our upcoming alumni tours. See the new Adams Center for Musical Arts and more! take a tour take a tour Update Your Contact Info Interested in future alumni events? Help us keep in touch with you by updating your contact information. update now update now Read the Alumni Magazine YSM's alumni magazine, Music at Yale, features news highlights, your career news submissions, and stories about recent goings-on at the School of Music. Read the magazine Read the magazine submit your news Interested in having your career-related news featured? Submissions may be published in our alumni magazine or posted online. submit news find information about... Annual Fund give now Toggle Gifts to the annual Alumni Fund alleviate our students’ financial burdens when they travel to important auditions and attend international competitions, and allow the School of Music to fund master classes and to acquire and maintain fine instruments. The Alumni Fund offsets the financial burden of professional study at Yale and makes it possible for Yale School of Music students to participate in important musical activities throughout the world. Just as alumni gifts once helped fund your time at Yale, you can now take pride in knowing your generosity is helping those who are here now. Transcripts + Dossiers Toggle Request a transcript online: Current students and alumni with a Yale NetID order by signing in through the Student Information System (SIS), clicking on “Academics,” and selecting “Transcript Orders.” Alumni and former students unable to sign in to SIS will order directly through the Parchment website. See our transcript request FAQ below for more information. Other questions about transcripts may be directed to the Office of Student Services at 203 432-4151 Payment Online transcript orders require payment by credit or debit card. The charge is $8 per transcript. Mail and express delivery options are available for an additional fee. Payment for the full amount of a transcript order must be received before the order can be processed. Dossiers A dossier service is available to all graduates of the School of Music. A $50 set-up fee is required to initiate the file. Individual dossiers mailed from the School are $5 each. Questions about the dossier service may be directed to 203 432-4155. Transcript Request FAQs Toggle How much does a transcript cost? The charge is $8 per transcript. If you want a transcript sent by USPS or Express Delivery, additional charges apply. What are my delivery options? E-transcript (secure PDF) – no additional delivery charge Hold for pick-up – no additional delivery charge Standard mail via the U.S. Postal Service – additional $2.50 per address International mail via the U.S. Postal Service – additional $5.00 per address Fed Ex delivery: Domestic – additional $25 per address Fed Ex delivery: International Priority – additional $47.50 per address Note: Overnight delivery is not available to all international locations due to customs regulations. What are my payment options? Online transcript orders require payment by credit card. Payment for the full amount of a transcript order must be received before the order can be processed. How long will it take for my transcript to be sent? After the transcript order is received, it is generally processed within two business days, and then sent by your chosen method of delivery. Note: Depending on the location and time of year, standard mail can take two to four weeks to arrive at the final destination. Can I pick up my transcript in person? Yes. When placing your transcript order, select a transcript type of “Pick-up.” When you receive notification that your order is complete, you may pick up your transcript in person from the Registrar located in Sprague Memorial Hall (98 Wall St.). The office is open Monday through Friday from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. You will need photo ID. Can I order a transcript if I have a hold on my account? No. Transcript orders from current or former students with unmet obligations to the University will be cancelled. You will be notified by email and your credit card will not be charged. Such obligations may include unpaid bills, library fines, or failure to complete an exit interview for student loans. Prior to ordering transcripts, all students should check under “Your Holds” in the Academic Information section of the Student Information System to verify that they do not have any account restrictions. For questions please call 203 432-4151. Will my transcript include my GPA? Yes. Can I include other documents with my transcript when it is mailed? During the transcript-ordering process, you will be given the opportunity to upload documents such as scholarship applications in PDF, JPG, or JPEG formats to be included with the transcript mailing. Can I get an unofficial transcript? Unofficial transcripts are not available. Current and students with a NetID can access their academic history in the Student Information System. Can I have a friend or family member pick up my transcript? Yes. When placing your transcript order, select a transcript type of “Pick-up.” Students must send a written request as an email attachment to the YSM Office of Student Services at studentservices.music@yale.edu asking for the release of a transcript to a specific friend or family member. This written request must be signed by the student. The person picking up the transcript must show a photo ID. As a parent, can I request a transcript for my child? No. Under the regulations of the Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), only students have access to their education records. When a student turns 18 or attends a school beyond the high school level, access to his or her education records becomes legally exclusive to the student. Can my transcript be notarized? Yes. When placing your transcript order, take the following steps to request your transcript be notarized: Select the transcript delivery type of “hold for pick-up” When presented the upload/attach a document option, include a written statement requesting that the transcript be notarized and any additional information about where the transcript should be sent (pick-up in person, mailed to a third-party, etc.). Alternatively, you may send an email with this information to the YSM Office of Student Services at studentservices.music@yale.edu. You will receive email notification when your notarized transcript order has been fulfilled. How do I know if my transcript has been sent or received? The Parchment Support website has informational videos and FAQs regarding placing an order and tracking an order, as well as contact information for questions about a mailed transcript order. Can I forward my E-transcript to someone else? E-transcripts can only be sent to the “recipient” email address. Having it sent to you and attempting to forward it nullifies it as an official transcript. How do E-transcripts work? When an order for an E-transcript is fulfilled, the recipient will receive two emails—one to generate a passcode and one with a URL to enter the passcode and download the E-transcript. The recipient may access and download the E-transcript up to three time before the URL expires. If the recipient encounters problems with the E-transcript download it is recommended to clear the internet browser cache and ensure the most up to date Adobe software edition is installed. Contact Us contact us Toggle The Office of Alumni Affairs office is located on the Yale School of Music campus in New Haven, CT. Please email Katie Darr to make an appointment. Katherine Darr Director (203) 432-2208 YSM in the News Students, Faculty + Alumni Alumni News | May 2022 Join us in congratulating our accomplished alums, who’ve shared with us news of their recent successes. Learn More Students, Faculty + Alumni Andy Akiho, Anne Leilehua Lanzilotti named Pulitzer Prize finalists Yale School of Music alums Andy Akiho ’11MM and Anne Leilehua Lanzilotti ’08MM were finalists for the 2022 Pulitzer Prize in Music. Learn More Students, Faculty + Alumni Winners of the 2022 Woolsey Hall Concerto Competition announced This year’s Woolsey Hall Concerto Competition, which took place on April 2, yielded three winners: oboist Soo Min Ha ’21MM ’22MMA, who performed Vaughan Williams’ Oboe Concerto in A minor, IRV 50; violinist Anna Lee ’22MMA, who performed Beethoven’s Violin Concerto in D major, Op. 61; and cellist Jakob Taylor ’22MMA, who performed Prokofiev’s Sinfonia concertante, Op. 125. Each competition winner will perform as a soloist with the Yale Philharmonia during the 2022-2023 season. Learn More Engage with YSM Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Tel 860 542-3000 norfolk@yale.edu Music in Schools Initiative musicinschools@yale.edu YSM Box Office concerts@yale.edu Quick Links Alumni Hub Concerts at Norfolk Concerts at YSM Giving at YSM Music in Schools Initiative Follow Us See YSM Directory Buy Concert Tickets General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use