Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu Norfolk Chamber Music Festival–Yale Summer School of Music Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop Admissions My two summers at Norfolk were wonderful breaths of fresh air and truly stand-out experiences. Emily Sung (NCMF '14,'15) Assistant Chorus Master, Opera Philadelphia + Conducting Faculty, Temple University Close August 14–21, 2022 Applications are no longer accepted for summer 2022. World-renowned choral conductor Simon Carrington leads a workshop for advanced singers and choral conductors accompanied by an outstanding chamber ensemble. Repertoire includes music from the Renaissance to brand-new works of the 21st century. The week culminates in a concert held in the acoustically superb Music Shed, where conductors have the opportunity to direct instrumental and choral ensembles. Each conducting applicant must be accepted as a singer first. All accepted conductors sing in the Workshop’s chamber choir. Singers invited to the Workshop will receive an Ellen Battell Stoeckel Fellowship covering the full cost of tuition, housing, and meals. Conductors receive a Fellowship covering the cost of housing and meals. All workshop sessions, as well as the final concert, are audio and video recorded. The final concert is livestreamed on the Norfolk website. Scroll down to learn how to apply. "I really had the most fulfilling experience at Norfolk—not just musically, everyone involved created the most supportive environment that made the experience so unique. The choir was sensational, full of the most thoughtful musicians." —Emily Donato, soprano (NCMF '19) The Norfolk Chamber Music Festival – Yale Summer School of Music is continually monitoring the current health situation in light of the COVID-19 pandemic to ensure that moving forward with the program is safe and appropriate. We will follow Yale University and CDC recommendations and protocols for safety and preparedness. Vaccination is required for live auditions, and for participation in all three summer sessions. Singing + Conducting "I hadn’t anticipated how much it would help, but it’s important to the success of the week.” (Quintin Beer, NCMF '19) Read more Watch Video Media Selections from the 2019 Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Concert Close Selections from the Norfolk Chamber Choir and Choral Conducting Workshop 2019 performance at the Music Shed. To view the complete program visit Simon Carrington's website. Watch Video Media Excerpt from Andrew Carter's Silver Spring Magnificat | Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Close Andrew Carter: From Silver Spring Magnificat Norfolk Chamber Choir and Orchestra, Han Na Jan conductor Magnificat by Andrew Carter, MSM-70-007 Copyright © 2004 Birnamwood Publications (ASCAP), a division of MorningStar Music Publishers, St. Louis, MO. Used with permission. All rights reserved. http://www.morningstarmusic.com Watch Video Media Rommereim's Amara (Breath of Grace) Close John Rommereim (b. 1959) Amara (Breath of Grace) Norfolk Festival Chamber Choir William Duffy, conductor Noémi Sallai, clarinet Music Shed, August 18, 2018 Past Repertoire View past workshop repertoire. view repertoire Faculty Simon Carrington Director and Conductor, Chamber Choir & Choral Conducting Workshop, Norfolk Chamber Music Festival See Profile Ilya Poletaev Piano/Harpsichord/Organ, Festival Artist, Norfolk Chamber Music Festival See Profile MORE INFORMATION ON... How to Apply Toggle Application Deadline: March 17, 2022, 4 p.m. (EST) The Norfolk Chamber Music Festival–Yale School of Music will accept applications from advanced singers and choral conductors for the Chamber Choir and Choral Conducting Workshop. Participants are selected on the basis of ability and supporting materials. Each conducting applicant must be accepted as a singer first. All accepted conductors sing in the Workshop’s chamber choir. Session + Application Cost Toggle Application fee: $80 (non-refundable) Singer Registration: $300 (refundable) Fee is due upon acceptance of the fellowship. Fee must be paid by credit card. Visa, MasterCard, and American Express are accepted. Cash and checks are not accepted. Registration fee is refundable after completion of the program subject to deductions in the event of damage or loss to any property or non-compliance with any Festival policies. Conductor Tuition: $800 (non-refundable) Tuition fee is due upon acceptance of the fellowship. Fee must be paid by credit card. Visa, MasterCard, and American Express are accepted. Cash and checks are not accepted. Singers not participating as conductors will receive an Ellen Battell Stoeckel Fellowship covering the full cost of tuition. Fellowships Singers receive an Ellen Battell Stoeckel Fellowship covering the full cost of tuition, housing, and meals. Conductors receive an Ellen Battell Stoeckel Fellowship covering the full cost of housing and meals. Requirement Checklist Toggle All materials must be received by the deadline listed above. A complete application must include: 1. Online application form The application includes sections where you will upload all of your application materials. Applications can be started and then saved to be continued at a later time. 2. Audition video Videos must be uploaded with the application. Videos uploaded to YouTube will be accepted. Recordings of poor quality will not be evaluated. Audition repertoire requirements are listed below. 3. Two letters of recommendation On the application, you will provide your recommenders’ email addresses. Each will receive an automatic email with instructions on how to submit their recommendation. Letters must be written after January 1, 2021. One recommendation must include contact information (email or telephone). One letter must be from a recognized mentor (conductor or teacher) and must include a description of the candidate’s sight-reading ability. 4. Vocal repertoire list A list of works (with composers) that you have performed, received coachings on, and/or rehearsed. 5. Singer résumé or CV Résumé or CV should reflect your experience and studies as a singer. It is helpful to include such information as schools attended, private teachers, performance experience, music festival experiences, and teaching experience. 6. Non-refundable $80 application fee Once the online application is submitted, you will be prompted to submit the application fee. In addition to all items above, those applying asconductors must also submit: 7. Conducting video Video of a rehearsal and a concert performance must be uploaded as part of the application. Please see audition repertoire requirements listed below. 8. Conducting repertoire list A list of works (with composers) you have conducted in performance, received coachings on, and/or rehearsed. 9. Conducting résumé or CV Résumé or CV should reflect your experience and studies as a conductor. It is helpful to include such information as schools attended, private teachers, music festival experiences, ensembles/organizations you have conducted, and teaching experience. Audition Repertoire Toggle Singers and singer/conductors will audition for the workshop via video only. Live auditions will not be held. Videos must be uploaded as part of the application. Video uploaded to YouTube will be accepted. Poor quality recordings will not be evaluated. Arias and scales must be on separate tracks. If you have any questions about repertoire or the technical requirements, please contact the Norfolk office at norfolkmusic.org or call 860 542-3000. 1. Unaccompanied ascending and descending harmonic-minor scales Demonstrate your vocal range and flexibility by singing ascending and descending harmonic-minor scales, unaccompanied, at a gentle mezzo-piano, one octave at a time. Begin toward the bottom of your range and sing the scales individually, moving the scale up by a half-step each time, concentrating on accurate intonation and secure control. Please do not use solfège syllables but sing legato on a single vowel. If necessary, you may give yourself a single note on the piano at each half-step, but demonstrating your range without doing that is a better demonstration of your skills. Soprano and bass: minimum two octaves Alto: at least an octave and a 6th from low G (or lower) Tenor: at least an octave and a 6th from the C below middle C 2. Vocal works Two pieces which you feel demonstrate the special qualities of your voice. One of the pieces should be from the Renaissance or Baroque period and should be sung with minimum vibrato (such as you deem appropriate). In addition to all the materials above, those applying as conductors must also submit: 3. Conducting sample of a rehearsal Filmed with the camera facing you. Between three and five minutes in length; five minutes maximum. 4. Conducting sample of a performance Filmed with the camera facing you. Between three and five minutes in length; five minutes maximum. Acceptance Toggle Candidates will be notified by email on or before April 30, 2022, about the status of their application and audition results. All fees must be paid by credit card: Visa, MasterCard, and American Express are accepted. Cash and checks are not accepted. Singers The refundable registration fee of $300 must be paid within 10 days of acceptance to secure one’s position. The fee will be refunded after completion of the program subject to deductions in the event of damage or loss to any property or non-compliance with any Festival policies. Singer/conductors The non-refundable tuition fee of $800 must be paid within 10 days of acceptance to secure one’s position. Online Application apply now Yale University’s Nondiscrimination/Title IX Statements Toggle The University is committed to basing judgments concerning the admission, education, and employment of individuals upon their qualifications and abilities and affirmatively seeks to attract to its faculty, staff, and student body qualified persons of diverse backgrounds. In accordance with this policy and as delineated by federal and Connecticut law, Yale does not discriminate in admissions, educational programs, or employment against any individual on account of that individual’s sex, race, color, religion, age, disability, status as a veteran, or national or ethnic origin; nor does Yale discriminate on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity or expression. University policy is committed to affirmative action under law in employment of women, minority group members, individuals with disabilities, and protected veterans. Inquiries concerning these policies may be referred to Valarie Stanley, Director of the Office of Institutional Equity and Access, 221 Whitney Avenue; 4th Floor, 203 432-0849. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from sex discrimination in educational programs and activities at institutions that receive federal financial assistance. Questions regarding Title IX may be referred to the University’s Title IX Coordinator, Stephanie Spangler, at 203 432-4446 or at titleix@yale.edu, or to the U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights, 8th Floor, 5 Post Office Square, Boston MA 02109-3921; tel. 617 289-0111, fax 617 289-0150, TDD 800 877-8339, or ocr.boston@ed.gov. Personal Data Toggle Personal data collected by Yale University throughout the admissions process is collected for the primary purposes of considering your candidacy for admission and evaluating your eligibility for financial aid, if applicable. If you are admitted and enroll, your personal data will be used as necessary for registration and to facilitate your education. Engage with YSM Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Tel 860 542-3000 norfolk@yale.edu Music in Schools Initiative musicinschools@yale.edu YSM Box Office concerts@yale.edu Quick Links Alumni Hub Concerts at Norfolk Concerts at YSM Giving at YSM Music in Schools Initiative Follow Us See YSM Directory Buy Concert Tickets General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use