Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu Partner institutions + resources Music Lessons Program hire a ysm student music teacher Not a Yale student? Want to take music lessons with a School of Music student? Submit a request to find a teacher. learn more Close The School of Music offers music lessons to students in Yale College, the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and the graduate professional schools. Instruction is available in: flute, oboe, clarinet, bassoon, saxophone, horn, trumpet, trombone, tuba, percussion, harp, harpsichord, piano, organ, guitar, voice, violin, viola, cello, and double bass. Students interested in composition, choral conducting, and orchestral conducting can find classes in the Department of Music and in the School of Music. Eligibility + Information Undergraduate Students Toggle Due to Covid precautions mandated by Yale University, in-person lessons will only be available for fully vaccinated and boosted students and teachers, and masks must be worn during lessons. No lesson applications will be accepted after Jan. 31, 2022. Lessons information for Spring Semester 2022 The Yale University COVID Review Team has approved YSM music lessons for credit, secondary lessons, and non-credit lessons to be in person after Jan. 25, 2022, provided students are compliant with Yale’s required Covid precautions. Participants must be fully vaccinated (including boosters when eligible) in accordance with current Yale COVID policy. Prior to their first lesson, all participants must receive two negative COVID tests in accordance with the Return to Campus policy. For the duration of the spring semester, all participants should receive two COVID tests per week through the Yale Screening Program. Participants who are experiencing symptoms should schedule a COVID test and postpone the lesson until they receive a negative result. Students and teachers must wear masks during lessons. Singers must be masked during voice lessons. Wind/brass players must wear slit masks and use bell covers during lessons. Once students have met these requirements, they can schedule lessons with their instructors. Access to individual practice rooms in Hendrie Hall will be available by reservation after Jan. 25 through ArtsVision. Undergraduate music lessons for credit Pending the results of online auditions and faculty availability, YSM will grant credit lessons to select students. Students may be required to play a final jury each semester and will receive a narrative final grade report along with a P or F grade. There is no additional charge for the lessons; students enrolled for credit are also required to enroll in certain music theory and musicianship courses through the Department of Music: MUSI 110, 200, 207, 208, 210, 211, 216, 217, 218, or 219. These courses may be taken prior to or concurrent with credit music lessons. Guidance for music theory placement is available on the Department of Music's web page. Students wishing to apply for credit lessons must first fill out an application for lessons here. Once the application is processed, new students will then be invited to upload an audition video on Canvas. Non-credit lessons Non-credit-lesson students are not required to take any music theory courses, are not required to play a final jury, and do not receive a final grade. Students can choose to receive six hours of non-credit instruction per semester ($350) or 10 hours of instruction ($550). Undergraduate students who demonstrate musical potential and financial need are eligible for a scholarship from the Cynthia Redding White Dixon Memorial Fund through the Department of Music. For information about applying for a scholarship, please contact Kristine Kinsella. There is no refund for lessons missed, and the full year will be charged unless students drop the lessons before the deadline using the Lesson Drop Form. Returning undergraduate students Returning students must complete a Lesson Request Form. All students taking lessons for credit must also register for the class in their regular schedule as well as any music theory co-requisites needed. Some studios require students to re-audition each year. Please contact Professor Kyung Yu (kyung.yu@yale.edu) for specific audition requirements for your instrument. Graduate Students Toggle Due to Covid precautions mandated by Yale University, in-person lessons will only be available for fully vaccinated and boosted students and teachers, and masks must be worn during lessons. No lesson applications will be accepted after Jan. 31, 2022. Lessons information for Spring Semester 2022 The Yale University COVID Review Team has approved YSM music lessons for credit, secondary lessons, and non-credit lessons to be in person after Jan. 25, 2022, provided students are compliant with Yale’s required Covid precautions. Participants must be fully vaccinated (including boosters when eligible) in accordance with current Yale COVID policy. Prior to their first lesson, all participants must receive two negative COVID tests in accordance with the Return to Campus policy. For the duration of the spring semester, all participants should receive two COVID tests per week through the Yale Screening Program. Participants who are experiencing symptoms should schedule a COVID test and postpone the lesson until they receive a negative result. Students and teachers must wear masks during lessons. Singers must be masked during voice lessons. Wind/brass players must wear slit masks and use bell covers during lessons. Once students have met these requirements, they can schedule lessons with their instructors. Access to individual practice rooms in Hendrie Hall will be available by reservation after Jan. 25 through ArtsVision. Private lessons are available to all graduate students. The type of lesson enrollment, cost, and credit are determined by the student’s school: School of Music and Institute of Sacred Music concurrently enrolled at the School of Music Students may take one Music Lesson Program instrument each semester as per their major. No audition is required. There is no charge for the six hours of instruction per semester, but students may be required to play a final jury. To receive lessons and get credit students must complete the following: Request a teacher using the Music Lessons Request Form Register for the proper course along with their other regular classes Each lesson term is one semester; students must repeat both steps 1 and 2 above for each semester enrolled in the Music Lessons Program. If you drop your lessons, you must use the Lessons Drop Form before the stated deadline. Yale Divinity School, Yale School of Drama, and Yale School of Art Students may take one Music Lesson Program instrument each semester. No audition is required. There is a $200 fee for six hours of instruction per semester, and students may be required to play a final jury. To receive lessons and get credit students must complete the following: Request a teacher with the Music Lessons Request Form Register for the proper course in the school along with their other regular classes. Please check with your school’s registrar for the proper course. If you do not register for the Music Lesson Program through your school your lessons are considered non-credit and you will be charged $350 per semester. Each lesson term is one semester; students must repeat both steps 1 and 2 above for each semester enrolled in the Music Lesson Program. If you drop your lessons, you must use the Lesson Drop Form before the stated deadline. See your registrar for procedures and charges specific to your school. All Other Yale Graduate and Professional Schools It is not possible to take private music lessons for credit. Students select non-credit lessons of six hours ($350) or 10 hours ($550) per semester. Registration for graduate non-credit lessons is available only once per year. Auditions occur prior to the start of the fall semester. Lesson students are required to be enrolled in the lesson program for the entire academic year. An audition is required for placement. All students wishing to take lessons need to fill out the Music Lessons Request Form below. There is no refund for lessons missed, and the full year will be charged unless students drop the lessons before the deadline using the Lesson Drop Form. Withdrawing from Lessons + General Policies Toggle Teaching arrangements are made in the fall for the entire academic year. The Lessons Drop Form must be submitted if the student does not intend to continue studying in either the fall or spring semester. There is no charge for dropping lessons by the following dates: September 11, 2020, for the fall term . Students who drop lessons after this dates will not be reimbursed. Refunds are not issued on a per-lesson basis for missed lessons. Lessons cannot be rolled-over from one semester to the next. Please report to Professor Kyung Yu ((kyung.yu@yale.edu) immediately if your instructor fails to keep lesson appointments. Music Lessons Forms Request an Audition Request an Audition Music Lessons Request Form lesson request form Music Lessons Drop Form lesson drop form Explore YSM Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Tel 203 432-0822 musinst@yale.edu 15 Hillhouse Avenue New Haven, CT 06511 Quick Links Become a Collection Member Concerts at the Collection Media Production at YSM Follow Us See YSM Directory Buy Concert Tickets General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use