Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | College of Music Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU College of Music Toggle navigation Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Home Programs Performance Voice Voice VaLeRie M. Trujillo - Coordinator of Voice and Opera Our goal is to provide singers, directors, and coaches with comprehensive training to set them up for success in whatever they pursue. Whatever career in classical voice, opera direction, or opera coaching you wish to attain, the undergraduate and graduate programs at Florida State University College of Music will assist you in reaching your goals. Singers who graduated from our voice programs are performing in opera houses and professional choral ensembles throughout the world, teaching in respected colleges and universities, and winning prestigious awards and competitions. Directors and pianist-coaches from our graduate opera programs are also working in every level of the professional opera world. All voice performance and opera majors receive individual lessons from experienced artist faculty members throughout their education, and performance opportunities abound in opera, oratorio, choral ensembles, and recitals. The programs of study are designed to provide students with comprehensive training and experience in foreign languages and diction, pedagogy, performance, and repertoire. Our goal is to equip students with all of the skills and artistry necessary for success in today's professional arena, and our worldwide reputation attests to the success of our graduates. Faculty List Student Successes Teaching Placements Degree Programs Bachelor of Music in Performance Bachelor of Arts in Music Sacred Music Emphasis Master of Music in Performance Master of Music in Opera Production Opera Coaching Opera Directing Doctor of Music in Performance Specialized Studies Programs* Performance Sacred Music * - For degree-seeking College of Music students only Recent Guests Learn More Choral Ensembles Learn More FSU Opera Learn More × Graduate Placement Singers with degrees in voice and opera from FSU have found careers performing in major opera houses throughout the world and teaching in our nation's finest music schools and conservatories. Our graduates have also gone on to further study in all the major universities and conservatories, including The Julliard School, Manhattan School of Music, Eastman School of Music, and University of Cincinnati -- College-Conservatory of Music. We have graduates performing internationally at the Metropolitan Opera, San Francisco Opera, Wiener Statsoper, Santa Fe Opera as well as many regional companies. Many of our graduates hold academic positions across the United States. Close × Recent Guests The College of Music and the Voice and Opera program regularly host leading professionals from the world of opera and vocal arts. Recent guests have included: Renée Fleming · Stephanie Blythe · Ricky Ian Gordon · Marilyn Horne · Graham Johnson · The King's Singers · Lenore Rosenberg Close title-inside title-centered 2 Legacy Sort 1 Legacy Priority 21 FSU College of Music 122 N. Copeland St Tallahassee, FL 32306 Main Office: 850-644-3424 Admissions: 850-644-6102 Box Office: 850-644-6500 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Visit on social media @musicFSU © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media