Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu COVID-19 Resources 2021-2022 Important Spring 2022 updates For the latest guidance, please read the Messages from the Dean. read now Close Information for students, faculty, and staff Please visit this page regularly for updates as information is subject to change due to the COVID-19 pandemic. For questions or concerns, please contact us at yalemusic.info@yale.edu. our promise to you As a graduate school of music for performers and composers, the school values private lesson instruction, chamber music, and large ensembles as well as theory, history, and other academic classes. In the decision to return to campus during the 2021-2022 academic year, the school aims to successfully provide students with the ability to matriculate and complete requirements towards graduation with the fall semester coursework. The main objectives for the following return to YSM plans are: to provide appropriate courses and activities commensurate with the degree requirements of YSM to ensure facilities are equipped with the proper risk mitigation plans against COVID-19 infection to provide technology with high-quality sound as an effective alternative to in-person instruction message center Messages from the Dean go to messages Toggle Throughout the year, the Dean of the Yale School of Music sends important announcements and other communications to students, faculty, staff, and other members of the Yale community regarding events on and off campus, policy changes, calendar updates, and other critical news. Messages from the Dean's Office are archived here. Student Resources Vaccination requirement Toggle Vaccination requirement The university requires every student, faculty, and staff member to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19 (or to have recieved a vaccination exemption from the university). Please note that being fully vaccinated allows individuals to engage in the widest range of activities permitted by the university, while individuals with a vaccination exemption will be required to abide by strict health and safety precautions which will significantly restrict their ability to participate in some activities. Fall activity for fully vaccinated individuals Toggle Fall activity for fully vaccinated individuals The university will allow fully vaccinated Yale School of Music students, faculty, and staff to engage in the following activity for the fall semester, beginning on Aug. 30: All activity will take place in-person. Fully vaccinated individuals will not be required to physically distance on campus, including while participating in classes, lessons, coachings, chamber music, and large ensemble activity. The university’s current mask policy requires everyone (including fully vaccinated individuals) to be masked at all times while indoors on campus except when using individual spaces. Until such time as the transmission rate in New Haven County declines and the university can amend the mask requirement, this means that wind and brass players will wear slit masks and use bell covers while playing, and singers will be masked while singing. Large ensembles comprised of Yale community members, such as the Yale Philharmonia, will return to their pre-pandemic sizes. Room capacities will return to the standard limits set by the fire marshal. Classes and rehearsals will take place for their standard duration, at their regular times and in their usual locations. Student and faculty performances will take place. For the fall semester, only Yale ID holders will be permitted to attend. Initial events will be open to only YSM and ISM students, faculty, and staff, and audiences will be gradually expanded to include other members of the Yale community. Guest performances will not take place in the fall. Individuals must swipe into facilities with their Yale ID but are not required to check in and out with building monitors. ArtsVision reservations will still be required for most YSM spaces, and reservations for some ISM spaces will still be required through appropriate ISM calendaring. The daily health check will no longer be required. Weekly testing may still be required, depending on public health conditions. Please note that the university may implement additional health and safety precautions at various times during the term as conditions warrant. Prior to engaging in in-person activity, all fully vaccinated individuals are required to: Have documentation of a verified full vaccination against COVID-19 on file with the university by August 1. It is essential that you submit your vaccination record immediately if you have not done so already. We understand that many international students will be unable to be vaccinated before arriving in New Haven; please see this FAQ from OISS for additional guidance. Students must submit the YSM arrival form by Aug. 6. Complete any online COVID-19 safety training (details will be provided in August). Sign the Fall 2021 Compact (students: links will be provided in August) or review the Expectations (faculty/staff). If arriving from another country, complete arrival testing. If arriving from another state, arrival (gateway) testing is recommended but is only required for students residing in Yale housing. If you have questions about any of the requirements above, please contact the YSM Health and Safety Team at yalemusic.info@yale.edu. Requirements for unvaccinated individuals who receive a vaccination exemption Toggle Requirements for unvaccinated individuals who receive a vaccination exemption The permissions and policies described above apply ONLY to fully vaccinated individuals. The university is granting a limited number of exemptions (medical, religious, or strongly held personal belief) to the vaccination requirement. Unvaccinated individuals who are granted a vaccination exemption will be required to abide by strict university health and safety protocols including but not limited to: possible restrictions on participation in certain activities limitations of access to certain events, spaces, and roles must be masked and physically distanced at all times must receive a mandatory COVID-19 test twice a week If you have received or will be applying for an exemption, please contact Krista Johnson at krista.johnson@yale.edu immediately for more details and to discuss your options for the 2021-2022 academic year; students, please note that deferral or a leave of absence may be possible. Mandatory training Toggle The online COVID-19 training program for students has been updated for fall 2021. All students—except for those who completed the spring 2021 training—are required to complete the Student Return to Campus COVID-19 Training. Community Compact Toggle All students are required to read and sign the Fall 2021 Compact, even if they signed last year’s compacts. Gateway testing Toggle Gateway testing is required for the following students: All students living in certain graduate dorms (Helen Hadley, Harkness, Baker, 254 and 276 Prospect, and 272 Elm) All students arriving from out-of-state locations Students arriving from outside of the U.S. must also get a second test 3-5 days after arrival Unvaccinated students with exemptions (or those with vaccination underway upon arrival) Please see your email for detailed instructions from the YSM H&S team Once you have completed all Gateway testing, please submit this form to confirm. Routine weekly testing Toggle In consideration of the risks posed by asymptomatic COVID-19 due to the Delta variant, we have now determined that all fully vaccinated YSM students will be required to test once weekly, at least through the end of September. This surveillance approach, which will also apply to all undergraduates and residents of Yale graduate dormitories regardless of school, will allow us to assess the status of our vaccinated students and to identify possible asymptomatic infection early. We will update you in late September as to whether the testing requirement will be extended. Once you have completed your gateway test, you should plan to self-schedule a weekly test at the site of your choice through https://covidtesting.yale.edu. For full guidance on the testing process, go to the Yale COVID-19 Screening Program web page. You may do your weekly test any day of the week but should not let more than 7 days pass between tests; you will be notified on day 8 if you fail to schedule a test. Be sure to register for your MyChart account if you have not done so already. (A registration code was sent to new students on August 3; search your email for messages from Yale Health; you may also request one through the link above). We appreciate your patience with these evolving policies. If you have questions, you may contact the YSM Health and Safety Team at yalemusic.info@yale.edu or for clinical questions contact the Campus COVID Resource Line at 203-432-6604. Additional guidance Toggle The university continues to monitor the state of the pandemic closely and will implement additional health and safety measures as necessary in response to changes in conditions. As a public health precaution, most activities involving non-Yale individuals and external venues are not yet permitted. Further guidance is expected from the university in August and early autumn about when the following activities can resume, and what precautions will apply. Music in Schools Initiative: Yale students are not yet allowed to teach public school students in off-campus locations, and public-school students are not yet allowed to use YSM spaces for MISI rehearsals and lessons Collection of Music Instruments: not yet open for visits Non-Yale affiliated audience members are not yet allowed to attend Yale events; we hope that their attendance will be permitted in the spring. Non-Yale-affiliated community members are not yet allowed to participate in Camerata. Off-campus performances are not yet permitted. Health and wellness Toggle If you experience fever, cough, or difficulty breathing, stay home and contact a healthcare provider for guidance—do not go to a health care facility before you have called your health care provider or a hospital emergency room for instructions. If you are a Yale student or Yale Health member, you should contact Internal Medicine (203-432-0038), Student Health (203-432-0312), or Pediatrics (203-432-0206). For nights and weekends, please call Yale Health Acute Care (203-432-0123). If you are an Aetna member or have other healthcare coverage, please contact your physician. All members of the Yale community may also contact the Campus COVID Resource Line (203-432-6604). Avoid contact with others to limit spread. Cover your cough/sneeze with a tissue or sleeve, not your hands. Wash your hands with soap and water after coughing, sneezing, and blowing your nose. (See CDC handwashing video.) Use alcohol-based hand sanitizer if soap and water are unavailable. Wear a face mask or face covering to minimize the risk of spread of infection. If you are diagnosed with COVID-19 at any time, please call the Campus COVID Resource Line (203-432-6604), so we can initiate contact tracing and other infection control measures. Faculty and Staff Resources Faculty and staff should reference the student resources information above. Below is additional information pertinent to the return of faculty and staff to campus. Statement of Expectations for faculty and staff read the statement Toggle All faculty and staff are asked to read and adhere to the university’s Statement of Expectations, which has been updated for the spring semester Workplace guidance view FAQs Toggle Yale University has developed protocols for the phased return to campus that are consistent with federal, state, and local public health guidance. Employees with specific questions should consult with their managers or the Employee Service Center at (203) 432-5552. Managers are strongly encouraged to contact their HR Generalist to consult on their workforce planning, as there may be contractual and policy implications. For workplace guidance, as well as a list of resources available to support staff who are managing work and family responsibilities through the COVID-19 pandemic, please visit COVID-19 Workplace Guidance: Includes resources for childcare, wellness, eldercare, disabilities, and more. What to Expect When You Are Approved to Return to Work On Campus FAQs Fall 2021 COVID-19 training training Toggle The training program for faculty and staff has been updated for fall 2021. All faculty, staff, and trainees—except for those who completed the spring 2021 training—must take the revised 2021 COVID-19: Working at Campus training. Voluntary testing Toggle Although YSM faculty and staff are not required to engage in mandatory weekly testing, you are strongly encouraged to receive regular and frequent voluntary testing. You can self-schedule a testing appointment through Yale’s screening program at any time—and at no cost—especially in the event of possible exposure or if experiencing symptoms of COVID-19. Yale employees with Yale Health insurance may schedule an appointment for a dependent provided your dependent has a MyChart account (or you have a MyChart proxy for your minor child under age 18). More information Yale Health Resources Toggle Campus COVID Resource Line: 203-432-6604, toll free 866-924-9253 Frequently Asked Questions COVID-19 Student Information Yale Mental Health & Counseling Yale Health website Managing Stress University Resources Toggle Yale COVID-19 FAQs Social distancing and occupancy Appropriate use of face coverings Compliant cleaning and disinfecting protocols Required training for Yale community members prior to return to campus Conducting daily health checks COVID-19 testing requirements Contact tracing Reporting concerns regarding violations of health and safety standards Travel guidance, visitors to campus, events and group gatherings Community Compact Study at YSM Tel 203 432-4155 gradmusic.admissions@yale.edu Mailing Address Yale School of Music PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 FedEx, UPS, or DHL Yale School of Music 98 Wall Street New Haven, CT 06511 Reminders Online application opens on September 15 Applications due on December 1 Live auditions (invite only) mid- to late-February Final decision deadline April 15 Quick Links How to Apply Student Groups + Culture Admissions FAQs Follow Us See YSM Directory How to Apply General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use