Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Music Department of Music Contact Us Facebook Music@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Back to Top Nav Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP Back to Top Nav News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Michael A. Casey |Professor Academic Appointments Professor of Music Professor of Computer Science Connect with Us YouTube Michael Casey is an international award-winning composer (IMEB Bourges, NEWCOMP) and a researcher in the fields of music informatics, music and AI, machine listening, and the cognitive neuroscience of music. His work aims to reveal the effects of music on the body and the brain, thereby inspiring new forms of sonic creativity for health applications. He has received funding from the National Science Foundation (NSF), the Mellon Foundation, the Neukom Institute for Computational Science, Google Inc., Yahoo Inc., the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC, UK), and the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH). He is former chair of the department of music and director of the MA program in Digital Musics at Dartmouth. Personal Website Contact Michael.A.Casey@Dartmouth.edu 603 646-9609 Hallgarten Hall, Room 103 HB 6242 Department(s) Music, Computer Science, Cognitive Science Education B.A. (Hons) Music, University of East Anglia, UK A.M. Electroacoustic Music, Dartmouth College, USA Ph.D. MIT Media Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, USA Areas of Expertise Music, Neuroscience, and Wellbeing /Creative AI Selected Publications Feng, Y. and Casey, M. Evoked Responses to Note Onsets and Phrase Boundaries in Mozart's K448, Scientific Reports, accepted. TBP June, 2022. May, L., Halpern, A., Paulsen, S., and Casey, M. Imagined Scale Relationships Decoded from Auditory Cortex. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience. [Accepted] TBP, 2022 Casey, M., Quon, R., and Jobst, B., Eliciting neural mechanisms of music medicine for epilepsy, Interdisciplinary Science Reviews, 47:1, March 24, 2022 Chew, E., ..., Casey, M., Lambiase, P., et al. How Music Can Literally Heal the Heart, Scientific American, September 18, 2021. Quon, R., Casey, M., Jobst, B., et al. Musical Components Important for the Mozart K448 Effect in Epilepsy, Scientific Reports, September 16, 2021. May, L. and Casey, M, Decoding Imagined Sound, in Paulo C. Chagas and Cecilia Wu (Eds.), Sounds From Within: Phenomenology and Practice, Springer Humanities, 2021. Quon RJ, ..., Casey MA, Jobst BC. 40-Hz auditory stimulation for intracranial interictal activity: A pilot study. Clinical Trial, Acta Neurologica Scan. 2021 + View more Works In Progress I am currently working on projects in Music and Medicine, Creative AI, and the Cognitive Neuroscience of Music and Imagination. Videos Decoding absolute and relative pitch imagery in the auditory pathway, Center for Cognitive Neuroscience, Dartmouth Music and the Brain, Montshire Museum of Science Perspectives: Examining Complex Ecological Dynamics through Arts, Humanities and Science Integration Mapping Mental Representations of Music with fMRI and MIR, Cogmir 2021 Keynote Talk Jones Seminar: From Vinyl to YouTube, Thayer School of Engineering PreviousNext Courses MUS008 Programming interactive Art and Music MUS14 Music and Medicine MUS103 Sound Analysis and Synthesis Related Links Bregman Music and Affective Sound Lab (BMARS) Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Music Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback