Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Music Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events Search Department of Music Concentration Breadcrumb Home Undergraduate Sub Navigation In This Section Concentration Concentration Requirements Declaring the Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Concentration Our revised concentration offers a single, flexible set of requirements that can be tailored to each individual student’s interests. Prior to 2019, Music concentrators had to pursue one of three tracks: History/Theory/Composition, Ethnomusicology, or Computer Music and Multimedia. Our revised concentration offers a single, flexible set of requirements that can be tailored to each individual student’s interests. There were two principal considerations driving this change. First, we wanted to give students the flexibility to chart their own pathway through our curriculum. A jazz pianist can learn to compose experimental concert music, a classically trained cellist can gain experience in studio production, or a musical theater performer can develop an interest in Latin American music, popular music theory, or instrument building. Students can choose courses that reflect their interests while expanding their intellectual and creative horizons. Second, our intention was to make the concentration more accessible to students with a wide variety of backgrounds and goals. A sitar player, a DJ, or an aspiring singer-songwriter with no prior experience with music notation can all develop their musicianship fundamentals at Brown and flourish in the Music concentration. Previous Concentrations Any course of study that could be undertaken in our previous concentration structure remains possible. A student interested in Computer Music and Multimedia, for instance, can still take the foundational courses in that area—Computers and Music (MUSC 0200), Recording Studio as Compositional Tool (MUSC 1200), and Real-Time Systems (MUSC 1210)—as well as more advanced course offerings at the MUSC 12XX and MUSC 22XX level. The difference is that we no longer require our concentrators to follow a particular track. Music Performance Performance ensembles and individual lessons through the Applied Music Program can be taken for half a credit per semester. Up to four half-credits in performance (i.e., two course credits) can be applied towards the ten credits required for the Music concentration. There is no limit on the number of half-credit performance courses that can be counted towards the 30 credits required for the Brown degree. It is possible to participate in ensembles on a not-for-credit basis. Some students elect to do so if they are already enrolled in five credits (the maximum permitted at Brown) in a given semester. In Chamber Music, at least one student in each group must be enrolled for course credit. Brown does not offer a separate concentration in music performance, but our program offers opportunities for rigorous training through private lessons, ensembles, and coursework in music theory and musicianship. Some of our students go on to pursue graduate degrees at conservatories and careers as performers. Non-Music Concentrators All Music Department courses are open to all Brown students, provided they have satisfied the prerequisites. Participation in ensembles and the Applied Music Program is determined by audition, and equal consideration is given to concentrators and non-concentrators. In fact, most of the students who perform in our ensembles concentrate in fields other than Music. Some of our ensembles, including Javanese Gamelan and Ghanaian Drumming and Dancing, require no prior experience in that musical tradition. Advising Personalized advising is integral to our program. Prospective concentrators work with the Director of Undergraduate Studies to devise a course of study that supports the student’s goals in Music. Once the concentration declaration is approved, the student is paired with a faculty Concentration Advisor who can help refine and revise the course plan throughout the student’s time at Brown. In the senior year, students work with a capstone or thesis advisor (who may or may not be the same person as the Concentration Advisor) to undertake a culminating project in the concentration. Additional information Concentration Requirements The music concentration requires ten (10) course credits including Music Theory, Music Scholarship, Production and Advanced Theory and Electives. Declaring the Concentration The declaration consists of a 500-1000 word personal statement, a course plan, and responses to a few shorter essay prompts (including a question about the proposed senior project). Undergraduate Courses The Department of Music offers a diverse range of courses from music history to advanced Ghanaian drumming and dancing. Explore our Undergraduate course listing for Spring 2022. Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Concentration Open details for Concentration Bookmark this Page