Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Music Department of Music Contact Us Facebook Music@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Back to Top Nav Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Back to Top Nav Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Back to Top Nav Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP Back to Top Nav News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series Back to Top Nav People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story Back to Top Nav Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Interested in Music at Dartmouth? Admissions and Arts Supplements Applicants for first-year admission with well-developed talent in the fine or performing arts—studio art, dance, theater, film and media studies, and/or music—who intend to participate in and/or study the arts, may submit supplementary materials for review by our faculty. These materials must be submitted via the Admissions Office's online portal. Please do not send your materials to the Department of Music. Further instructions on preparing and submitting the arts supplement may be found on the Undergraduate Admissions website. Arts Portfolio Instructions (PDF) Arts Portfolio Walkthrough Video NEW Music Major and Minor Requirements Beginning AY 2021-22, we will offer an open course count model for our concentrations: MUS 99 (Proseminar) plus 10 courses for the Major; or 7 courses for the Minor. More details here. New Major and Minor Flyer (PDF) Key Areas of Study Guide (PDF) 2021-2022 AY Course Offerings Our current academic year course offerings are posted on our website. Please note that our courses are subject to change, so continue to check our website along with the Registrar's Office Timetable of Class Meetings often. A complete listing of music courses are posted in the Organization, Regulations, and Courses (ORC). Should I take MUS 1 or MUS 20? Both MUS 1 and MUS 20 are intended as welcoming and stimulating introductions to music theory at Dartmouth. There is no placement test for either class. Instead, every student may determine for themselves which course is most suitable. MUS 20 is designed for students with some basic knowledge of music theory (staff notation, simple scales and chords, etc.), whereas MUS 1 assumes no prior experience whatsoever. Practice Rooms There are 11 practice rooms available for use located in the lower level area of the Department of Music. Practice rooms are available during the hours of the Hopkins Center. No reservations are required. Please note that the grand pianos in rooms 35B, 35C, 36B, 36C are locked and limited to students enrolled in MUS 53 Keyboard Individual Instruction. Individual Instruction Program (IIP) For lesson inquiries and audition details for all instruments other than classical piano and voice, you must contact the appropriate IIP faculty member. Audition Date: Friday, September 10 Voice Auditions (IIP MUS 57) Audition details for Voice (IIP MUS 57) with our two voice instructors, Louis Burkot and Erma Mellinger, will be announced soon. Check back frequently for updates. Fall 2021 IIP MUS 57 Audition Sign-up Sheet Audition Date: Thursday, September 16 Classical Piano Auditions (IIP MUS 53) Audition procedure for Piano (IIP MUS 53, classical piano): Please contact Professor Sally Pinkas (Sally.Pinkas@dartmouth.edu) or Professor Greg Hayes (Gregory.M.Hayes@dartmouth.edu) as soon as possible to discuss MUS 53 auditions. Feel free to do so even if you are unsure whether you will be enrolling in MUS 53 during the fall term. Audition results will remain valid for the 21-22 academic year. Fall 2021 IIP MUS 53 Audition Sign-up Sheet MUS 99 Proseminar Professor Richard Beaudoin Offered: Fall 2021, ARR In this advanced seminar for junior and senior music majors, students will apply the knowledge they have acquired throughout their Dartmouth education. Instructors may choose to organize the proseminar around a broad theme (e.g., music & gender, music & politics, etc.). We will welcome guest lectures by various music faculty and visiting experts. Hopkins Center and Music Department Instrument and Locker Check-Out All requests must be made in advance. There are no walk-ups. Step 1: Fill out the Instrument and Locker Check-Out Form. Step 2: You will be contacted via email by Dr. Messier (brian.e.messier@dartmouth.edu) with the status of your request. Step 3: Once approved, you can check out your instrument(s) and/or locker key from Music Department Room 40 (basement level, map) during one of the following times: Thursday, September 9: 3-5pm Friday, September 10: 9am - 5pm Saturday September 11: 9-11am Sunday September 12: 9-11am Questions or Concerns? Please contact Dr. Messier at brian.e.messier@dartmouth.edu Performance Laboratories Performance Laboratories (Music 50) provide weekly coaching and instruction in diverse forms of music making, and are open by audition to all Dartmouth students. Course work centers on musical readings and informal performance of selected repertoire chosen both for its intrinsic interest and for its relevance to the contents of course syllabi within the Music Department. Performance laboratories may be taken for credit (three terms equals one credit) or on a not-for-credit basis. Subject to space availability, students may enroll in different laboratories during different terms. Terms of enrollment need not be consecutive. Performance Laboratories are offered fall, winter, and spring: Chamber Music Contemporary Music Jazz Improvisation Opera MUS 50 Opera Lab Information Sheet Video of MUS 50 Opera Lab Rehearsal For further information and director contact details, please visit our Performance Laboratories' page. Hopkins Center Ensembles Auditions Contact the appropriate ensemble director for Hopkins Center Ensembles audition details. Student Recitals Student recitals occur in the spring term. Students work closely with their Individual Instruction Program (IIP) instructors on recital preparation, including scheduling rehearsals, hiring accompaniment, preparing a program, and creating publicity materials. Student recitals are posted on the Department of Music's YouTube channel. Honors Program The Honors Program provides an opportunity for work of greater scope and depth than the Music Department's standard course offerings. Honors projects typically take the form of independent work that is undertaken over at least two terms, and supervised by one or more members of the music faculty. Please see example below of one 2020 honors thesis. Mikrá Yiánnena: Romaniote Chanting for Shabbat Evening in Greece and New York City Gabriel A. Zuckerberg Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Honors Funding Contact Us Course Catalog Individual Instruction Program (IIP) Music Faculty Department Map Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Music Undergraduate Music at Dartmouth Major and Minor Courses Spring 2022 Summer 2022 Fall 2022 Winter 2023 Spring 2023 Honors Honors Projects Funding Graduate Overview Apply People Current Students Performance Overview Individual Instruction Student Recitals Performance Laboratories Hopkins Center Ensembles Practice Rooms Instruments and Lockers Foreign Study Overview London FSP Vienna FSP News & Events News Events Arts Awards Leonard J. Reade Lecture Vaughan Recital Series People Faculty and Staff Performance Faculty Majors and Minors Alumni Stories Tell Us Your Story My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback