Skip to main content Open Search Toggle Main Menu Close Menu Study Open Menu About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Open Menu Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Open Menu Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Browse People Events News Multimedia Collection Quick Links YSM Students ArtsVision Login View Staff Directory Watch Livestream Support YSM Study About YSM Admissions Degrees + Programs How to Apply Financial Aid Academic Policies Meet our Faculty Study at Norfolk Admissions FAQ Areas of Study Brass Composition Conducting Guitar Harp Harpsichord Organ Percussion Piano Strings Voice Woodwinds Performance Opportunities Campus Life Academic Calendar Campus + Facilities Career Strategies Commencement COVID-19 Update Life at Yale Messages from the Dean New Student Checklist Student Employment Plan Your Visit Explore Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Exhibits at the Collection Concerts + Events at the Collection Research Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Partner Institutions + Resources Affiliate Schools Creative Technologies Libraries + Collections Music Lessons Program Engage Concerts at YSM Spring 2022 Audience Policy Calendar Concert Series Livestream Box Office Plan Your Visit Support + Join Norfolk Chamber Music Festival / Yale Summer School of Music About Norfolk Concerts + Events at Norfolk Box Office Study at Norfolk Chamber Music Session Chamber Choir + Choral Conducting Workshop New Music Workshop Life at Norfolk Plan Your Visit Support + Join Forms + FAQs Music in Schools Initiative About Music in Schools New Haven Community All-City Ensembles Morse Summer Music Academy MorseOnline YSM Students Symposium Forms + FAQs Alumni Hub Giving + Membership Programs Open Search Toggle Main Menu Livestream Close Next Live Stream in: Days Hours Minutes Seconds The stream typically comes live 15 minutes prior to the concert start time. Please contact us at live@yale.edu with questions or comments about your streaming experience. The stream becomes live approximately 15 minutes prior to the concert start time. Please contact streaming@yale.edu with questions or comments about your streaming experience. Troubleshooting + Support Toggle I see an error. If you see, “Cannot load M3U8: 400 Bad Request” in the player window, it means that the live stream has not yet been turned on. The stream is typically turned on 15 minutes before the start of the concert. Image occasionally goes black or is blurry. The image may initially appear blurry for 10-15 seconds as the system determines the appropriate streaming quality level for your computer or mobile device. Although the streaming system should automatically serve you the ideal quality your internet connection speed, you can manually select a quality by clicking on the “HD” button in the lower right corner of the player window. We suggest keeping it on “Auto” unless you are having trouble. Selecting too high of a level will cause your stream to be interrupted or freeze. Computer + device requirements Our live streaming service is designed to work across computers (Mac and Windows), mobile devices running Apple iOS or Android (iPads, Android tablets, iPhones and Android phones), and many smart TVs. For best results, make sure your computer or device’s software is up to date. Recommended computer browsers include: Google Chrome, Firefox, and Safari. Internet Explorer is not recommended due to occasional errors. Can I watch a concert on my tv with Chromecast or Airplay? Yes; however, this feature relies on having a strong wireless signal. You should see a Chromecast or Airplay icon in the lower right corner of the website player window if your computer or mobile device recognizes a Goole Chromecast, Amazon FireTV, Chromecast-enabled TV, or Apple TV on your home network. Change your TV to the appropriate input, and then click the Chromecast or Airplay icon in the player window on your computer or mobile device. In a few moments, you should see the image on your TV. If it does not work, please make sure that you mobile device’s Wi-Fi is turned on. I don’t hear any sound. Please confirm that your device’s volume is turned up and not muted. If you’re on a computer, also click on the speaker icon in the lower left corner of the player window and make sure the the volume is turned up. If you see the speaker icon with an X next to it, your player is muted. Click the icon to unmute. The sound is too quiet. The live stream may sound quieter than other content on the internet or files on your computer. Classical music has a wide range between the loudest and quietest sounds. For the best experience, make sure that your device volume and the player volume are not set to a low volume. Consider using headphones or connecting to a stereo system. Can I watch past concerts? Due to licensing and performance restrictions, concerts are only viewable live. We are unable to offer archived concerts but do post a variety of on-demand concerts in our multimedia library. More Livestream Opportunities Stream concerts from the Collection of Musical Instruments, Norfolk Chamber Music Festival, and student recitals from wherever you are! Student Recitals Experience the musical virtuosity of the next generations' cultural leaders from anywhere in the world using the student recitals livestream. The Yale School of Music hosts over 100 student recitals annually. watch livestream watch livestream Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Each summer, the Norfolk Chamber Music Festival/Yale Summer School of Music presents an exciting season of concerts with performances by internationally renowned and up-and-coming chamber musicians. watch livestream watch livestream Collection of Musical Instruments View the Collection of Musical Instruments' restored instruments in performance, as well as groups using period instruments and early vocal techniques, on the Collection livestream. Concerts feature YSM students and faculty and guest artists from around the world. watch livestream watch livestream Commencement Concert Program Download Commencement Ceremony Program Download Engage with YSM Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Tel 860 542-3000 norfolk@yale.edu Music in Schools Initiative musicinschools@yale.edu YSM Box Office concerts@yale.edu Quick Links Alumni Hub Concerts at Norfolk Concerts at YSM Giving at YSM Music in Schools Initiative Follow Us See YSM Directory Buy Concert Tickets General Inquiries YSM Offices Tel 203 432-1965 YSM Box Office Tel 203 432-4158 PO Box 208246 New Haven, CT 06520-8246 Discover Yale School of Music Morris Steinert Collection of Musical Instruments Norfolk Chamber Music Festival Music in Schools Initiative Partner Institutions + Resources Quick Links For YSM Alumni Music Lessons Program Hire a YSM Student Music Teacher Hire a Yale Musician YSM Box Office Livestream Yale Sites Yale Department of Music Institute of Sacred Music University Libraries Arts Calendar Contact Us © 2022 YSM | All rights reserved. Accessibility at Yale Terms of Use