Skip to Main Content Brown University Department of Music Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events Search Department of Music Ensembles Breadcrumb Home Music Making Sub Navigation In This Section Ensembles Chamber Music Chorus Ghanaian Drumming Javanese Gamelan Jazz Band Old-Time String Band Orchestra Wind Symphony World Music Ensemble Lessons Ensembles Students may choose to join one of the department's many performing groups Chamber Music Participation in Chamber Music Performance is open to all undergraduate and graduate students, as well as RISD students. Chorus The Brown University Chorus is a great way to meet a wide range of undergraduate and graduate students, while working toward a high artistic goal of beautiful singing. Ghanaian Drumming Ghanaian Drumming and Dancing (MUSC0640/0641) is a dynamic course in the performance of contemporary drumming and dancing styles of West Africa. Javanese Gamelan Gongs and percussion instruments made of tuned metal are found throughout Southeast Asia. In Java (an island in the Republic of Indonesia), ensembles built around such instruments are called gamelan. Jazz Band Jazz at Brown has a history as old as the style itself. Old-Time String Band Fiddlers, banjo-players, mandolinists and guitarists play the high, lonesome sounds of traditional Southern Appalachian Mountain music in Brown's old-time string band. Orchestra Participation in the Brown University Orchestra is open to all members of the Brown community: undergraduate and graduate students, faculty, and staff. Wind Symphony There is no musical institution more imbedded in American history than a concert band. With its strong sense of community and participatory consensus, the Brown University Wind Symphony reflects the unique ethos of the college itself. World Music Ensemble This ensemble focuses on global percussive and song traditions, especially those of the African diaspora (based on instructor's vast musical experiences). Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Visit Brown Campus Map A to Z Contact Us Footer Navigation News Events Campus Safety Accessibility Careers at Brown The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Contact History Diversity & Inclusion Our Facilities Undergraduate Concentration Undergraduate Courses Departmental Honors Graduate Graduate Programs Graduate Courses Application Requirements Financial Support Graduate Program FAQ Music Making Ensembles Lessons People Faculty Teaching Associates Staff Graduate Students Concentrators Alumni News Events This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Ensembles Open details for Ensembles Bookmark this Page