Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | College of Music Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU College of Music Toggle navigation Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Home Programs Music Education Music Education Clifford Madsen - COORDINATOR OF MUSIC EDUCATION/MUSIC THERAPY/CONTEMPORARY MEDIA Students study with one of largest and most prestigious Music Education faculty in the world, leading to careers in classrooms and colleges worldwide. The Music Education program at Florida State University is considered to be one of the premier music education program in the United States. Preparation in music education at FSU is based upon the premise that every student ought to have the best instruction possible. This premise implies that every teacher ought to be committed to the subject of music and its use with people. Putting this premise to practice has enabled FSU's music education program to have a 100% job placement rate as graduates find positions in school districts across the United States, and indeed around the world. The primary focuses within the program are elementary and general music education, as well as middle school and high school chorus, orchestra and band. Students study with one of the largest and most prestigious faculty in the world. Among the classes in which graduates receive instruction are: teaching and learning methods, music literature, conducting, classroom organization and management, ear training, music theory, music history, and score preparation. Additionally, graduates receive significant real-life classroom teaching opportunities prior to student teaching. Consequently, FSU students are experienced teachers before they complete their degree program. The Bachelor of Music Education degree leads to K-12 Music teacher certification in the state of Florida. For career mobility certification recipients may apply for temporary teacher certification in all states that have reciprocal certification agreements with the Florida Department of Education. The College of Music recommends students to the university for conferral of the Bachelor of Music Education degree and the College of Education recommends all successful degree candidates to the Department of Education for teacher certification. Faculty List Graduate Placements Statement of Philosophy Degree Programs Bachelor of Music Education Choral Music Instrumental Music General Music Master of Music Education Full-time Program Summer-only Program Doctor of Philosophy in Music Education Concentrations available in any music education discipline, including areas such as: Choral Conducting Instrumental Conducting Music Therapy Piano Pedagogy String Education General Music Teacher Education Choral Music Education Instrumental Music Education Specialized Studies Programs * - For degree-seeking College of Music students only ** - For graduate students only College Teaching** Music Education and Leadership** Special Music Education* Faculty Research Learn More Summer Only Masters Program Learn More Organizations Learn More Orff-Schulwerk Learn More Choral Program Learn More Instrumental Program Learn More × Statement of Philosophy Selection and preparation in music education at Florida State University is based upon an important yet extremely simple premise--it is, that every person involved as a learner ought to have the best instruction possible. This premise implies that every teacher ought to be committed to the subject of music and its use with people. The strength of this commitment is evidenced by the academic and social behaviors of the prospective teacher in life, both in and out of the university environment, and is characterized by diligence in the pursuit of musical and academic excellence and active dedication to the improvement of the quality of life. For those who value knowledge, the learning process is perpetual throughout life's time. To be an effective music educator, one must develop: the ability to think, and therefore, value and discriminate, the ability to feel, and therefore, become sensitive to aesthetic qualities in music and life, and the courage to act, and therefore, translate those abilities to think and feel into overt behaviors. Successful music educators evidence personal qualities of leadership, intellectual curiosity, and social commitment. They approach life, music, and the teaching profession in a positive, imaginative, and enthusiastic way. The music teacher attempts to create a respect and desire for musical experiences, teaching people to react positively, listen responsively, and participate in a musically sensitive manner by providing a variety of musical experiences for those who will be consumers of music and those who will be music professionals. Toward this goal, music educators are stimulated by current research in music to seek, evaluate, and appropriately implement current ideas and developments in teaching music. They promote positive relationships with students, colleagues, and others. They are empathetic with people of differing social and ethnic backgrounds, and demonstrate mature attitudes and values in the operation of the instructional program. They consistently maximize student opportunities and accomplishments, and minimize self-aggrandizement and teacher dominance. Their public performances are part of instructional programs geared to helping students become sensitive to aesthetic elements in music. Music specialists must be prepared and eager to teach music to every child: the poor, ethnic minorities, children of the inner cities, persons with disabilities, and the highly gifted. In addition to personal competencies in music performance, improvisation, conducting, applied music, composing, arranging, analysis, history, repertoire, and other musical skills, they must have competencies in the teaching of music on all levels, nursery school through adult and continuing education programs. They must be exposed to techniques of teaching in the humanities, related arts, and general music areas, as well as, directing performance groups, studio teaching and group applied music lessons. Musicians are most successful as teachers if they understand current structures, systems, and practices in education. Concurrently, the music educator in this age of educational change and accountability must be able to express knowledge of teaching and learning, through verbal communication (oral and written) and through overt, demonstrable music and teaching behaviors. A general knowledge and understanding of history, science, art, philosophy, and communication serves to enhance one's ability to function effectively in contemporary society and facilitates greater understanding of the human condition. The final report of the Music Educators' National Conference on "Teacher Education in Music" states that general education should: help the student understand him/herself as a person, assist in the development of positive attitudes and penetrating insights toward others and the world, encourage acceptance of change and enable the student to approach new ideas with an open mind, provide the ability to apply appropriate evaluative techniques and establish an attitude of curiosity, and provide another dimension for the pre-service music educator by helping the student relate his/her own art to other related disciplines. The task of structuring and managing a musical environment in which individuals, regardless of ability level, may positively experience, successfully achieve, and hence, come to value the art of music, demands a breadth of knowledge and skills, as well as high levels of perception and sensitivity on the part of the music educator. The acquisition and development of these abilities requires an intellectual commitment that is realized in daily living and is maintained and strengthened during the years of training and throughout the professional career. The music education faculty at Florida State University College of Music is dedicated to the pursuit of these goals, both for themselves and for their students. Close × Graduate Placement Our Music Education program maintains a 100% graduate placement rate. Our graduates teach at all educational levels, elementary school through college/university, and maintain some of the finest music programs not only throughout Florida, but across the country. Close title-inside title-centered 2 Legacy Sort 9 Legacy Priority 0 FSU College of Music 122 N. Copeland St Tallahassee, FL 32306 Main Office: 850-644-3424 Admissions: 850-644-6102 Box Office: 850-644-6500 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Visit on social media @musicFSU © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media