Skip to main content Florida State University FSU | College of Music Webmail Search FSU Navigation This Site FSU Sites Faculty & Staff Directory Departments & Services Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Academics Admissions Research Faculty Students Veterans Support FSU College of Music Toggle navigation Programs Ensembles People Admissions Facilities Tickets Home Programs Performance Music Theatre Music Theatre Alisa Hauser - Program Director of Music Theatre The success of the music theatre program is demonstrated by its many graduates employed on Broadway and in national touring productions, regional theatres, and other venues. The FSU College of Music's Music Theatre Program is designed to create music theatre performers who are truly "triple threats" and who are prepared to work professionally when they have completed the program. Although students study in each area separately, the strength of the program is in its joint nature, allowing students and faculty to explore the connections that unite singing, acting, and dancing. In addition to performing in the regular music theatre productions, music theatre students are encouraged to perform in as many venues as possible. The College of Music offers a wide range of performance opportunities, including FSU Opera and numerous choral and instrumental ensembles. In addition, music theatre students have danced in FSU Dance productions and performed in plays by such authors as Shakespeare and Chekhov on The Mainstage. Each year, graduating students present a Senior Showcase in New York City, performing for an audience of invited agents and casting directors, master teachers, producers, alumni, and friends. The FSU College of Music offers a Bachelor of Music in Performance (Music Theatre). Separately, the College of Fine Arts offers a Bachelor of Fine Arts in Music Theatre. For a comparison of the two degrees, click here. Please contact Professor Alisa Hauser, Program Director of Music Theatre, if you require further assistance. Professor Hauser can be reached at ahauser@fsu.edu. Degree Programs Bachelor of Music in Performance (Music Theatre) Faculty List Graduate Placements Ensembles Join us each year in May as graduating music theatre students join the School of Theatre's acting students for a Senior Showcase in New York City. Music theatre majors are pictured below in recent productions of The Addams Family and Beauty and the Beast at the School of Theatre at Florida State University. Photos by Bruce Palmer, University Communications (FSU). title-inside title-centered 2 Legacy Sort 1 Legacy Priority 0 FSU College of Music 122 N. Copeland St Tallahassee, FL 32306 Main Office: 850-644-3424 Admissions: 850-644-6102 Box Office: 850-644-6500 Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Visit on social media @musicFSU © Florida State University Tallahassee, FL 32306 FSU Directory Assistance Questions or Comments Privacy Policy Copyright Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube LinkedIn More FSU Social Media