Skip to page content Help Sign In Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay KU Directory KU Search Terms Search myKU HelpToggle Menu myKU Help myKU WelcomeToggle Menu myKU Login Quick Links myKU News and Updates Technical Service Updates My Identity Services KU Info myKU Help This portlet may not be moved Options Direct URL If you are looking for general technical support for services provided by Information Technology at KU, visit: Information Technology:Technology Support. Finding Content The content found within myKU is both rich and diverse. We've preloaded certain apps on the default dashboards based on the audience and general categorization. For example: Content for students related to their academic career can be found on the Academics dashboard. Employees looking for details and services provided by Human Resources can look to the Employees dashboard. These generalizations hold true most of the time, but there is plenty of content that isn't pre-loaded and, sometimes a single categorization fails to accurately capture how a diverse population thinks about an activity. Rather than overloading myKU with pre-defined tabs, and duplication we've outlined some tools to help users find content that, may not seem to be located where expected. Using the Site Index There is a site index at the bottom of each and every page within the myKU system. This site index has a list of every dashboard and all the content that is loaded to each of the dashboards in your personal layouts. Using the Search Box myKU comes with a powerful built in search engine that users can leverage to find apps they are struggling to find quickly. The search at the top of the page uses an auto-complete feature that begins the search as you type. If no direct matches are found, you can hit enter and the app provides what is more of a "Fuzzy Search" finding like items. Using the Apps Marketplace The App Marketplace is a showcase for all of the myKU apps that you as a user have access to in the portal. It is found by default on the Home dashboard once you've authenticated. You can use the search function to lookup specific apps your looking for. Another feature to aid in finding new content is to leverage the Categories that exist for the apps so you can browse smaller subsets. Clicking on the button titled "Categories" will reveal a sub-menu that contains the categories available within myKU Using the Customize Menu On each dashboard, there is a button with the text "Customize". This opens a menu that allows you the user to make changes to the layout of your current dashboard. It also allows you to search for apps using the search text box you you can also use the listed categories to look as smaller list of like apps. Managing Apps Back to Top What is a myKU App? myKU is built on a open source software project called uPortal. myKU allows the University to create apps for the KU community in a single location. myKU apps can be as simple as a quick link to get you to content hosted on other sites. They can also be to a fully realized app that allows students and academic advisors to manage their work and track their overall progress toward the completion of a given student's degree. We've preloaded dashboards with content grouped by categories that have evolved overtime based on user and constituent feedback. These arrangements may not meet your personal needs or be the most efficient for you personally. You can now rearrange the order of the apps on a given tab to achieve this optimized state. You can also move, add and in many cases even remove apps from the dashboards. Adding Apps to a Dashboard To add an app to a given dashboard you have to identify the app and for that, you have two options. Customize Menu App Marketplace Leveraging the customize menu is likely the most straight forward as you can initiate the add fro the dashboard you are attempting to modify using. myKU lets you add apps two ways: "Add button" or "Drag and Drop". In both cases, once you've found an app you wish to add, you move (your mouse or finger if appropriate) over the title bar above the app's description to initiate the move. Add Button Drag the App to the dashboard Moving Apps on a Dashboard On the category specific dashboards, the content cannot be removed. You can, however, move all of the myKU apps within the layouts. This will allow you to add and arrange the content that is more important to you to the top of the dashboard when that is beneficial. To initiate the move of an app on a layout, click on the options menu in the right hand corner of the given app and choose "Move this Portlet". Minimizing Apps on a Dashboard If you are not ready to remove an app from a layout, or it doesn't provide that option, you can still minimize the impact the app has on your layout by leveraging the Minimize feature. You can find this listed with the other app specific options in the top right hand corner of the app. Removing Apps from a Dashboard Apps that you've added to any dashboard, and all the apps on the home dashboard can be removed by selecting the "Remove" link found in the options menu in the upper right hand corner of the App you are interacting with. Managing Dashboards Back to Top What is a Dashboard? Within myKU, the primary pages linked from the blue navigation bar are referred to as dashboards. These dashboards are a each collection of apps. We've attempted to group these apps into related collections, around categories. In order to optimize your experience, myKU allows you as a user to add additional dashboards an to change the order of those dashboards in the site's nav. Adding a Dashboard You can add additional dashboards for customization at any point by clicking on the plus (+) button found on the far right of the primary dashboard navigation menu. When you click the plus (+) button, you'll be asked to rename the dashboard. When you've done this you'll be ready to customize the dashboard as needed. You are empowered to add and remove apps at will. You can also change the number of columns on the dashboard. Be advised: Some apps do not work well in small columns and, you may need to experiment to get layouts that work with the content. Moving a Dashboard Currently, the dashboards you have access to are in a default order, but this too can be customized to improve the experience for yourself. You can re-order the dashboards by hovering over the tab you to move. In the left hand corner you see as square composed of four lines. If you: Move your mouse over those line on the menu item you wish to move Left-click and hold Drag the dashboards into an order that is the better for you Removing a Dashboard The apps you add to myKU can be removed by hovering over the dashboard link in the horizontal menu. In the right had corner there is a "X". Clicking on this "X" will remove the dashboard. Only dashboards you add can be removed. NOTE: When you remove a dashboard the layout is the dashboard layout and all apps added to the dashboard will not be preserved. Reset your Dashboard Layouts At times you may want, or need to remove all of your myKU layout customizations. This is can be achieved quickly by leveraging the myKU "Reset My Layout" app. As described earlier in the help document, all myKU apps can be found using the customize menu and the Apps Dashboard. You can also use the "Search" tool located in the myKU header when your on any of the myKU Dashboards. Simply type the word "reset" into the search box and an auto-complete list will appear with a direct link to the myKU App. Follow the link provided to open the app and then follow the directions to reset your layout. NOTE: After you have completed the steps, you need to log out of myKU and back in to see the reset take affect. Back to Top The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX, civilrights@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses). Attachments ×Close Configuration ×Close Direct URL Close