| Skip to main content | The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay KU Directory Single Sign-On What is SSO? Enter your Online ID & Password Online ID: Password: CAPSLOCK key is turned on! Password Reset | Change password | Set up your Online ID For security reasons, please Log Out and Exit your web browser when you are done accessing services that require authentication! Or log in with: KUMC Login Access to electronic resources at the University of Kansas is restricted to employees, students, or other individuals authorized by the University or its affiliates. Use of this system is subject to all policies and procedures set forth by the University located at www.policy.ku.edu. Unauthorized use is prohibited and may result in administrative or legal action. The University may monitor the use of this system for purposes related to security management, system operations, and intellectual property compliance. Contact Information Technology itcsc@ku.edu 785-864-8080 Faculty/Staff Support Technology Support Centers Knowledge Base FAQs & More Virtual Service Desk Online Help Contact KU Lawrence, KS | Maps Academics Accessible KU Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Giving Jobs Safety The University of Kansas prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, ethnicity, religion, sex, national origin, age, ancestry, disability, status as a veteran, sexual orientation, marital status, parental status, gender identity, gender expression, and genetic information in the university's programs and activities. Retaliation is also prohibited by university policy. The following persons have been designated to handle inquiries regarding the nondiscrimination policies and are the Title IX coordinators for their respective campuses: Director of the Office of Institutional Opportunity & Access, IOA@ku.edu, Room 1082, Dole Human Development Center, 1000 Sunnyside Avenue, Lawrence, KS 66045, 785-864-6414, 711 TTY (for the Lawrence, Edwards, Parsons, Yoder, and Topeka campuses); Director, Equal Opportunity Office, Mail Stop 7004, 4330 Shawnee Mission Parkway, Fairway, KS 66205, 913-588-8011, 711 TTY (for the Wichita, Salina, and Kansas City, Kansas medical center campuses).