Ohio State nav bar Skip to main content The Ohio State University Help BuckeyeLink Map Find People Webmail Search Ohio State my.osu.edu Identity and Access Management New to Ohio State? Activate your Ohio State username Activate Now Current Users Current Users – Log In Ohio State username (lastname.#) or MedCenter ID (without the @osu.edu or @osumc.edu) Forget your username? Password (do NOT use Activation Code) Forget your password? My.osu.edu lets you manage your Ohio State digital identity: username, password, email delivery and more. Information You Should Know Learn how to activate your Ohio State username(link is external) or how to change your password(link is external) through these provided articles. To update your address, phone number or other personal information, employees should log in to Employee Self Service(link is external) and students should log in to BuckeyeLink(link is external). BuckeyePass BuckeyePass is a multi-factor authentication service that provides a second layer of security to your Ohio State account. Resources More About my.osu.edu (link is external) University Password Practices (link is external) Responsible Use Policy (link is external) System Status Page (link is external) IT Service Desk Request (link is external) Ohio State Wexner Medical Center IT Help Desk (link is external) This information system, including all related equipment, networks and network devices, are provided solely for use authorized by The Ohio State University. Use of this system constitutes consent to abide by The Ohio State’s Responsible Use of University Computing and Network Resources Policy (link is external) . The Ohio State University may monitor use of these information systems without notice. Unauthorized disclosure of information, or evidence of unauthorized use may be subject to administrative action, civil action, and/or criminal prosecution. Office of the Chief Information Officer Contact: IT Service Desk | Locations | Phone: 614-688-HELP (4357) | Text Telephone for the Deaf: 614-688-8743 For Ohio State Wexner Medical Center requests, contact Ohio State Wexner Medical Center IT Help Desk | Phone: 614-293-HELP (4357) If you have trouble accessing this page and need to request an alternate format, contact itservicedesk@osu.edu. idmmypd02 -- V6.2.0