UC Riverside MyUCR If you have your NetID and UCR password, Log In to your MyUCR account to see your official admission status. Forgot your password? If you applied for admission but have not created a MyUCR password, please locate the email sent to you from UC Riverside Undergraduate Admissions that contained log in instructions and a link to create a password. If you have already tried to create a password using that link but were unsuccessful, please contact BearHelp at (951) 827-4848 (IT4U). If you cannot locate the email, please submit an inquiry to the Office of Undergraduate Admissions at admissions.ucr.edu/ask. Forgot your username (NetID) or don’t have one? Please submit an inquiry to the office of Undergraduate Admissions at admissions.ucr.edu/ask. If you have not yet applied to UC Riverside, visit the Admission website to learn more about why UC Riverside is right for you. Get up close and personal with UC Riverside - Schedule a tour with a UCR student as your guide, or take a virtual tour! Have questions, check out our FAQ's page. University of California, Riverside 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 Tel: (951) 827-1012 UCR Library Campus Status Campus Store Career Opportunities Diversity Maps and Directions Visit UCR UNDERGRADUATE ADMISSIONS 900 University Ave. Riverside, CA 92521 tel: (951) 827-3411 fax: (951) 827-6344 questions: admissions.ucr.edu/ask Follow Us: Instagram Facebook Twitter Tumblr YouTube TikTok Related Links Apply to UC Riverside Athletics - Go Highlanders Events Calendar Financial Aid MyUCR - Admissions Portal Support UCR Students Tartan Soul Visit UC Riverside Disclaimer This information is accurate and reliable at time of posting but may change without notice. Please contact Undergraduate Admissions for the most up-to-date information. Learn about our privacy policy. Campus Security and Fire Safety Report The Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (Clery Act) requires UCR (as an institution of higher education receiving federal financial aid) to report specified crime statistics on college campuses and to provide other safety and crime information to all current and prospective students and employees. The Annual Security and Fire Safety Report is available on the Chief Compliance Office website. If you would like a paper copy of the Report, you may contact the Clery Coordinator via email at clery@ucr.edu or by phone at (951) 827-6223. Privacy Policy Terms and Conditions © Regents of the University of California