NetNutrition® TEST KITCHEN VERNEY-WOOLLEY REFECTORY MyMeal MyMeal is an online tool that can help you make smart, healthy choices in Brown dining units. Use it to: View menus among different units Plan healthy meals throughout the day Use the screening tools to identify foods with common allergens How to Use MyMeal Select a Dining Unit, a station (Salad Bar, Deli, Daily Menu etc.), a day, and a meal. Check the box next to menu item(s) of your choice. Use the drop down box to select the number of portions, and then click "Add Items" As you add menu items to your meal, they will appear on the right side of the page under "mymeal." To get the total nutritional content of your selected meal, click "meal Nutrition." For ingredient information, click on any item, and the Nutrition Facts panel and ingredients list will appear on the right side of the page. Allergen Filter You can filter out menu items that contain specific allergens by clicking the box next to the allergen(s) you want to avoid. The menu will show only food items that DO NOT contain the selected allergen(s). Occasionally we will serve a Pop-Up entree or side dish, which is a creative way for our chefs to test recipes. These items will not appear on MyMeal, but instead will have a restaurant-style description on Cafe Bon Appetit. Please note: While the MyMeal tool can help you to manage food allergies in the dining halls, if you are prone to severe allergic reactions, we encourage you to consult the Chef or Dining Manager for specific ingredient questions. For questions about this resource, contact Dining Services (dining_services@brown.edu). Using MyMeal with Cafe Bon Appetit Cafe Bon Appetit is our online menu for all eateries on Brown University’s campus. The descriptions given on Cafe Bon Appetit are restaurant style; they provide a description of the meal but not all details of ingredients. If you need to know all ingredients in a meal, MyMeal is where you will find that information. The nutrition information, ingredients/allergens and attributes displayed as well as any corresponding claims related thereto, including without limitation, claims regarding the major allergen status of recipes or items in MyMeal are provided by product manufacturers and suppliers. Such information may not be complete and/or up to date. You should defer to the product packaging and/or consult with the Brown Dining Services management team. Determination of whether or not a product or item meets the parameters of a specific lifestyle/diet is at your discretion and risk. Brown University and its affiliates do not guarantee the validity, accuracy or completeness of any Product Information & Attributes/Diet Types/Claim and you hereby release Brown University and its affiliates for all claims in any way related to the Product Information & Attributes/Diet Types/Claims. PLEASE SEND ANY QUESTIONS OR CONCERNS TO dining_services@brown.edu Disclaimer My Meal Meal Nutrition Clear My Meal Allergies Contains Alcohol Contains Gluten Eggs Milk Soy Tree Nuts Wheat Clear Filters