Return to Content Example Templates Primary Secondary Tertiary Css Classes 2 Column - Class Notes Template Visual Demo of CSS BP21 (1 Col) - HTML PB20 (1 Col) - Patterns BP21 (1 Col) - Admin II Directories Alumni Directory Tuck Business Directory Update Your Profile Dartmouth Alumni Directory Events Events Calendar 2020 & 2021 Make-Up Reunions Class of 2020 Celebration Global Tuck ’Tails 2022 Reunion 2022 Career Tuck Alumni Career Services Ask Heather: Career Advice Job Postings Career Coaching Sessions Career Resources and Tips Career Virtual Programs Engage with Tuck Alumni Stories Dartmouth Connect Tuck Alumni Chapters Volunteer Opportunities Lifelong Learning New Alumni Resources 50 Years of Women at Tuck Events Communications From Tuck Tuck Association of Diverse Alumni (TADA) Giving Give to TAG Now Donor Recognition TAG Honor Roll Ways to Give Tuck Annual Giving Volunteer Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer for TAG VOLT Log-in Advisory Groups Alumni Advisory Groups Contact Us Login Class Notes Update Your Profile Give to Tuck Search Content: Contact Us Login Class Notes Update Your Profile Give to Tuck Example Templates Primary Secondary Tertiary Css Classes 2 Column - Class Notes Template Visual Demo of CSS BP21 (1 Col) - HTML PB20 (1 Col) - Patterns BP21 (1 Col) - Admin II Directories Alumni Directory Tuck Business Directory Update Your Profile Dartmouth Alumni Directory Events Events Calendar Virtual Programs on Demand 2020 & 2021 Make-Up Reunions Class of 2020 Celebration Global Tuck ’Tails 2022 Reunion 2022 Career Tuck Alumni Career Services Ask Heather: Career Advice Job Postings Career Coaching Sessions Career Resources and Tips Career Virtual Programs Engage with Tuck Alumni Stories Dartmouth Connect Tuck Alumni Chapters Volunteer Opportunities Lifelong Learning New Alumni Resources 50 Years of Women at Tuck Events Communications From Tuck Tuck Association of Diverse Alumni (TADA) Giving Give to TAG Now Donor Recognition TAG Honor Roll Ways to Give Tuck Annual Giving TAG Volunteers Volunteer Volunteer Opportunities Volunteer for TAG VOLT Log-in Advisory Groups Alumni Advisory Groups Menu myTUCK Help Guide New: Self-Service Password Reset for Tuck Alumni Updated: May 1, 2020 Dartmouth's ITC has launched MyAccount, a new service that will enable anyone with a NetID to set or reset their password without having to call the Help Desk. Learn more about Resetting a Forgotten Password and the use of the NetID at Dartmouth and use of the NetID by Alumni. Reset/update your password Find your NetID myTuck Support "How do I login to myTUCK?" "How do I access my NetID and password?" "How do I add a photo to my profile?" "How do I update my alumni information?" Resources for Alumni Find a Classmate Submit Class Notes Request a Transcript Access ProQuest Digital Library Shop the TuckStuff Store Log In to myTUCK This tutorial will guide you through the login process for myTUCK, the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth's online portal for alumni to keep in touch, interact with faculty, sign up for events, and access Tuck intellectual content. 1. From the home page at mytuck.dartmouth.edu, click the LOGIN button on the top green menu bar: 2. You will be automatically directed to the Dartmouth Web Authentication page. Sign in with your Dartmouth NET ID and Password. This is the same information you use to log in to Tuckstreams. NetID and Password Help Not sure what your NetID is or forgot your password? Dartmouth's ITC offers MyAccount, a service that will enable anyone with a NetID to set or reset their password. Learn more about Resetting a Forgotten Password and the use of the NetID at Dartmouth and use of the NetID by Alumni. Reset/update your password Find your NetID Update Alumni Information This tutorial will guide you through the process of setting up your myTUCK data (names, email, addresses, work info, affiliations, and other preferences). 1. Click SETTINGS on the top green menu bar. 2. Click MANAGE MY PROFILE on the next page. 3. This is your Account Data page. Decide how much of your information other alumni can see by editing your profile privacy settings. Click on the EDIT button and toggle the SHOW / HIDE button for each field to control which items should appear on your public profile or stay hidden. 4. Click the Customize You myTUCK Content tab to set your preferences for customized myTUCK content by intellectual area, geographic region, and professor. Add Profile Photo This tutorial will guide you through the process of setting up your myTUCK photo. 1. From the MANAGE MY PROFILE page click the CHANGE or REMOVE buttons underneath the existing image 2. Locate the image file you want to upload on your local hard drive and click CHOOSE Find A Classmate This tutorial will show helpful tips for finding classmates. As a logged in user, you can search the full database of over 9000 Tuck Alumni, from the Class of 1930 to present. 1. Click DIRECTORY on the top menu bar. 2. This is the Simple Search Page. To select a search criterion, make your selection(s) and provide any additional information required by associated fields. When you have made all of your selections, click the Search button to view your results. NOTE: If you select more than one criterion, search results will include only members that meet all criteria requirements. For example, if you want to search for someone who graduated in 1987, you would select "1987" in the Class Year list box. However, if you select a Class Year of "1987" and a Last Name of "Brown", only members with the last name of Brown who graduated in 1987 will be found. 3. Click the Advanced Search button for a larger number of search criteria for you to find fellow Tuck alumni. Just disregard any criteria that are not meaningful to you. The more search criteria you select the more fine tuned your search will be. Submit Class Notes Get in touch with your class secretary to submit photos, anecdotes, baby announcements, wedding bans, obituaries, travel updates, and professional accolades. You can also submit your notes ONLINE! Access Digital Library Use ProQuest Search to access thousands of articles, trade periodicals, papers, recordings, and videos, curated especially for Dartmouth and Tuck alumni. Transcript Request To request transcripts, visit the Avow service. Official print transcripts are available for all classes; official digital transcripts are available for the classes of 1999 to present. Need help logging in to your account? Detailed instructions can be found here. For issues with account holds, please contact the Registrar at tuck.registrar@tuck.dartmouth.edu or 603-646-3938. Contact our Team GIVE to TUCK Event Calendar Search Directory How Do I? Privacy Policy Contact Us Login Class Notes Update Your Profile Give to Tuck Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn