Skip to main content Skip to secondary navigation Stanford University(link is external) Remember... it is okay to not be okay. Mental Health Resources at Stanford Stanford Native American Cultural Center Search this site Submit Search Menu Home About the NACC Professional Staff Student Staff History Timelines Founding of SAIO Stanford Mascot Timeline The Removal of the Indian Mascot of Stanford Stanford Powwow History NACC-AIANNHP Center Timeline Native Theme House History Indigenous Exhibits and Installations ComingVoice Our Community Student Life Staff & Faculty Alumni Alumni Hall of Fame Inductees Family and Friends NACC Programs Native Awareness Indigenous Heritage Series Annual Stanford Lūʻau Annual Stanford Powwow Consciousness Raising Calendar Events Community Gatherings Stanford Native Immersion Program (SNIP) Community Partnerships in University Events Undergraduate New Student Orientation (NSO) Graduate Student Welcome Native Admit Weekend Native Graduation 50th Anniversary Resources Resources for Our Communities Native American Resource Center Library Muwekma-Tah-Ruk, Native Theme House Stanford University Native Student Groups Off-Campus Resources Udall Scholarship Admissions Scholarships & Fellowships Make a Gift Student Affairs News Main content start Ours is a history of working to improve the quality of life for American Indians, Alaska Natives, Native Hawaiians and Indigenous Pacific Islanders. Our community reaches out to new students and their families to help them adjust to life at Stanford—to help them realize goals and prepare for the future. Learn More About the NACC 2022, 2021 and 2020 Native Graduation Dinner & Awards Presentation Date: Saturday, June 11, 2022 Time: 5:00-9:00pm Location: Ricker Dining Center & Courtyard - 238 Santa Teresa Street, Stanford CA Note: This event is invitation only Stanford Searchable Map Dr. Robin Wall Kimmerer presents Braiding Sweetgrass: Indigenous Wisdom, Scientific Knowledge, and the Teachings of Plants Special event: Friday, May 13th, 2022. View the full flyer by tapping the Learn More button below. Learn More Stanford American Indian Organization's 50th Anniversary and the 50th Annual Stanford Powwow SAIO 50 for 50 The SAIO 50 for 50 is a series of alumni spotlights to celebrate the Stanford American Indian Organization and Stanford Powwow’s 50th anniversaries. • Read more about the anniversary here. Learn More Native Student Groups Here, you can find the foundational information for every Native student organization, how to join these groups, when the next event is, and more! Learn More COVID-19 Guidance for Students We want to assure you that we are taking steps to protect everyone’s health and safety. We invite you to join us in minimizing the prevalence and reducing the spread of COVID-19 on our campus. Learn More Stanford University Indigenous Land Acknowledgment Upcoming Events Jun 11 Other Native Graduation Dinner & Awards Presentation 2022, 2021 and 2020 Saturday, June 11, 2022 | 5:00pm - 9:00pm PDT Ricker Dining Center & Courtyard 238 Santa Teresa Street, Stanford CA Stanford, CA 94305 United States Stanford Native American Cultural Center Web Login Address Old Union Clubhouse Ground Floor 524 Lasuen Mall Stanford, CA 94305 United States Visit Campus Map Contact Us Stanford Facebook Stanford Instagram Twitter LinkedIn Youtube Helpful Links Get emergency assistance or find help View the Stanford non-discrimination policy Student Affairs supports accessibility Report a website problem Donate Now Student Affairs The Native American Cultural Center is proud to be part of Student Affairs, which educates students to make meaningful contributions as citizens of a complex world. Stanford University Stanford Home(link is external) Maps & Directions(link is external) Search Stanford(link is external) Emergency Info(link is external) Terms of Use(link is external) Privacy(link is external) Copyright(link is external) Trademarks(link is external) Non-Discrimination(link is external) Accessibility(link is external) © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305. Back to Top