Skip to main content University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences Penn A-Z Penn Calendar Search form SearchSearch Native American & Indigenous Studies at Penn Native American & Indigenous Studies at Penn About News Events Research Faculty Courses Opportunities Students Flags of Native Nations Contemporary flags contributed by Native American nations, at the Mashantucket Pequot Museum, Ledyard, CT. Gladys Tantaquidgeon, Mohegan ethnologist, at Aquinnah Gladys Tantaquidgeon, Mohegan ethnologist and first Native American student in the Penn anthropology department, interviewing Wampanoag elders at Aquinnah, MA. Photographed c. 1928 by Frank Speck. Penn Museum Archives Enika Selby studying photographs of Inuit women in the Penn Museum Archives, for a Museum Anthropology class. 2015 Wampum Conference Kahente Horn-Miller, Kahnawà:ke Mohawk, performs "Skywoman" at the 2015 Wampum Conference at the Penn Museum. Penn Museum Collections Student Engagement Coordinator Stephanie Mach, with Lise Puyo, oversees students in the Penn Museum Collections Study Room. News NAIS Launches Tracking Dispossessions Website May 22, 2022 NAIS has launched a new "Tracking Dispossessions" website to highlight our critical studies of archaeological, museological, artistic, and other collecting processes that have separated Indigenous bodies from their places of interment, and separated Indigenous cultural heritage items from their source communities. Our work includes: composing case studies of dispossessions; mapping the movements of bodies and objects among museums; tracking trends in sales of heritage as “art;” compiling bibliographies; identifying useful resources and initiatives for decolonizing; and drafting guidelines for restorative methodologies to track, investigate, and recover from colonial dispossessions. Stephanie Mach - Curator of North American Ethnography at Harvard May 22, 2022 Stephanie Mach (Diné), a citizen of the Navajo Nation and an anthropologist, joins the Peabody Museum from the Penn Museum, where her work has focused on collections management specializing in access and engagement for university audiences as well as managing the summer internship program. She has served as the co-chair of the Penn Museum Diversity Committee since its founding in 2020. Mach’s dissertation project interrogates museum practices of care, highlighting the responsibilities that result from museum stewardship of Native American cultural items. Her research focuses on processes of decolonizing museum care practices and their broader implications for both Indigenous communities and the transformation of museums. Dispossessions in the Americas - "Just Futures" Mellon Grant April 19, 2021 NAIS at Penn is one of the partners in a 2021-2023 "Just Futures" grant awarded by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation to support "Dispossessions in the Americas: The Extraction of Bodies, Land, and Heritage from La Conquista to the Present," a project directed by Tulia Falleti, Professor of Political Science. More News Past Events Indigenous Knowledge Systems April 17, 2019 In April 2016, LaDonna Brave Bull Allard established the first resistance camp to the Dakota Access Pipeline on her family’s land along the Cannonball River at Standing Rock. The movement known as #NoDAPL became a symbol of indigenous resilience and unity worldwide. Evening talk by Allard, with opening remarks by Curtis Zunigha, Director of Cultural Resources, Delaware Tribe of Indians in Oklahoma, and Co-Founder and Co-Director of the Lenape Center. Penn and Slavery April 4, 2019 to April 5, 2019 Symposium co-hosted by the Penn & Slavery Project and the Program on Race, Science & Society (housed in the Center for Africana Studies) with support from the Office of the Provost, the Kislak Center for Special Collections, Rare Books and Manuscripts, the University of Pennsylvania Libraries, the Penn Medicine Office of Inclusion and Diversity, and the McNeil Center for Early American Studies. Held on the 400th anniversary of the arrival of the first enslaved Africans to British North America, this symposium affirms Penn’s commitment to critically investigating and engaging with the history of slavery. Featured "Native American Voices" - Exhibition at Penn Museum “Native American Voices: The People—Here and Now” is a uniquely interactive exhibit at the Penn Museum. More than 250 objects will rotate through the space over the course of five years from 2014 to 2019. This exhibit aims to transform preconceptions about Native American culture by highlighting distinct stories and identities and artifacts, while focusing on four themes: “Local Nations,” “Sacred Places,” “Continuing Celebrations,” and “New Initiatives.” Visitors can see a diverse selection of objects such as: Lenape materials from the Delaware Valley; war bonnets from the Plains; intricately woven baskets from California; ancient stone tools from Clovis; intricately carved and decorated material from the Northwest Coast; and some inspiring contemporary Native American art. EPIC Gathering at Penn On April 16-17, a group of Native American and First Nations partners in the EPIC (Educational Partnerships with Indigenous Communities) grant were hosted by the Penn Language Center and Native American and Indigenous Studies at Penn. (Left to right): Stephanie Mach, Curtis Zunigha, Brian Carpenter, Betsy Bissell, Vince Shiffert, Tina Pineda, Alan Corbiere (on screen), Pauline Saribas, Taylor Gibson, Tom Belt, Christina Frei, T.J. Holland, LaDonna Brave Bull Allard, Eric Grey Cloud, Lyz Jaakola, Alex Schein. Native American & Indigenous Studies at Penn Penn Museum Room 416 3260 South Street Philadelphia, PA 19104-6398 Phone 215-898-6989 Email mbruchac@sas.upenn.edu Penn WebLogin © 2022 The Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania