Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Native American and Indigenous Studies Department of Native American and Indigenous Studies Contact Us Native.American.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Courses Honors Program Waitlists and Applications NAS 85 Independent Study Rules & Procedures NAS Students Writing Prize Award Recipients Alumni - Tell Us Your Story 2020 2021 Funding for Internships and Independent Research Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Program Research Overview Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Alumni Charles Eastman Fellowship Eastman Fellowship Alumni Tribal Scholar Fellowship Program Tribal Scholar Fellowship Alumni Resources Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Domestic Study Program The Department of Native American and Indigenous Studies offers a domestic study program in Santa Fe, New Mexico and operating from the campus of the Institute of American Indian Arts (IAIA). Please note that the Fall 2022 iteration of the NAIS off-campus program in Santa Fe, New Mexico will be postponed due to changes in faculty staffing and on-going concerns about the pandemic. We hope to offer this program again in Fall term 2023. We apologize for the scheduling changes that this may require for some of you who were hoping to join us in Santa Fe this coming fall term. The Institute of American Indian Arts (IAIA) is the home of the new Native American Studies off-campus program in Santa Fe, New Mexico. Phoebe Suina, a Dartmouth alum, lectures in class. She earned 3 degrees from Dartmouth, her BA '98, BE (Bachelors of Engineering '99) and MEM (Master of Engineering Management '01). Students visit the Canyon de Chelly in Arizona. PreviousNext Location About Santa Fe The program offers proximity to a large and diverse number of distinct Native American tribal communities. As the New Mexico state capital, Santa Fe serves as the focal point for state-tribal political relations in both the historical and contemporary periods. Santa Fe is the recognized hub of Native American art with numerous galleries, museums, studios and major international events dedicated to the exhibition and/or sale of Native art. The landscape itself serves as a living textbook of cross-cultural encounters in times of conflict and cooperation. Our Partner Institute of American Indian Arts (IAIA) The program operates from the campus of the Institute of American Indian Arts (IAIA) located just a few miles south of Santa Fe's downtown. Established in 1962, IAIA is the only four-year degree fine arts institution in the nation dedicated to contemporary Native American and Alaska Native arts. As our institutional partner, IAIA has opened its classrooms, library, residence halls and cafe to Dartmouth students. Students will have meal plans at the IAIA café sufficient to cover lunch and dinner on weekdays. Courses Offered Courses pending Prerequisites The program will be open to all Dartmouth upper-class undergraduate students in good academic standing. As minimum qualifications, applicants must have taken and passed at least two NAS courses prior to the start of the program and meet all college standards for eligibility to participate in off-campus programs. In short, we seek to enroll a group of students who will, individually and collectively, exemplify our commitment to the highest academic standards and the principles of community, inclusion and honor. Application Deadlines Students will apply for admission into the program through the Guarini Institute for International Education's online application process. Please check the Guarini webpage for deadlines and general questions. Students will submit a brief essay explaining their reasons for wanting to participate in the program and describing their preparation for the program (including course work in NAIS and any relevant life experiences living and/or working in Indigenous communities). Students will also participate in personal interviews with the program faculty director. Institute of American Indian Arts NAS Course descriptions in the ORC Share Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Native American and Indigenous Studies Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Courses Honors Program Waitlists and Applications NAS 85 Independent Study Rules & Procedures NAS Students Writing Prize Award Recipients Alumni - Tell Us Your Story 2020 2021 Funding for Internships and Independent Research Off-Campus Program Research Overview Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Alumni Charles Eastman Fellowship Eastman Fellowship Alumni Tribal Scholar Fellowship Program Tribal Scholar Fellowship Alumni Resources News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback