Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Native American and Indigenous Studies Department of Native American and Indigenous Studies Contact Us Native.American.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Courses Honors Program Waitlists and Applications NAS 85 Independent Study Rules & Procedures NAS Students Writing Prize Award Recipients Alumni - Tell Us Your Story 2020 2021 Funding for Internships and Independent Research Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Program Research Overview Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Alumni Charles Eastman Fellowship Eastman Fellowship Alumni Tribal Scholar Fellowship Program Tribal Scholar Fellowship Alumni Resources Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Top Stories Previous Next Two Students Chosen for Native American Internship Program Udall interns gain practical experience with the legislative process in Washington. Powwow and Lūʽau Campus again hosts celebrations of Indigenous cultures. It wouldn't have happened without Samson Occum Professor Colin Calloway discusses a critical figure in Dartmouth history. Dartmouth to Give Occom Papers to the Mohegan Tribe A delegation led by President Hanlon will attend the April 27 repatriation ceremony. An Evening with Nikole Hannah-Jones and the 1619 Project Today Nikole Hannah-Jones is the Pulitzer Prize-winning creator of the 1619 Project and a staff writer at The New York Times Magazine. She has spent her career investigating racial inequality and injustice, and her reporting has earned her numerous awards. Eastman Fellowship Now Open McBride in WSJ Former Eastman Fellow and Dartmouth alum Preston McBride quoted in WSJ about a new federal investigation into Native American children's deaths at U.S.-run schools. Louise Erdrich '76 Wins Pulitzer Prize for Fiction 'The Night Watchman' celebrates her grandfather's fight for tribal sovereignty. Meet our graduates NAS is proud to introduce our majors and minors from the class of 2021. What's in a Name? Dartmouth's Three Newest Departments Native American studies, environmental studies, and linguistics are now departments. Recent Publications view all Religious Gatekeeping in Red-Rock Country High Country News, Vol 54 No. 1 (January 2022). Scientists' Warning to Humanity on Threats to Indigenous and Local Knowledge Systems Nicholas James Reo, et al. Journal of Ethnobiology, 41(2) Little Brother to Dartmouth Thetford Academy, Colonialism, and Dispossession in New England The New England Quarterly, vol. XCV, no. 1 (March 2022). Restorative Cartography of the Theakiki Region: Mapping Potawatomi Presences in Indiana Elan Pochedley Open Rivers: Rethinking Water, Place & Community, no. 18. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Native American and Indigenous Studies Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Courses Honors Program Waitlists and Applications NAS 85 Independent Study Rules & Procedures NAS Students Writing Prize Award Recipients Alumni - Tell Us Your Story 2020 2021 Funding for Internships and Independent Research Off-Campus Program Research Overview Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Alumni Charles Eastman Fellowship Eastman Fellowship Alumni Tribal Scholar Fellowship Program Tribal Scholar Fellowship Alumni Resources News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback