Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Native American and Indigenous Studies Department of Native American and Indigenous Studies Contact Us Native.American.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Courses Honors Program Waitlists and Applications NAS 85 Independent Study Rules & Procedures NAS Students Writing Prize Award Recipients Alumni - Tell Us Your Story 2020 2021 Funding for Internships and Independent Research Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Program Research Overview Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Alumni Charles Eastman Fellowship Eastman Fellowship Alumni Tribal Scholar Fellowship Program Tribal Scholar Fellowship Alumni Resources Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Overview Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Charles Eastman Fellowship Tribal Scholar Fellowship Program Resources Honors Program NAS 85 & 86 Rules Dartmouth College Library Share Research In this section, you can find information on the Native American Studies Program library, some online resources that may be helpful for your research, and a number of fellowship opportunities that help to enhance our course and program offerings. In the Native American Studies Research Library in Sherman House (Photo: Joseph Mehling '69) PreviousNext NAS Research Library This library is maintained by the Native American Studies Program and is not a division of the Dartmouth College Library system. It is open to students, faculty, staff, local teachers, visitors, researchers and alumni. The catalog may be accessed by one of the two computers located in the NAS library or by using the Dartmouth College Information System (DCIS). The collection may be searched by author, title, subject and tribe. The collection has approximately 6,700 books, hundreds of journals, magazines, newspapers, and other materials, covering a diverse subject matter. However, the NAS library is not meant to be a duplication or alternative to the extensive collection on Native Americans held within the Dartmouth College library system. The NAS library is a good place for students to begin their research. Library Material The NAS library is non-circulating; the material contained within its collection is available for use only in the library. Book bags should be left outside the library. When a book is borrowed from a shelf, it should be left on the table or placed on the return book cart so it may be properly re-shelved. Photocopying is allowed at the cost of ten cents per copy. Your library copy card cannot be used in our photocopy machine, so if you plan to make photocopies, please have change available. The library shelves are arranged in subject categories, alphabetically by author (except for the tribe section, which is arranged alphabetically by tribes). The categories are as follows: Language Women's Studies History Law & Policy, Legal Issues Treaties, Documents Reference and Bibliography Exploration, Travel Journals Demography and Geography Atlases Canada, Alaska, Points North Art, Crafts, Photography, Material Culture Religion, Medicine, Ethnobotany, the Natural World Dance, Drama, Song, Music, Sports, Celebration, Pow Wows Anthropology, Archeology, Science Tribes Tribal Regions (i.e. the California Indians) Mythology Contemporary Issues and Philosophy Education and the Education Experience, Missions Literature (creation stories, folklore, poetry, oral tradition, fiction, children's literature) Location and Hours The Native American Studies Research Library is located in The Sherman House at 37 North Main Street, Hanover, New Hampshire. During most academic terms the NAS library will be open from 8:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m. and from 1:30 p.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday. When special functions are being held in the library, it will be unavailable to visitors. During 'crunch' times, we will try to open the library some evenings to accommodate the needs of our students. Please call ahead for information on these extended hours. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Native American and Indigenous Studies Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Courses Honors Program Waitlists and Applications NAS 85 Independent Study Rules & Procedures NAS Students Writing Prize Award Recipients Alumni - Tell Us Your Story 2020 2021 Funding for Internships and Independent Research Off-Campus Program Research Overview Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Alumni Charles Eastman Fellowship Eastman Fellowship Alumni Tribal Scholar Fellowship Program Tribal Scholar Fellowship Alumni Resources News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback