Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Native American and Indigenous Studies Department of Native American and Indigenous Studies Contact Us Native.American.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Courses Honors Program Waitlists and Applications NAS 85 Independent Study Rules & Procedures NAS Students Writing Prize Award Recipients Alumni - Tell Us Your Story 2020 2021 Funding for Internships and Independent Research Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Program Research Overview Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Alumni Charles Eastman Fellowship Eastman Fellowship Alumni Tribal Scholar Fellowship Program Tribal Scholar Fellowship Alumni Resources Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search News & Events Filter by: - Any -Colin CallowayCommunityDartmouth LibraryDartmouth News TodayDawnlandEastman Fellowship AlumniEmmyenvironmenteuronewsfacultyGeorge WashingtonGordon Russell Visiting Professorship AlumniGrantshistoryHood Museum of ArtMaoriMelanie B. TaylorN. Bruce DuthuNative American StudiesNative American Studies ProgramNicholas ReoNick ReoSergei KanTribal Scholar Fellowship AlumniVera PalmerWriting Prize Award Recipient Apply Reset Daniel R. Wildcat (Fall 2013) September 1, 2013 Professor Daniel R. Wildcat is a Yuchi member of the Muscogee Nation of Oklahoma. He is director of the Haskell Environmental Research Studies (HERS) Center and professor of Indigenous and American Indian Studies at Haskell Indian Nations University in Lawrence, Kansas. Dr. Wildcat received B.A. and M.A. degrees in sociology from the University of Kansas and an interdisciplinary Ph.D. from the University of Missouri at Kansas City. He has taught at Haskell for 27 years. Dr. [more] Joyce Szabo (Summer 2013) June 1, 2013 Professor Szabo is the Regents Professor of Art History at the University of New Mexico. She was the William H. Morton Distinguished Fellow at Dartmouth in the fall of 2010 when she took part in the Leslie Humanities Center Institute and symposium "Multiple Narratives in Plains Indian Ledger Art." A specialist in Native American Art and Museum Studies, Professor Szabo has published extensively on late-nineteenth and early twentieth-century Plains drawings. She has also published on other aspects of Native American art, as well as American art in general. [more] Tsianina Lomawaima (Fall 2011) September 1, 2011 Prof. Lomawaima's research on the experiences of American Indian alumni of a federal off-reservation boarding school is rooted in the experiences of her father Curtis Thorpe Carr, who survived, from age 9 to 16, the Chilocco Indian Agricultural School in Oklahoma. Interviews with her father and sixty of his contemporaries, plus information from federal policy and archives, appear in They Called it Prairie Light: The Story of Chilocco Indian School, winner of the 1993 North American Indian Prose Award, and the American Educational Association's 1995 Critics' Choice Award. Dr. [more] Paul Ongtooguk (2008-2009) January 1, 2008 Professor Ongtooguk (Native Alaskan) is a professor at the College of Education, University of Alaska Anchorage. He was an elected member of the Kotzebue IRA Council for three years and a delegate to the Alaska Federation of Natives. He was our Dartmouth students' choice for the GRV for academic year 2008-09. Paul teaches NAS 30: "Issues in Alaska Native Education" Fall Term, 2008 and works with individual students on thesis plans, holding weekly workshops with them. [more] David E. Wilkins (2005-2006) January 1, 2005 Professor Wilkins joined Dartmouth from the University of Minnesota where he took a leave of absence as professor and chair of the American Indian Studies department. He is an expert in comparative politics, American political theory, Federal Indian policy, tribal governance and the history of colonialism and Native peoples. He has published eight books since 1987. While at Dartmouth he taught two courses Fall, 2005: "Native Americans and the Law" and "Native American Treaties." [more] Pages 1 2 3 Next › Last » Events View Past Events More Upcoming Events Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Native American and Indigenous Studies Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Courses Honors Program Waitlists and Applications NAS 85 Independent Study Rules & Procedures NAS Students Writing Prize Award Recipients Alumni - Tell Us Your Story 2020 2021 Funding for Internships and Independent Research Off-Campus Program Research Overview Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Alumni Charles Eastman Fellowship Eastman Fellowship Alumni Tribal Scholar Fellowship Program Tribal Scholar Fellowship Alumni Resources News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback