Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Native American and Indigenous Studies Department of Native American and Indigenous Studies Contact Us Native.American.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Courses Honors Program Waitlists and Applications NAS 85 Independent Study Rules & Procedures NAS Students Writing Prize Award Recipients Alumni - Tell Us Your Story 2020 2021 Funding for Internships and Independent Research Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Program Research Overview Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Alumni Charles Eastman Fellowship Eastman Fellowship Alumni Tribal Scholar Fellowship Program Tribal Scholar Fellowship Alumni Resources Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search This is my grandfather's story, and the prize made my mother happy.Louise Erdrich '76 “ Share Louise Erdrich '76 Wins Pulitzer Prize for Fiction Posted on June 11, 2021 by Charlotte Albright The Night Watchman celebrates her grandfather's fight for tribal sovereignty. Louise Erdrich ’76 sits for a photo at Dartmouth’s Montgomery House, where she served as a fellow in 2011. She also served as a Montgomery Fellow in 1992 and in 2012. (Photo by Joseph Mehling ’69) PreviousNext Louise Erdrich '76 has won the 2021 Pulitzer Prize for fiction for her critically acclaimed novel The Night Watchman (Harper 2020). The awards were announced on June 11. Described on the Pulitzer website as "a majestic, polyphonic novel about a community's efforts to halt the proposed displacement and elimination of several Native American tribes in the 1950s, rendered with dexterity and imagination," the story is based on the life of Erdrich's activist grandfather, a night watchman at a factory near the Turtle Mountain Reservation in rural North Dakota. Erdrich is a member of the Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa and the mother of Aza Erdrich Dorris '11. "This is my grandfather's story, and the prize made my mother happy," Erdrich said upon hearing the news. "Thank you, Richard Corum, A.B. Paulson, Brenda Silver, and the other Dartmouth professors who encouraged my writing." "I hope we never take for granted the gift of storytelling that Louise Erdrich has shared with us for decades," says N. Bruce Duthu, the Samson Occom Professor of Native American Studies. "Perhaps more than any other contemporary writer, Louise has helped to elevate the national IQ on issues of social, historical, and legal significance relating to Native peoples. She is a national treasure." Erdrich was a Montgomery Fellow at Dartmouth in 1992, 2011, and 2012. In 2009, she gave the commencement address on the Green and received an honorary degree. In a 2015 profile in Dartmouth Alumni Magazine, she spoke about the dangers of climate change as well as "the environmental damage being inflicted on the landscape of her childhood, which she sees regularly when visiting friends and family in North Dakota." In 2019, the magazine named her one of Dartmouth's 25 most influential alumni. "Erdrich arrived auspiciously at Dartmouth in red cowboy boots as a member of its first coed class and first modern Indigenous cohort, and she graduated in a pair of refurbished moccasins," the magazine reported. "She worked odd jobs—waiting tables, editing a newspaper, teaching poetry to inmates—while establishing herself as a poet, then as a short story writer, and, finally, in 1984 as a bestselling author with her debut novel, Love Medicine, whose 'beauty … keeps us from being devastated by its power,' raved Toni Morrison." 9780062671196-crop.jpg Interviewed about The Night Watchman on National Public Radio's Fresh Air, Erdrich said it was while reading her grandfather's letters, written in 1954, the year she was born, that she first discovered the pivotal role he had played, with an eighth-grade education, in successfully opposing federal legislation to terminate five tribes. "It astounded me, and I'm grateful to him for what he did. But also, I believe what he did inspired other tribal nations to fight back against termination, and it was a long, brutal fight for survival. Not until the '70s did Richard Nixon end termination and proclaim that the new order of the day would be sovereignty. That started us on an entirely different path," Erdrich said. Erdrich is the author of 16 other novels, volumes of poetry, children's books, and a memoir. Her fiction has won the National Book Award and two National Book Critics Circle Awards. She lives in Minnesota and is the owner of Birchbark Books, a small independent bookstore. Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Native American and Indigenous Studies Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Courses Honors Program Waitlists and Applications NAS 85 Independent Study Rules & Procedures NAS Students Writing Prize Award Recipients Alumni - Tell Us Your Story 2020 2021 Funding for Internships and Independent Research Off-Campus Program Research Overview Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Alumni Charles Eastman Fellowship Eastman Fellowship Alumni Tribal Scholar Fellowship Program Tribal Scholar Fellowship Alumni Resources News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback