Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Native American and Indigenous Studies Department of Native American and Indigenous Studies Contact Us Native.American.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Courses Honors Program Waitlists and Applications NAS 85 Independent Study Rules & Procedures NAS Students Writing Prize Award Recipients Alumni - Tell Us Your Story 2020 2021 Funding for Internships and Independent Research Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Program Research Overview Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Alumni Charles Eastman Fellowship Eastman Fellowship Alumni Tribal Scholar Fellowship Program Tribal Scholar Fellowship Alumni Resources Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search News & Events Filter by: - Any -Colin CallowayCommunityDartmouth LibraryDartmouth News TodayDawnlandEastman Fellowship AlumniEmmyenvironmenteuronewsfacultyGeorge WashingtonGordon Russell Visiting Professorship AlumniGrantshistoryHood Museum of ArtMaoriMelanie B. TaylorN. Bruce DuthuNative American StudiesNative American Studies ProgramNicholas ReoNick ReoSergei KanTribal Scholar Fellowship AlumniVera PalmerWriting Prize Award Recipient Apply Reset Eastman Fellowship Now Open November 9, 2021 [more] 2018-2019 Charles Eastman Fellow: Kaitlin Reed September 22, 2018 The Charles Eastman Pre-Doctoral Fellowship aims to promote student and faculty diversity at Dartmouth and throughout higher ed by supporting completion of the doctorate by selected Native American scholars. [more] 2017-2019 Eastman Fellow: Davina Two Bears September 19, 2017 My name is Davina Two Bears and, I am Diné, Navajo, originally from Birdsprings, Arizona. My maternal clan is Tódích’íi’nii, Bitter Water, born for Táchii’nii, Red Running into the Water Clan; and my maternal grandfather’s clan is Tábąąhí, Edge Water, and my paternal grandfather’s clan is also Tódích’íi’nii. [more] Farina King (2015-2016) August 17, 2015 Bilagáanaa niliigo’ dóó Kinyaa’áaniiyásh’chíín. Bilagáanaa dabicheii dóó Tsinaajinii dabinálí. Ákót’éego diné asdzá̹á̹ nilí̹. Farina King is “Bilagáanaa” (Euro-American), born for “Kinyaa’áanii” (the Towering House Clan) of the Diné (Navajo). Her maternal grandfather was Euro-American, and her paternal grandfather was “Tsinaajinii” (Black-streaked Woods People Clan) of the Diné. She received her U.S. History Ph.D.in 2016 at Arizona State University. She received her M.A. in African History from the University of Wisconsin and a B.A. [more] Simone Whitecloud (2014-2015) September 1, 2014 Simone Whitecloud (2014-2015)-(Lac du Flambeau Band of Lake Superior Chippewa) She received her PH.D in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at Dartmouth College in April 2016. Her ecological research focuses on interactions between different plant species above tree line in the White Mountains of New Hampshire. Plants living in such extreme conditions are likely to facilitate each other rather than compete for resources such as space, water, and nutrients. She is working to determine if plants are indeed experiencing facilitation. [more] Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 Next › Last » Events View Past Events More Upcoming Events Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Native American and Indigenous Studies Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Courses Honors Program Waitlists and Applications NAS 85 Independent Study Rules & Procedures NAS Students Writing Prize Award Recipients Alumni - Tell Us Your Story 2020 2021 Funding for Internships and Independent Research Off-Campus Program Research Overview Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Alumni Charles Eastman Fellowship Eastman Fellowship Alumni Tribal Scholar Fellowship Program Tribal Scholar Fellowship Alumni Resources News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback