Skip to main content Admissions Outcomes The Student Experience Financial Aid Degree Finder Academics Undergraduate Arts & Sciences Departments and Programs Research, Scholarship & Creativity Centers & Institutes Geisel School of Medicine Guarini School of Graduate & Advanced Studies Thayer School of Engineering Tuck School of Business Campus Life Events Diversity & Inclusion Athletics & Recreation Student Groups & Activities Residential Life More About News Giving News Media Search Dartmouth College Explore Dartmouth Native American and Indigenous Studies Department of Native American and Indigenous Studies Contact Us Native.American.Studies@Dartmouth.EDUContact & Department Info Mail Main menu Menu Home Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Courses Honors Program Waitlists and Applications NAS 85 Independent Study Rules & Procedures NAS Students Writing Prize Award Recipients Alumni - Tell Us Your Story 2020 2021 Funding for Internships and Independent Research Back to Top Nav Off-Campus Program Research Overview Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Alumni Charles Eastman Fellowship Eastman Fellowship Alumni Tribal Scholar Fellowship Program Tribal Scholar Fellowship Alumni Resources Back to Top Nav News & Events People Search form Search this site CloseGo Search Share Powwow and Lūʽau Posted on May 10, 2022 News subtitle Campus again hosts celebrations of Indigenous cultures. Powwow returned to the Green on Saturday, May 7, marking its 50th anniversary at Dartmouth. The event sponsored by the Native American Program included a variety of dance categories and a wide range of participants. Then, the following day, Hokupa`a celebrated Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islanders with the Lūʽau on the Tuck Mall. The theme “Mauka to Makai” means “from the uplands to the ocean.” Attendees also could enjoy Polynesian delicacies. Read more from Alumni News: Powwow and Lūʻau Celebrate Indigenous Cultures Photos Image Powwow returned to the Dartmouth Green on Saturday, May 7, with dancers and others in traditional dress. (Photo by Julia Levine ’23) Image What’s known as the “grand entry” took place at the 50th Annual Powwow on the Green Saturday, May 7, 2022. (Photo by Herb Swanson) Image Ken Funmaker Jr., a member of the Ho-Chunk and Meskwaki Nations, leads the grand entry at the 50th Annual Powwow on the Green on Saturday. (Photo by Herb Swanson) Image (Photo by Julia Levine ’23) Image (Photo by Julia Levine ’23) Image (Photo by Julia Levine ’23) Image Ahnili Johnson-Jennings ’23, a member of Choctaw, Quapaw, Sac & Fox, and Miami Nations, dances at the 50th annual Powwow on Saturday, May 7, held on the Dartmouth Green. (Photo by Ryan McCann ’22) Image Iron River Singers and Wicozani take part in the 50th Annual Powwow on the Green on Saturday. (Photo by Herb Swanson) Image Head Woman Kendra Eaglestar, a member of the Jemez Pueblo and Head Man Atsa Zah, a member of the Narragansett Nation, dance at the 50th Annual Powwow on the Green Saturday, May 7, 2022. (Photo by Herb Swanson) Image Participants compete in the Potato Dance at the 50th Annual Powwow on the Green on Saturday. It’s a social dance that requires keeping a potato between partners while dancing at various rhythms, with the difficulty increasing. (Photo by Herb Swanson) Image Dancers perform at the Lūʽau hosted by Hokupa `a on Sunday, May 8, 2022. (Photo by Herb Swanson) Image Dancers perform at the Lūʽau hosted by Hokupa`a on Sunday, May 8, at Dartmouth. (Photo by Herb Swanson) Image (Photo by Ryan McCann ’22) Image Dancers enjoy watching another performance at the Lūʽau hosted by Hokupa`a on Sunday, May 8, at Dartmouth. (Photo by Herb Swanson) Image Dancers perform at the Lūʽau hosted by Hokupa`a on Sunday, May 8, 2022. (Photo by Herb Swanson) Image (Photo by Ryan McCann ’22) Departments African and African American Studies Anthropology Art History Asian Societies, Cultures, and Languages Program Biological Sciences Chemistry Classics Cognitive Science Comparative Literature Computer Science Earth Sciences Economics Education Engineering Sciences English Environmental Studies Film and Media Studies French and Italian Geography German Studies Government History Humanities 1 & 2 Institute for Writing and Rhetoric Jewish Studies Latin American, Latino and Caribbean Studies Linguistics Mathematics Medieval and Renaissance Studies Music Native American Studies Philosophy Physics and Astronomy Psychological and Brain Sciences Religion Russian Sociology Spanish and Portuguese Studio Art Theater Women’s and Gender Studies Inclusivity “Dartmouth’s capacity to advance its dual mission of education and research depends upon the full diversity and inclusivity of this community…Diversity and inclusivity are necessary partners. Without inclusivity, the benefits of diversity— an increase in understanding, improvement in performance, enhanced innovation, and heightened levels of satisfaction—will not be realized. We commit to investments in both, to create a community in which difference is valued, where each individual’s identity and contributions are treated with respect, and where differences lead to a strengthened identity for all." – Dartmouth College Inclusive Excellence Action Plan; see also Arts and Sciences Inclusive Excellence Reports Main menu Dartmouth College Department of Native American and Indigenous Studies Undergraduate Overview Major and Minor Courses Honors Program Waitlists and Applications NAS 85 Independent Study Rules & Procedures NAS Students Writing Prize Award Recipients Alumni - Tell Us Your Story 2020 2021 Funding for Internships and Independent Research Off-Campus Program Research Overview Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Gordon Russell Visiting Professorship Alumni Charles Eastman Fellowship Eastman Fellowship Alumni Tribal Scholar Fellowship Program Tribal Scholar Fellowship Alumni Resources News & Events People My Dartmouth Students Faculty Staff Alumni Families Find it Fast A-Z Index Campus Map Directory Events News Visit Resources Dartmouth at a Glance Accessibility Administrative Offices Emergency Preparedness Careers Sexual Respect & Title IX Connect With Us Facebook Instagram Twitter YouTube Copyright © 2022 Trustees of Dartmouth College • Privacy • Policies • Contact • Site or Accessibility Feedback