e-Learning Center Login Main menu Skip to primary content Skip to secondary content Home About Us Mission Statement DEIA Statement What We Do Faculty & Staff Center Portals Research Policy Practice Media Relations In The News Social Media Children’s Health Fund Employment Contact Us Research Research Portal Research Overview Research Domains Recovery & Resiliency Children & Disasters Vulnerable Populations Crisis Communication & Decision Making Workforce Readiness Preparedness Attitudes & Behaviors Systems Readiness & Response Climate Change Impacts & Adaptation Regional Projects Regional Projects Home Resilient Children/Resilient Communities Initiative Resilient Children, Youth, and Communities Gulf Coast Child & Family Health Study Gulf Coast Population Impact Project The SHOREline Project Sandy Child and Family Health Study Policy Policy Portal Policy Overview Guiding Principles Policy Portfolios Children & Disasters The Welfare of America’s Gulf Coast Resilient Systems Mega-Disasters Practice Practice Portal Practice Overview Training & Education Online & Face-to-Face FEMA Training Grants NCDP Trainings Conferences The Columbia Regional Learning Center Drills & Exercises Consulting Community Engagement Special Projects Utilities and Resilience Thought Leadership Be Prepared for the Unexpected: Public Health Pearls of Wisdom Visualizing Social Media POD Training Library Publications NCDP Perspectives Preparedness Tools The NCDP Model for Disaster Preparedness Preparedness Wizard Asistente de Preparación 5 Action Steps to Preparedness 5 Medidas de Acción para la Preparación Disaster Archive Video/Media Maps/Mapping Projects US Natural Hazards Index Housing Recovery Planning Map The American Hotspots Project Nuclear Power Plants & Earthquake Risk Press Releases Support COVID-19 Search Disaster Training & Education NCDP has been awarded U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) grants. These programs focus on post-disaster economic and housing recovery, mass care community sheltering and relocation assistance and pandemic preparedness and response. The free curricula is available across the U.S. in both instructor-led and web-based modalities. Recovery & Resiliency NCDP’s research seeks to create a knowledge base that will guide government, foundations, and others as they work to build—or rebuild—resilient communities. COVID-19: A Global Pandemic Possibly the greatest threat of our lifetime, COVID-19 is crippling health systems and economies. Follow along as NCDP provides expert commentary and guidance. NCDP Perspectives Read NCDP’s on-going expert commentary to address the research, practice, and policy implications of large-scale disasters, both domestically and globally. Research, policy and practice to enhance system readiness for mega-disasters; foster community preparedness and engagement; understand population vulnerability; explore strategies to improve disaster recovery Featured Work COVID-19 Global Pandemic The global crisis caused by COVID-19 continues to wreak havoc on a global scale. In response to the need for relevant resources and commentary, NCDP has launched a new COVID-19 resource microsite. During this time of uncertainty, we here at the National Center for Disaster Preparedness (NCDP), are focused on ensuring a rapid, evidence-based response to the COVID-19 outbreak, while also working to protect the physical and mental well-being of those that are most vulnerable. The site will be updated on a regular basis with expert commentary, tools and resources, and virtual events. Utilities and Resilience Thought Leadership To increase resilience of power distribution systems in electrical utilities, Commonwealth Edison and the National Center for Disaster Preparedness, Columbia Climate School, at Columbia University have created a partnership that incorporates insights in social vulnerability with advances in electrical grid design and implementation. This reservoir of thought leadership will help inform further improvements in community and electrical grid resilience through socially informed technology deployment strategies. The goal of this innovative thought leadership is to help maintain and increase access to reliable electricity, which underpins all of society’s most essential daily operations. Understanding Resilience in the Wake of the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill To continue assessing the impact of the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill on families and their children, the “Understanding Resilience Attributes for Children, Youth, and Communities in the Wake of the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill” (RCYC) study was launched by NCDP and Louisiana State University, funded by the Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative (GoMRI). The study findings will help to see if there is evidence that health impacts on children and their families are getting better, worse, or staying the same as years go by. Our field team is currently interviewing in five communities in Louisiana. For more information on the RCYC study, click here. Click here for a FAQ Q&A video series posted as a Twitter moment, featuring LSU’s RCYC Study Coordinator Kathryn Sweet Keating. FEMA Training Grants NCDP has been awarded several FEMA training grants to develop and deliver instructor-led and web-based courses on a variety of topics focused around economic and housing recovery, mass care community sheltering and relocation assistance and pandemic preparedness and response. Learn more about the curricula by clicking the image above or visit our learning management system for course registration. Register here for the web-based courses or the instructor-led course. Resilient Children / Resilient Communities Initiative Child serving institutions are central to a community’s preparedness, and to ensure the well-being of children before, during and after disasters. Despite this, these institutions are left out of the preparedness and planning equation, sometimes without resources or the capacity to provide needed tools to quickly recover. Under a grant from GSK, NCDP is working to change this. To learn more about the RCRC Initiative, visit the RCRC Homepage. In partnership with community leaders, the Resilient Children/Resilient Communities (RCRC) Initiative analyzed, recommended, and implemented procedures, training, and guidance to help build child-focused community resilience to disasters. As a result of the RCRC Initiative efforts, RCRC Toolbox has been created. The RCRC Toolbox is a dynamic collection of resources developed and curated throughout this initiative for the benefit of those working to make our communities and our children more resilient to disasters. This collection of tools and resources can be shared widely with communities nationwide. COVID-19 Global Pandemic Utilities and Resilience Thought Leadership Understanding Resilience in the Wake of the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill FEMA Training Grants Resilient Children / Resilient Communities Initiative In Focus UN Disaster Risk Reduction Conference Watch a special broadcast on 5/27/22 at 8 AM ET discussing “When avoiding disaster is the story”. The Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Parental education and child physical health study published following the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill. Rethinking Readiness A talk with NCDP’s Jeff Schlegelmilch. Watch now. View All Updates ONLINE CERTIFICATE COURSES Distance Learning The NCDP PERSPECTIVES Read more Using Budget Principles to Prepare for Future Pandemics and Other... Testimony to the House of Representatives Committee on Rules’ Subcommittee… Follow us on: Home About Us Research Policy Practice Library Sitemap 475 Riverside Drive, Suite 401 New York, NY 10115-0095 p 212.853.NCDP (6237) ncdp@columbia.edu © 2022 Columbia University