National Center for Forensic Science About HistoryContact UsFrequently Asked Questions Databases Sexual Lubricant DatabaseIgnitable Liquids Reference Collection (ILRC Database)International Database of Ignitable LiquidsSubstrate DatabaseYHRD databaseSmokeless Powders DatabaseThermal Properties DatabaseFire Debris Database Research OverviewNCFS PartnershipsChemical EvidenceBiological EvidenceStatistical Evidence Education and Training OverviewDegree ProgramsNCFS Training People National Center for Forensic Science Jump to page content The NCFS Mission is to “Provide relevant and responsive forensic science research and operational support to the Criminal Justice Community.” We are dedicated to pushing back the frontiers of forensic science by integrating high level research and technology to provide innovative and transformational solutions to real problems. We keep our research relevant by reaching out and forming partnerships with stakeholders in the forensic science community throughout the world and by participating in Technical and Scientific Working Groups. News NCFS Faculty Receive New Research Awards Congratulations to Dr. Baudelet, Dr. Ballantyne, and Dr. Hanson on their new research awards from the National Institute of Justice! Matthieu Baudelet, PhD: “Pre-grouping of commingled human skeletal remains by elemental analysis” Jack Ballantyne, PhD and Erin Hanson, PhD: “Transfer, Persistence and DNA Source Attribution of Trace Biological Material in Digital Penetration Assault Cases” Dr. Sigman in the lab UCF Chemistry Professor Leads Discussion at Chemical Weapon Forensics Symposium in Helsinki, Finland The National Center for Forensic Science at UCF is the only university laboratory participating in a global study. Read the Article Dr. Baudelet and John Lucchi in the lab UCF Forensic Scientists Unlocking Unique Chemical Signatures In Tires Chemistry Associate Professor Matthieu Baudelet’s approach could provide law enforcement new tools to track down those who flee a crime scene. Read the Article Watch the Interview Image: Applied Spectroscopy Journal Tire Classification by Elemental Signatures Using Laser-Induced Breakdown Spectroscopy John Lucchi, Dan Gluck, Sidney Rials, Larry Tang, Matthieu Baudelet Dr. Baudelet, Dr. Tang, and their students collaborated with the FDLE in the research of novel method for tire evidence analysis. Read the Article Data-Driven Forensic Science: Research and Operational Support Databases Much of the research at the National Center for Forensic Science is focused on building structured collections of information, known as databases, to assist in forensic casework today and transform current practices into the data-driven forensics of the future. This brochure highlights some of the databases developed at NCFS. Download Brochure National Center for Forensic Science National Center for Forensic Science 12354 Research Parkway Suite 225 Orlando, Florida 32826 Phone: (407) 823-6469 Email: natlctr@ucf.edu Like us on Facebook View our LinkedIn page Follow us on YouTube Give to NCFS Gifts to the NCFS through the UCF Foundation provide critical support for students, faculty, programs and facilities. Give! Resource Links Faculty and Staff Resources Equipment Scheduling Frequently Asked Questions COLLEGE OF SCIENCES, UCF © University of Central Florida