Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics University of Notre Dame Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit About Visit Give Alumni Athletics Home Contact Search Menu Commencement Celebrating the Class of 2020 After hiatus, graduates return to mark their accomplishments Commencement 2020 University News Heather Christophersen, Anne Griffith appointed to VP positions University News Berthiaume family’s $20 million gift endows Institute for Precision Health University News Statement on the Uvalde, Texas, shootings Research The Opportunity of Inquiry For scholars who share a common passion for inquiry because of what it can reveal about our world and ourselves, there is opportunity here. Research at ND Faith & Service The Demands of Justice Notre Dame is animated by a faith that inspires us to seek knowledge because of the powerful tool it can be to improve humankind. Faith & Service at ND Global The Connected World Notre Dame seeks to be in the world, and to bring the world to Notre Dame, because inquiry and scholarly exchange are enriched by the pursuit of cultural fluency. Global Scholarship at ND University News Notre Dame At Work View all news Research Multi-decade research links fathers’ testosterone production to their adolescent experiences with their own fathers University of Notre Dame Associate Professor of Anthropology Lee Gettler and his collaborators have drawn on data collected over more than 30 years from almost 1,000 men in the Philippines to help shed light on the importance of adolescence and father-son experiences to sons’ adult testosterone patterns. Read Article Latest News Abigail Abikoye receives Wood Award from Community-Engaged Alliance Abigail Abikoye, a senior biological sciences major with a minor in poverty studies, has been named the recipient of the Richard J. Wood Student Community Commitment Award from Community-Engaged Alliance. She is Notre Dame’s 13th Wood Award recipient. Read Article Latest News Robert J. Bernhard, vice president for research, to keynote 2020 Graduate School Commencement Ceremony Robert J. Bernhard, vice president for research and professor of aerospace and mechanical engineering at the University of Notre Dame, will deliver the commencement address during the Graduate School’s Class of 2020 Commencement Ceremony at 10 a.m. Saturday (May 28) at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Read Article Centers and Institutes Paolo Carozza named to Meta Oversight Board Paolo G. Carozza, professor of law and concurrent professor of political science at the University of Notre Dame, has been added as a member of the Oversight Board for Meta, the parent company of Facebook, among the most valuable firms in the world with the social media and messaging apps Instagram and WhatsApp among its properties. Read Article University Stories Notre Dame In Focus View all stories Research Women Lead Meet seven Notre Dame women who are caring for our common home through research, scholarship, and creative endeavors Research Pathogen Trackers REDI-NET program aims to support disease surveillance for early detection of next pandemic Podcast Notre Dame Stories: A Conversation with Commencement Speaker Archbishop Borys Gudziak “The world needs a university that graduates men and women who are not only capable and knowledgeable, but who accept their responsibility to serve others – especially those in greatest need.” — Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C. University Events Notre Dame In Motion View all events Jun 1 Reunion 2022: Golden is Thy Fame Celebration Wed, Jun 1 Jun 3 [Title Change] Conversation — "ND Explores STEM: Healthcare" Fri, Jun 3 at 2:00 pm Jun 4 Forum on Systemic Inclusion Sat, Jun 4 at 10:00 am Jun 4 Southold Dance Theatre presents “Cinderella” Sat, Jun 4 at 2:00 pm Quick Links Bookstore Employment Tour InsideND Academic Calendar University of Notre Dame Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn © 2022 University of Notre Dame Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA 41.703234 -86.238985 Phone: (574) 631-5000 Contact Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Emergency Closed Captioning Notice of Non-Discrimination Home Academics Admissions Research Global Faith & Service Campus Life About Visit