Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Office of Public Affairs and Communications NDWorks Campus news for faculty and staff Menu Search Search Home Latest Contact Home › Latest › Main entrance and bookstore parking lot construction Main entrance and bookstore parking lot construction by NDWorks May 31, 2022 The main entrance to campus, at Holy Cross Drive and Notre Dame Avenue, will be closed beginning Monday, June 6, so a new campus entrance can be constructed over the summer. A temporary gate will be set up just south of the Eck Visitors Center (also known as the alumni center) with access from Notre Dame Avenue. The temporary gate will be staffed from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. every day. After hours, faculty and staff can use a proximity card or clicker to gain entry; all guests should enter campus through the east gate on Holy Cross Drive near Grace Hall, which will be open 24 hours, seven days a week. The new entrance to campus, when constructed, will include a lane for visitors and one for faculty and staff. There will also be a turnaround lane for those redirected. The improvement will relieve traffic congestion. (Preview: Late this summer, faculty and staff members will receive digitally enhanced hang tags for their vehicles. The new hang tags will open the campus gates and designated parking lot gates.) The bookstore parking lot will also be improved this summer, and the current basketball courts west of the bookstore will become a parking lot for faculty and staff. New basketball courts, which will include pickleball lines, will be constructed west of the current site. Home Latest NDWorks Weekly Feature Stories TheWeek@ND New Employees Anniversaries In Memory Accolades Contact Latest Issue PDF Archive External link NDWorks Weekly Feature Stories TheWeek@ND New Employees Anniversaries In Memory Accolades Twitter YouTube Pinterest Instagram Facebook Copyright © 2022 University of Notre Dame NDWorks Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Accessibility Information