Skip to main content OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Open search box College of Engineering » Nuclear Science and Engineering Toggle menu Go to search page Search Field Exit Search About Welcome History Advisory Board Accreditation Nuclear Engineering Radiation Health Physics Academics Undergraduate Programs Nuclear Engineering Undergraduate Program Radiation Health Physics Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Nuclear Engineering Graduate Program Radiation Health Physics Graduate Program Interdisciplinary Programs Research and Innovation Facilities Research Facilities Advanced Nuclear Systems Engineering Laboratory (ANSEL) Advanced Thermal Hydraulic Research Laboratory (ATHRL) High Temperature Test Facility (HTTF) Hydro-Mechanical Fuel Test Facility (HMFTF) Laser Imaging of Fluids and Thermal (LIFT) Multi-Application Light Water Reactor (MASLWR) Laboratories Advanced Nuclear Instrumentation Development Laboratory (ANIDL) Gamma Spectroscopy Facilities High Performance Computing Cluster (HPCC) Laboratory of Transuranic Elements (TRUELAB) Radioecology Research Laboratory (RERL) TRIGA Research Reactor My NSE Jobs and Internships Scholarships & Fellowships Pre-Award Grant Support Calendar Library Maps Online Services Make a Gift About Welcome History Advisory Board Accreditation Nuclear Engineering Radiation Health Physics Academics Undergraduate Programs Nuclear Engineering Undergraduate Program Radiation Health Physics Undergraduate Program Graduate Programs Nuclear Engineering Graduate Program Radiation Health Physics Graduate Program Interdisciplinary Programs Research and Innovation Facilities Research Facilities Advanced Nuclear Systems Engineering Laboratory (ANSEL) Advanced Thermal Hydraulic Research Laboratory (ATHRL) High Temperature Test Facility (HTTF) Hydro-Mechanical Fuel Test Facility (HMFTF) Laser Imaging of Fluids and Thermal (LIFT) Multi-Application Light Water Reactor (MASLWR) Laboratories Advanced Nuclear Instrumentation Development Laboratory (ANIDL) Gamma Spectroscopy Facilities High Performance Computing Cluster (HPCC) Laboratory of Transuranic Elements (TRUELAB) Radioecology Research Laboratory (RERL) TRIGA Research Reactor My NSE Jobs and Internships Scholarships & Fellowships Pre-Award Grant Support You are here Home » Academics » Undergraduate Programs Radiation Health Physics Undergraduate Program Radiation Health Physics Apply Now Degree Requirements College Tours Contact Us About the Undergraduate Program Radiation health physicists ensure beneficial uses of radiation, protecting workers and the public from potential hazards associated with exposure. Within the School of Nuclear Science and Engineering there are numerous opportunities for students to gain practical knowledge and experience in many areas of the field. Research, development and testing are school hallmarks, and undergraduate students have numerous opportunities to participate in the research activities conducted by our faculty and graduate students. Oregon State's radiation health physics program traces its roots back to the 1960s and today produces the most graduates of any program in the nation. No. 1 Most radiation health physics graduates in the United States. $8M NSE Research expenditures in 2018-19. 1 of 24 University research and test reactors in the United States. Comparing computer code for radiation worker safety Undergrad Logan Anspach's research is informing the highest levels of regulating agencies in the nuclear and health physics fields. Bringing Medical Isotope Production Closer to Home Every day, approximately 40,000 people in the United States receive a nuclear medicine imaging procedure using the radioisotope technetium-99m. NSE’s newest faculty member is a familiar face Steven R. Reese was promoted to the rank of associate professor with tenure. But he has worked at Oregon State in association with the college since 1997, serving as director of the Radiation Center since 2005. Academics and Admission The Bachelor of Science and Honors Bachelor of Science degree programs in Radiation Health Physics are accredited by the Applied and Natural Science Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org (view our accreditation information). For any questions about the program, please contact Joan Stueve, head undergraduate advisor. Transfer Students Transfer student information is available at the Office of Admissions. Navy Students Education through the Seaman-to-Admiral (STA-21) program provides you with the tools to succeed as a commissioned officer, and to later have a promising career as a civilian nuclear engineer or radiation health physicist. After completion of the Naval Nuclear Power School you can enroll in the STA-21 program to complete a three-year bachelor's of science degree at NSE. Engineering is an academically challenging field, and as a Navy student at Oregon State you’ll be held to a higher standard than traditional students. We want to see you make the grade: our world-class faculty, tutoring services and library are available to you. Because you have 36 months to complete your degree, it’s important to understand how your transcripts will transfer to Oregon State. Please review the Radiation Health Physics STA-21 Three-Year Example Plan below. You also need to be conscious of acceptance deadlines for the STA-21 program. Once your Oregon State application is completed, admissions decisions can be made in 2-4 weeks and sometimes in as little as one week. So please plan accordingly. For more specific information on the STA-21 program please visit the Oregon State Department of Naval Science. Degree Requirements Radiation Health Physics Undergraduate Major Pre-med option Radiation Health Physics Minor Request General Info Future Students Current Students Alumni and Friends Industry and Partners Faculty and Staff Master of Health Physics Online Subscribe to our newsletter * indicates required Email Address * First Name * Last Name * Our YouTube playlist Contact Info School of Nuclear Science and Engineering 151 Batcheller Hall 1791 SW Campus Way Corvallis, OR 97331 Phone: (541) 737-2343 Fax: (541) 737-0480 ne.publicinfo@ne.oregonstate.edu Land Acknowledgement Copyright ©2022 Oregon State University Disclaimer Links Contact TEACH Login