/ Jump to main navigation Jump to section navigation Jump to main content Cornell University Department Homepage Academics Undergraduate Graduate Current Graduate Students Language Study Courses Faculty Research Faculty Books About Us Contacts Kroll Travel Awards The College of Arts & Sciences Open search Open nav Search for: Near East, Middle East, Southwest Asia & North Africa Near Eastern Studies We offer undergraduate and graduate students the opportunity to study the languages, literatures, cultures, religions and history of regions from ancient Sumer to the modern Middle East. We also help to educate students and the wider academic community about cross-cultural, trans-historical and inter-religious issues related to the region. Popular Destinations Faculty Courses Graduate Study Undergraduate Major Languages Current Graduate Students Alumni spotlight News Grateful to be together: Meet the extraordinary class of 2022 Hear about the Cornell experiences of some of the amazing students in our graduating class. Read More Photo by Julia Kohn Shanzai Ikhlas, Siobhan Downey, Ainav Rabinowitz, and Presley Church, the leadership team of Women of MENA Women of MENA On Wednesday, April 20, a new campus student publication group titled Women of MENA celebrated its launch at the Johnson Museum of Art. The event took place in the Taking Shape: Abstraction in the Arab World exhibit. Read More 'I wanted to experience Arabic language differently' Dana Slayton is a Near Eastern studies major, Read More Call for papers for December 2022 Workshop on Judeo-Persian Literature Cornell University is pleased to announce a call for papers for an online workshop on “Judeo-Persian Literature at the Intersection of Jewish Studies and Iranian Studies,” held entirely on Zoom on December 6 and 7, 2022. The deadline to submit a proposal is June 10. Read More Alumni Spotlight: Ruth Margolies Beitler '88 Cornell and Morgolies Beitler's professors nurtured her passion and love of Middle East politics, particularly a deep exploration of the Israeli-Palestinian issue, along with women's roles in the MENA. Read More First cohort of A&S Nexus Scholars chosen for summer research positions Fifty undergrads in the College of Arts & Sciences will take part in paid research projects in Ithaca this summer with faculty from throughout the College. Read More Fall 2022 NES Courses of Interest Pre-enrollment for Fall 2022 courses begins later this month. See a selection of the courses we are offering! Read More Graduate Alumni Spotlight: Yiyi Chen Ph.D. 2000 Previously, Dr. Yiyi Chen Ph.D. '00 served as Director of the Institute for Hebrew and Jewish Studies at Peking University. Chen was one of the leading Biblical scholars in China and a pioneer in the field of Middle Eastern Peace Studies at Shanghai Jiaotong University. Chen was also the Editor-in-C... Read More More News Events Jun 10 Medicine in the Talmud Goldwin Smith Hall See all events Major in Near Eastern studies Interested in exploring the languages, literatures, cultures, religions, and history of the Middle East from antiquity to the modern day? Consider pursuing a major in Near Eastern studies. We also offer undergraduate minors in Arabic and Near Eastern studies. Take a class Explore the diversity of the Middle East in a class like "Wondrous Literatures of the Near East" (NES 2754) or "Islam and Gender" (NES 2270). We offer classes on a wide range of topics, regions, and time periods of the Middle East. Study a Near Eastern language Take Arabic, Hebrew, Turkish, or Persian to fulfill the College of Arts & Sciences language requirement! We also offer instruction in some of the ancient Middle Eastern languages like Akkadian and Biblical Hebrew. See all of the Middle Eastern languages taught in the department. Get department updates We send out e-newsletters regularly during the academic school year. Join our email list Support Near Eastern studies at Cornell Your support enables the department to enhance the experience for undergraduate and graduate students and contribute to faculty excellence. Gifts can help fund lectures and conferences, faculty and student research, distinguished speakers, and other department priorities. We will greatly appreciate and immediately put into use any gift, no matter the amount. Please consider a donation to the department endowment gifts fund. We place gifts made to this fund into an endowment account where they are invested in perpetuity. Income from the endowment is provided each year to the department for priorities. More information on ways to give. 409 White Hall Ithaca, NY 14853 United States Email Department of Near Eastern Studies 607-255-6275 Twitter Facebook Cornell University The College of Arts & Sciences Website Accessibility Privacy Policy Equal Education & Employment Emergency Information Land Acknowledgment © 2022 College of Arts & Sciences Top