Skip to main content COVID-19 UPDATE: NU is open. Faculty/staff are working in-person and campuses are open for in-person learning this spring. MORE INFO ×Close Menu University of Nebraska Five-Year Strategy Get to Know Nebraska Doing Leading Research Meet Our People Making an Impact Support By Giving Directory Regents President Transparency COVID-19 News & Events Offices & Policies For Faculty & Staff COVID-19 UPDATE: NU is open. Faculty/staff are working in-person and campuses are open for in-person learning this spring. MORE INFO Directory Regents President Transparency covid-19 News & Events Offices & Policies For Faculty & Staff Close Five-Year Strategy Get to Know Nebraska Doing Leading Research Meet Our People Making an Impact Support By Giving Toggle search Previous Slide Next Slide The NU System: Driving Nebraska's Economy Read Our Economic Impact Report Making a Difference in Nebraska, Every Day Read the "NU for NE" Stories Transparency at the University of Nebraska Demonstrating Our Accountability Visit Site Attend the University of Nebraska, Tuition Free with the nebraska promise Learn More COVID-19: How We're Helping READ OUR IMPACT STORIES Join the University of Nebraska Advocates Learn More Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 Slide 5 Slide 6 One University. Four Campuses. One Nebraska. A land-grant flagship campus. An academic medical center. A metropolitan campus serving our urban citizens. And a campus focused on undergraduates. Collectively, these four unique institutions are known as the University of Nebraska. Each institution has distinct strengths, giving the University of Nebraska a scope of expertise that is hard to equal. UNK focuses on undergraduate education— offering a hands-on, private-school feel on a major state university campus. University of Nebraska at Kearney University of Nebraska at Kearney UNK focuses on undergraduate education— offering a hands-on, private-school feel on a major state university campus. UNL is the system’s flagship—a land-grant research institution and Big Ten member that has led and innovated for over 150 years. University of Nebraska - Lincoln University of Nebraska - Lincoln UNL is the system’s flagship—a land-grant research institution and Big Ten member that has led and innovated for over 150 years. UNMC is Nebraska’s only public academic health science center—creating a healthier future through education, groundbreaking research and exceptional patient care. University of Nebraska Medical Center University of Nebraska Medical Center UNMC is Nebraska’s only public academic health science center—creating a healthier future through education, groundbreaking research and exceptional patient care. UNO is a metropolitan institution, with students, alumni, and faculty who propel the economy of the largest city in Nebraska. University of Nebraska at Omaha University of Nebraska at Omaha UNO is a metropolitan institution, with students, alumni, and faculty who propel the economy of the largest city in Nebraska. An Overview of Our Campuses Meet President Carter Visit the Presidential Site Three Institutes, Immeasurable Impact. The University of Nebraska has invested in three interdisciplinary, University-wide institutes. Through these institutes, talented experts from our four campuses come together, finding innovative solutions to challenges that face our state, our nation, and our world. The Daugherty Water for Food Global Institute is impacting lives everywhere by helping to grow more food with less water. Daugherty Water for Food Institute Daugherty Water for Food Institute The Daugherty Water for Food Global Institute is impacting lives everywhere by helping to grow more food with less water. The Buffett Early Childhood Institute is a catalyst for helping Nebraska’s youngest citizens to thrive and succeed in life. Buffett Early Childhood Institute Buffett Early Childhood Institute The Buffett Early Childhood Institute is a catalyst for helping Nebraska’s youngest citizens to thrive and succeed in life. One of only 14 university research centers affiliated with the Department of Defense, the NSRI provides solutions that improve national security. National Strategic Research Institute National Strategic Research Institute One of only 14 university research centers affiliated with the Department of Defense, the NSRI provides solutions that improve national security. Learn More About Our Institutes Earn a University of Nebraska Degree Online Choose from more than 150 programs offered online. Flexible courses taught by expert faculty give Nebraskans—and others—access to a high-quality education, no matter where they are. Nebraska College of Technical Agriculture Located in Curtis, Nebraska, we prepare students for careers in agriculture, veterinary technology, food and other influential industries. LEARN MORE News & Events May 12, 2022 UNL Racial Literacy Roundtables earn system-wide inclusive excellence award Apr 27, 2022 New “Leading Nebraska” podcast highlights UNK efforts on student internships, workforce development Apr 26, 2022 President’s Op-Ed: New actions making a University of Nebraska education even more accessible Jun 23 2022 Board of Regents Meeting TBA Varner Hall, Board Room Aug 11 2022 Board of Regents Meeting TBA Varner Hall, Board Room Sep 30 2022 Board of Regents Meeting 9:00 AM UNK - Exact Location TBD All NU Administration News & Events Campus News: Kearney Lincoln Medical Center Omaha 50,677 Students enrolled in the Fall 2021 semester 11,681 Number of degrees awarded in 2020-2021 152 Years since the first NU campus was founded COOKIE USAGE: The University of Nebraska System uses cookies to give you the best online experience. By clicking "I Agree" and/or continuing to use this website without adjusting your browser settings, you accept the use of cookies. PRIVACY SETTINGS I Accept × Footer Quick Links HOME Careers Contact Us News & Events Campuses University of Nebraska at Kearney University of Nebraska–Lincoln Nebraska College of Technical Agriculture University of Nebraska Medical Center University of Nebraska at Omaha Giving matters and it's easy. Make a gift through the University of Nebraska Foundation © 2022 University of Nebraska Board of Regents Accessibility Statement Notice of Nondiscrimination Online Privacy Statement