Home Browse Journals Publish With Us Customer Service Advertising Permissions Societies Resources Publishing Ethics Calls for Papers Home Browse Journals Publish With Us Customer Service Advertising Permissions Societies Resources Publishing Ethics Calls for Papers Nineteenth-Century French Studies 49:3-4 Journal Edited by Seth Whidden Special Issue: “La Commune n’est pas morte . . .” Issue Editors Robert St.Clair and Seth Whidden Purchasing options individual Choose Product Single Issue (Individuals) Browse Single Issue institution Choose Product Single Issue (Institutions) Browse Single Issue Table Of Contents This issue is printed on demand. Expect shipping delays. Volume 49, No. 3&4 (2021) Special Issue: “La Commune n’est pas morte . . .” Edited by Robert St.Clair and Seth Whidden Contents Introduction Robert St.Clair and Seth Whidden The Commune, “Today” Robert St.Clair Forme(s) Enfin Trouvée(s) Départs : entretien avec Jacques Rancière Robert St.Clair et Seth Whidden « Une barricade, non un gouvernement » : Contrasting Views of Association in the Paris Commune Appendix: Prosper-Olivier Lissagaray, “Le programme de la Commune” (L’Action, 9 avril 1871) William Clare Roberts La Commune de Paris, ou la naissance de la laïcité d’émancipation ? Christophe Miqueu How to Organize Emancipation: The Paris Commune Frank Ruda Polar Chaos Kristin Ross Ways of Seeing Entretien avec Jacques Tardi Seth Whidden Between Memory and Mobilization: The Graffiti and Street Art of the Paris Commune Macs Smith Vallotton, Fénéon, and the Legacy of the Commune in Fin-de-siècle France Bridget Alsdorf The Lion of Belfort, Max Ernst’s Une semaine de bonté, and the Uses of the Past Katie Hornstein On Seeing and Believing: The Ruins of Paris, National Identity and Experiential Photography Raisa Rexer Memories—Actualities Collective Forgetting: Textbooks and the Paris Commune in the Early Third Republic David A. Shafer The Commune, 1871: Present, Past, and Back Again Quentin Deluermoz L’amnistie des communards. Autour du discours de Léon Gambetta, 21 juin 1880 Appendix: Discours de Léon Gambetta à la Chambre des députés, 21 juin 1880 Laure Godineau 1871 raisons d’y croire: logiques et imaginaire des Gilets jaunes Denis Saint-Amand Résonances des temps. La Commune comme « hantologie » de 1968 à aujourd’hui Ludivine Bantigny Œuvres Partage de l’insolence (usage de Vallès par les temps qui courent) Nathalie Quintane The Performance of Politics during the Siege of Paris Colin Foss Une révolution vue d’en bas: l’épopée ordinaire du Tableau de Paris (1871) Arnaud Bernadet Back to Her Sheep: The Commune and Peasant Politics in George Sand’s Nanon Claire White Zola’s “champ limité de la réalisation”: La Débâcle and the Commune Nicholas White Communal Lives Les Marmites de la Commune: Qu’on vive à table comme sur la barricade! Philippe C. Dubois Cyclisme Communard Corry Cropper and Daryl Lee L’œuvre scolaire de la Commune de Paris Jean-François Dupeyron When Fashion Stood Still: from la mode assiégée to la mode durable Susan Hiner “Couragé et Libe®té”: The Commune de Paris 1871 Menswear Brand in the Age of the Gilets jaunes Heidi Brevik-Zender Internationalisms Decolonizing the “Universal Republic”: The Paris Commune and French Empire Niklas Plaetzer “She Smelled of Petroleum”: The Paris Commune in a German Family Magazine Maureen DeNino Reliving the Commune: American Women Radicals and the Figure of Revolution J. Michelle Coghlan From “female bodhisattva with a she-devil face” to “female general of the anarchist party”: Biographies of Louise Michel in Early 20th-Century China Cecilia Feilla The Tragic Festival Alberto Toscano Index Column 1 About Us Contact Us Ordering Instructions Customer Service UNP Books Our Mission Column 2 Support UNP Privacy Policy Career Opportunities UNP Newsletters Land Acknowledgment Journal Archives Historical Geography Archive Journal of Magazine Media Archive Shopping Cart © 2022 University of Nebraska Press | 1225 L St., Ste. 200 | PO Box 880630 | Lincoln, NE 68588-0630 Created by Supadü