Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home News Fund Named for Norma Merrick Sklarek to Break Barriers to Graduate Study Education Fund Named for Norma Merrick Sklarek to Break Barriers to Graduate Study Editor's note: A version of this article originally appeared on Columbia GSAPP. October 29, 2020 In October 2020, Dean Amale Andraos announced that GSAPP will commit $1 million to establish the Norma Merrick Sklarek '50 B.Arch Scholars Fund, intended to promote diversity, inclusion, and equity by breaking down barriers to access for graduate study. Columbia alumna Norma Merrick Sklarek, born on April 15, 1928, in Harlem, New York, was a trailblazer. When she passed the New York state exam in 1954, she was among the first Black women to become a registered architect in the state. Author Anna M. Lewis calls Sklarek the ‘Rosa Parks of Architecture' in her book Women of Steel and Stone. Following graduation from the Columbia University School of Architecture, Sklarek embarked on her career with a civil service job at the Department of Works for New York City. Committed to pursuing a career in architecture, she eventually accepted a position at Skidmore, Owings and Merrill in New York before, four years later, relocating to Los Angeles for a position at Gruen Associates. It was there that Sklarek’s career accelerated; she was named the firm’s director in 1966 before transferring to the firm Welton Becket as the company’s vice president. Her influential oeuvre includes the American Embassy in Tokyo, the fashion center California Mart, Fox Plaza in San Francisco, and Terminal One at Los Angeles International Airport. Sklarek became the first Black woman to receive a fellowship from the American Institute of Architects in 1980. Five years later, she founded Siegel, Sklarek, Diamond, together with Margot Siegal and Katherine Diamond, becoming the first African-American woman to establish and manage an architectural firm. The Norma Merrick Sklarek ’50 B.Arch Scholars Fund will be used over the next three academic years to support a cohort of full tuition financial aid awards and will be aimed at positively addressing inequity and barriers for students who have historically been underrepresented at GSAPP. Intended to promote diversity, inclusion, and equity by breaking down barriers to access for graduate study, the first Sklarek scholarships will be funded with $1 million from GSAPP. More Information Make a gift to the Norma Merrick Sklarek Scholars Fund to establish an endowment for the same purpose, helping GSAPP make this initiative permanent. Norma Merrick Sklarek on the Pioneering Women of American Architecture website. Norma Merrick Sklarek on Columbia University’s Notable Columbians website. Norma Merrick Sklarek’s collections are housed at the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. News June 01, 2022 Explore Japanese Music with Community Scholar Marco Lienhard May 30, 2022 Construction Update: Weeks of 5/30/22 and 6/6/22 May 27, 2022 Meet 4 Local Freedom and Citizenship Students Graduating High School This Spring (Some Heading to Columbia!) May 24, 2022 20 Photos from the Joyous, Fun-Filled Return of Community Day on Columbia's Manhattanville Campus May 20, 2022 Construction Update: Weeks of 5/23/22 and 5/30/22 The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close