Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home Manhattanville Explore the Campus Lenfest Center for the Arts Lenfest Center for the Arts The Lenfest Center for the Arts is an arts venue designed for the presentation and creation of art across disciplines, providing a dynamic new space for Columbia University School of the Arts. With four stories of double-height venues for exhibitions, performances, screenings, symposia, readings and lectures, Lenfest is able to present new, global voices and perspectives. The building provides a publicly accessible home for Columbia’s Miriam and Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery, and the a state-of-the-art facility in the Katharina Otto-Bernstein Screening Room, as well as a flexible performance space and The Lantern, an open setting for events. Venues in the Lenfest Center The Katharina Otto-Bernstein Screening Room: A 150-seat theater with both advanced digital technology and 35mm archival capability, for advanced screenings, festivals, critical surveys, and new media. The Miriam & Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery: Columbia University’s premiere visual arts space, The Miriam & Ira D. Wallach Art Gallery presents exhibitions focusing on the contemporary artists of our campus and communities and new scholarship on the University’s special collections organized by graduate students and faculty in Art History & Archaeology and other Columbia scholars. Flexible Performance Space: A space for original and reimagined theatrical work and performance. A wall of windows and exterior balcony provide sweeping views of Manhattan, Riverside Viaduct, and the Hudson River. The Lantern: A sky-lit, open setting for an array of conversations on contemporary culture—from lectures by award-winning writers and theoreticians to workshops, charrettes, recitals, exhibitions, and interdisciplinary symposia on urgent topics of the day. "Home to Ithaca" by Romare Bearden Design & Sustainability Renzo Piano Building Workshop designed the eight-story, 60,000-square-foot structure with Davis Brody Bond, LLP, as executive architect and Body Lawson Associates, a Harlem-based certified Minority Business Enterprise (MBE), as associate architect—the same team that designed the Jerome L. Greene Science Center. The design team utilized innovative structural techniques to achieve high ceilings and large open spaces uninterrupted by columns—critical elements for a performing arts center that cannot be attained with standard I-steel beams. Windows in some of the venues allow for flexibility in controlling natural light, including a skylight on the ceiling of the 8th floor’s flexible presentation space, which features custom lighting and motorized shade tracks. The Lenfest Center for the Arts was made possible by a gift from former University Trustee H.F. “Gerry” Lenfest (LAW ’58, HON ’89), an admired patron of the arts who has also served on the boards of Philadelphia’s Museum of Art, the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts and the Curtis Institute of Music. Learn more about the architecture, design and construction teams (PDF) and about sustainability for the Lenfest Center for the Arts. More About the Lenfest Center Lenfest Center for the Arts Wallach Art Gallery Events at Lenfest Lenfest Newsletter Sign-Up Manhattanville Campus Links Explore the Campus Neighborhood & Campus History Community Commitments Construction Updates Campus Sustainability Keep Exploring Check out our buildings and spaces! Jerome L. Greene Science Center Lenfest Center for the Arts The Forum The Plaza Columbia Business School 600 West 125th Street The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close