Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home Resources Resources Resources Hundreds of Resources Available to the Community Columbia's University has a longstanding commitment to partnerships in our community—from faculty members who are among the most eminent scholars of Harlem history and culture, to thousands of students serving and learning in programs that improve the quality of life through medical and dental care, teaching and mentoring and small business mentorship. Columbia commits not only funding, but also the time and energy of students, faculty, and staff who work in partnership with a wide array of local organizations that make a difference to people in Upper Manhattan. With the Manhattanville Campus expansion, two major agreements codify the University's commitment to new investment in our local community. They are the Community Benefits Agreement, in partnership with the West Harlem Development Corporation, and the Declaration of Covenants and Restrictions with Empire State Development (ESD). Read more about those agreements on the Manhattanville Community Commitments page of our website. We have compiled a directory of all the resources available to our neighbors via a directory. We hope you find it useful! Find a Resource Age Groups Browse By Age Groups Early Childhood Ages 0-5 Children Ages 5-14 Youth Ages 12-24 Adults 18-55 Older Adults 55+ By Category Browse by Popular Categories Career Development Summer Programs Health & Wellness Social Services Teachers & Teaching See All Programs & Resources Resource Related Events Jun4Sat Small Business Finance 102 Online 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM Resource Spotlight Community In the Libraries: Springtime Events In Person and Online at George Bruce Library Portrait photography, crochet, Korean rock n roll music, and computer basics are just a few of the topics that patrons can learn about this month. Resource Related News May 06, 2022 In the Libraries: Springtime Events In Person and Online at George Bruce Library Portrait photography, crochet, Korean rock n roll music, and computer basics are just a few of the topics that patrons can learn about this month. Tags ResourcesHarlem April 11, 2022 In the Libraries: National Poetry Month and Earth Day at George Bruce Library Find poetry recommendations from the NYPL, see art from local artists, and even play video games at George Bruce Library this month. Tags ResourcesHarlem March 08, 2022 In the Libraries: Enjoy In-Person Events Again at George Bruce Celebrate Women's History Month, share book recommendations, and enjoy in-person events at George Bruce Library this March. Tags ResourcesHarlem More News The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close