Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home News In the Libraries: November at George Bruce Education In the Libraries: November at George Bruce By Maggie Barrows November 08, 2021 Vénus africaine and Saïd Abdullah, de la Tribu de Mayac, Royaume de Darfour by Charles Henri Joseph Cordier, on display as part of the Polonsky Exhibition of the New York Public Library's Treasures. Photo by Robert Kato. This November, George Bruce Library on 125th Street hosts virtual book discussions, Crochet & Chat hours, and in-person instruction on the basics of computer use for seniors. All New York Public Library locations will be closed on November 11, November 25, and November 26. Did you know that as of October 5, the New York Public Library has eliminated overdue fines? All balances have been cleared, and going forward returning books late will not incur fines or fees. If a book is more than 30 days overdue, it will be declared lost and a replacement fee will be charged, but returning the book removes that fee. NYPL locations offer nearly all of their in-person services with masks required, and many events are also held virtually. Stop by George Bruce Library for browsing, seating, and computer access. Upcoming Events Adults 50+ can schedule a one-on-one in person computer basics session that covers using a computer, the internet, some software, and also how to use the library's online resources, including downloading e-books. Call 212-662-9727 or sign up at the front desk. This month's Open Book Hour for adults is on November 10 at 12PM. Join your fellow readers to swap recommendations, talk about your current reading, and more. Join a Crochet & Chat event virtually on November 10 or November 17 at 2PM and learn the basics of the fibercraft. Teens ages 13-18 can discuss their current reading Open Book Hour just for them on November 16 at 4PM. Join the Teen Advisory Group on November 18 at 4PM to help guide the George Bruce Library's staff as they plan programming for your fellow teens. Live online story time for children ages 3-5 (and their caretakers) is on November 18 at 4PM. Past Updates from George Bruce Library October 2021 September 2021 August 2021 Exhibitions and Resources The New York Public Library's first-ever permanent exhibition highlighting their world-renowned research collections is now open! Explore the Polonsky Exhibition of The New York Public Library's Treasures online, or reserve a ticket to go see it in person. Get learning resources for kids of all ages, educators, parents, and caregivers. Whether in person or online, the library connects you with after school care, books, homework help, learning activities and tools, and much more. Watch one of the recorded story times with your child, hosted by George Bruce children's librarian Margo Moore. Get multilingual resources from the library in 24 languages, check out storytimes in several languages, find English as a Second Language classes, and more. Learn about the new procedures now that all NYPL branches are open. The New York Public Library (NYPL) is a great resource for New Yorkers, offering virtual events, free online services, and a wide variety of support during the COVID-19 pandemic. Columbia Neighbors has partnered with the George Bruce Library on 125th Street to provide regular updates from library staff and highlight its fantastic offerings. For more news from the George Bruce Library, follow them on Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter. Tags Resources Harlem News June 01, 2022 Explore Japanese Music with Community Scholar Marco Lienhard May 30, 2022 Construction Update: Weeks of 5/30/22 and 6/6/22 May 27, 2022 Meet 4 Local Freedom and Citizenship Students Graduating High School This Spring (Some Heading to Columbia!) May 24, 2022 20 Photos from the Joyous, Fun-Filled Return of Community Day on Columbia's Manhattanville Campus May 20, 2022 Construction Update: Weeks of 5/23/22 and 5/30/22 The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close