Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Facilities and Operations Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded About Us Services News Vendors Connect Community Core Operating Departments People Reports Awards Feedback Newsletter Careers Open Positions Union Commitment COVID-19 Building Readiness Become a Vendor Vendor Expectations and Requirements Vendor Resources Minority-, Women- and Locally-owned Business Enterprises Facilities and Operations You are here: Home News Facilities and Operations Adds Columbia Law as Resource for Vendor Growth Program Minority, Women, and Local Initiatives Facilities and Operations Adds Columbia Law as Resource for Vendor Growth Program May 06, 2022 Students from Columbia Law's Entrepreneurship and Community Development Clinic (ECDC) provided contract guidance to current participants in the CU Grow Vendor Development Program during a pop-up clinic on April 14th. The legal pop-up clinic, which provided assistance in strategizing, negotiating, drafting, and reviewing contracts and agreements, is a newly added component to the CU Grow program’s curriculum. Thirteen law students supported 10 minority-, women-, and locally-owned (MWL) businesses in contract negotiations strategies and offered firms feedback on language to include in future contract provisions. In addition to the pop-up clinic, the ECDC also hosted a Contract Review Webinar for the 6th cohort, providing examples of contract language used in contracts within the construction industry and offering guidance on contract deal breakers. “Having the opportunity to participate at the pop-up clinic was invaluable,” says Pauline Charles –Ajim, CEO of JPR Builder 07, a general construction firm that specializes in residential and commercial renovations. “The students were great and provided insights to deal with upcoming contracts from our clients moving forward.” Launched in 2018, the ECDC pop-up clinic provides Columbia Law students with the opportunity to develop business law and problem-solving skills while representing entrepreneurs, nonprofit organizations, and community groups. The CU Grow Program follows a structured curriculum designed by the Columbia University School of Professional Studies. The program pairs MWL businesses with expert coaches that guide them to create a three–year growth plan. The program also provides access to resources such as the law clinic to teach firms best business practices so that they can strategically plan for their business growth. Learn more about the CU Grow Vendor Development Program and Columbia Law's ECDC. Tags Minority, Women and Local Initiatives Community News May 23, 2022 Fauzias Heavenly Delights Brings a Taste of the Caribbean to the Manhattanville Campus May 19, 2022 Summer 2022 Construction Projects May 19, 2022 Congratulations to CUFO 2022 Graduates May 16, 2022 inFO: CUFO e-Newsletter, May 2022 May 11, 2022 Facilities and Operations Team Imparts Career Advice to High School Students Phone Facilities Services Center - 212-854-2222 Contact Us [email protected] Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close