Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home Community Wellness Center Community Wellness Center The Wellness Center provides health resources to area residents. Located on the ground floor of the Jerome L. Greene Science Center, the Wellness Center provides health resources to area residents. ColumbiaDoctors host community-based initiatives that train members of the Harlem community to become health advocates to prevent stroke and promote mental health. The center also provides free cholesterol and blood pressure screenings, health insurance enrollment, weight counseling, and other services. Health Insurance Enrollment Assistance Program Staff at the Columbia Wellness Center are offering virtual appointments to enroll in the New York State of Health marketplace. The upcoming open enrollment season begins on November 1, 2020 and now extended until March 31, 2021. For individuals who would like a navigator (Certified Application Counselor) to walk them through the application process, we ask that they use this link to schedule an appointment with a member of our team: http://whenisgood.net/columbiawellnesscenter Ask-A-Nurse Hotline The Columbia Wellness Center aims to empower individuals by offering health education and community resources. We know that people may feel uneasy about visiting their healthcare providers in-person, especially if all they have is a simple question that requires medical expertise that's beyond their knowledge. We are here to clarify any questions you may have and to offer emotional support and guidance as you continue to take care of yourself during this difficult time. (Flyer attached) To request a 30-minute visit with our staff nurse, please visit this link: http://whenisgood.net/askanurse Please note that the Wellness Center is not a clinical practice. Contact Information Website: Community Wellness Center Phone: (212) 853-1146 Email: [email protected] Address: Jerome L. Greene Science Center, Ground floor, New York, NY 10027 Age Groups Adults Older Adults Categories Health & Wellness The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close