Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home Manhattanville Explore the Campus Columbia Business School Columbia Business School Columbia Business School's new home will span approximately 492,000 square feet across two buildings and will reflect the fast-paced, high-tech and highly social character of business in the 21st century. The two new facilities will create multifunctional spaces that foster a sense of community—spaces where students, faculty, alumni and practitioners can gather to exchange ideas. Between the two buildings will be the largest planned open area in phase 1 of construction—an approximately 40,000-square-foot area known as The Square. Kravis Hall, East Elevation. Photo by Iwan Baan. Columbia Business School’s New Home Columbia Business School opened the doors on its new buildings, the Henry R. Kravis Hall and David Geffen Hall, in January 2022. These beautiful spaces on the Manhattanville Campus doubled the School’s current square footage, allowing us to reimagine the future of business education. Geffen Hall, Level 1 Cooperman Commons. Photo by Iwan Baan. High-Tech and Highly Social The structures are designed by the renowned New York architecture firm Diller Scofidio + Renfro in collaboration with FXCollaborative and Harlem-based AARRIS ATEPA Architects, a certified Women and Minority Business Enterprise (WMBE), as associate architect. The firms' ideas-based approach to architecture complements the School’s operating principle for the Manhattanville campus—that the project is not about bricks and mortar, but rather about transforming the School, business education and business itself. Kravis Hall, Level 1 Samberg Commons. Photo by Iwan Baan. Designed for Flexibility The designs include spaces that encourage the development of social intelligence skills and collaboration across disciplines, flexible classroom space with the latest technology, dedicated spaces for recruiting, events and networking and an alumni welcome center. Recognizing that creativity, innovation and communication—skills often nurtured in informal environments—are as important to contemporary business school pedagogy as the traditional, quantitative skills best taught in a classroom, the building’s internal spaces are organized around two distinct networks that foster informal interaction between the student and faculty of the school. Each network is a combination of circulation routes, lounge spaces, dining facilities and study rooms that facilitate planned and unplanned interaction 24 hours a day. Kravis Hall, Level 9 Student Network. Photo by Iwan Baan. Where these networks meet the landscape at the street-level urban layer, major public spaces are established: in one building, a two-story, urban-scale living room, and in the other, a terraced interior space that doubles as a 300-seat large conference space. Manhattanville Campus Links Explore the Campus Neighborhood & Campus History Community Commitments Construction Updates Campus Sustainability Keep Exploring Check out our buildings and spaces! Jerome L. Greene Science Center Lenfest Center for the Arts The Forum The Plaza Columbia Business School 600 West 125th Street The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close