Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home Melissa D. Begg Melissa D. Begg Melissa Begg is Dean of the Columbia School of Social Work. She is a population health scientist deeply committed to developing the strongest possible evidence base for human health and well-being. She previously served as Vice Provost for Academic Programs at Columbia University and vice dean of public health; she was also co-director of the Irving Institute for Clinical and Translational Research. Her early research focused on methods for evaluating associations from sibling studies, especially as applied to early life determinants of adult health. She has directed a number of NIH-funded training programs, including two career development programs to promote diversity in the health sciences. Dr. Begg was given the University-wide Presidential Award for Outstanding Teaching in 2006. As an academic administrator, she has focused on convening interdisciplinary scientific teams, developing innovative curricula, creating academic mentorship programs, and advancing diversity in the research workforce. Dean, School of Social Work; Professor of Social Work and Biostatistics, School of Social Work Contact Info 1255 Amsterdam Avenue, Suite 615, United States +1 212 851 2289 [email protected] The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close