Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home News 2021 Summer Programs for Students and Educators Education 2021 Summer Programs for Students and Educators By Maggie Barrows February 17, 2021 Freedom and Citizenship participants on Columbia's campus. While the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted in-person education at all levels, many great programs for high school students, college students, and educators will be continuing his summer, either virtually or in person. A selection of available programs and their application deadlines are below. Information will be updated as it becomes available. For Students School of Professional Studies Summer Immersion Program (financial aid applications due March 4, 2021): Students currently in grades 9-12 admitted to the program can take one- or three-week courses, engage with Columbia scholars and experts, and prepare for the college admissions process. Freedom and Citizenship (applications due March 15, 2021): For 11th grade students in New York City high schools who are from low-income families or will be the first in their family to attend college, Freedom and Citizenship provides an introduction to college-level work in the humanities and helps prepare the students for lives as informed, responsible citizens. Summer High School Academic Program For Engineers (applications due March 25, 2021): SHAPE is geared toward local students who have demonstrated an interest in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM). Each 3-week session offers college-level courses in engineering, which are complemented by electives and workshops. Scholarships are available. State Pre-College Enrichment Program Summer Session (applications due April 15, 2021): S-PREP is a free high school and college preparatory program designed for 7th - 12th grade students who are interested in pursuing a career in medicine or related STEM fields. Summer Session classes are held Monday through Friday (10 am - 3 pm) in the month of July, and include anatomy, chemistry, brain & cognitive science, psychology, calculus, PSAT prep, and more. For College Students Summer Program for Under-Represented Students (applications due February 15, 2021): The Department of Physiology and Cellular Biophysics at Columbia University invites undergraduate students from under-represented minorities or economically disadvantaged backgrounds interested in graduate education in a biomedical field to participate in this summer research program. The Program to Inspire Minority Undergraduates in Environmental Health Science Research (applications due February 15, 2021): PrIMER is a two-year research program for full-time, undergraduate underrepresented minority and underserved students interested in environmental health sciences. The two-year program begins in June before participants' junior year with a 10-week summer program. Trainees are paired with a Columbia University faculty member who serves as a research and academic mentor, attend weekly professional development workshops, and interact closely with Columbia University faculty. Columbia University and Amazon Summer Undergraduate Research Experience (SURE) Program (applications due February 25, 2021): This eight-week program in New York City will allow undergraduate students from outside Columbia an opportunity to engage in cutting edge research at Columbia University and be mentored by faculty and STEM professionals representing multiple career paths from academia and industry. Schomburg-Mellon Humanities Summer Institute (applications due March 15, 2021): Open to U.S. citizens and permanent residents, this one month fellowship for ten rising seniors explores a variety of disciplines (including history, literature, arts, religion, and cultural studies) and historical periods. Students from HBCUs are encouraged to apply. Biostatistics and Epidemiology Summer Training (BEST) Diversity Program (applications due March 15, 2021): This eight week program seeks to expand and diversify the behavioral and biomedical science workforce by introducing undergraduate students who come from backgrounds currently underrepresented in public health research to biostatistics, epidemiology, and research. 10-15 students participate every summer. For Educators National Endowment for the Humanities Summer Institute for Teachers (applications due March 1): This two-week virtual institute expands the typical Civil Rights Movement narrative by focusing on struggles for educational opportunities in Harlem. This institute will admit 25 teachers of grades 6-12. COSMOS-NewLAW Summer Research Experience for Teachers (applications coming soon): This six-week paid summer program for teachers covers how to master the most advanced techniques in wireless technology with help from researchers at Columbia University and NYU. Participants must teach at a public middle or high school in New York City. News June 01, 2022 Explore Japanese Music with Community Scholar Marco Lienhard May 30, 2022 Construction Update: Weeks of 5/30/22 and 6/6/22 May 27, 2022 Meet 4 Local Freedom and Citizenship Students Graduating High School This Spring (Some Heading to Columbia!) May 24, 2022 20 Photos from the Joyous, Fun-Filled Return of Community Day on Columbia's Manhattanville Campus May 20, 2022 Construction Update: Weeks of 5/23/22 and 5/30/22 The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close