Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Summer Internship Program Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Summer Internship Program The Lamont-Doherty Summer Intern Program offers the chance to experience scientific research as an undergraduate. The program is open to US citizens or permanent residents who have completed their junior or sophomore year in college or community college with majors in earth science, environmental science, chemistry, biology, physics, mathematics, or engineering. Neither graduating seniors nor international students with the exception of sophomore and junior students from SUSTech who are fully funded by their university are eligible for this internship. Minorities and women are encouraged to apply. Applicants should have an interest in conducting research in the Earth or ocean sciences. Two previous Earth- or ocean-science courses are desirable if they are available to the student. All students are required to have at least one year of calculus. Students choosing research in geochemistry and chemical oceanography are required to have at least two semesters of college-level chemistry. Students choosing research in marine biology are required to have at least two semesters of college-level biology. Students choosing research in geophysics should have at least three semesters of college-level physics. The Marine Geoscience Data System group at Lamont provides a freely-available tool called GeoMapApp that allows the exploration and visualization of global data sets (www.geomapapp.org ). With GeoMapApp, users can create custom maps and grids, import their own data sets and grids, and explore and visualize a wide range of global data sets. These include a multi-resolutional digital elevation model of the oceans and continents; plate tectonic information; undersea feature names; shipboard topography, gravity and magnetics data; earthquake catalogues; deep sea core data; Alvin submersible photos around hydrothermal vents; rock sample geochemistry; satellite-derived gravity and geoid grids; seismic reflection profiles, and more. GeoMapApp is written in Java and works on any type of computer. All interns will be instructed in the use of GeoMapApp during the second week of the intern program. Interns will be encouraged to use GeoMapApp during their research projects, as well as after they have returned to their undergraduate institutions. However, both the student and the supervisor will design the research program, and therefore individual projects may contain variable amounts of data collection and data analysis. The program features: A hands-on research project under the supervision of a Columbia-affiliated scientist; special lectures, workshops and field trips; free housing in an air-conditioned Columbia dormitory; Contact Information Website: Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory Phone: (845) 365-8664 Address: Lamont-Doherty Earth Observatory, 103A Oceanography, Palisades, NY 10964 Age Groups Youth Categories Education Summer Programs The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close