Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home Things to Do in Manhattanville Things to Do in Manhattanville A vibrant area located on the West Side, Manhattanville offers the public a chance to experience history and take in the changes transforming the community. Check out these things to do when you’re in the neighborhood. The Wallach Art Gallery The Wallach Art Gallery is Columbia’s unique art collection. It is the scene of global collaborations with the world’s leading museums and a showcase for the art happening Uptown. Experience art and culture in the heart of Harlem. The Vital Climbing Gym You don’t have to travel far to get in some physical activity The Vital Climbing Gym, formerly known as Steep Rock Bouldering. Rock climbing is available at this location in Manhattanville where you can indulge in a membership or buy a day pass just to try it out. West Harlem Piers Park Check out West Harlem’s very own waterfront pier that spans from 125th to 135th streets along the Hudson River. Take your fishing rod, bring your laptop to enjoy free Wi-Fi, or simply immerse yourself in the views. In the summertime, don’t forget to stop by the Baylander for some food and drinks. Cotton Club Stop by the historic jazz club where the greatest African American blues and jazz musicians once played. The venue still has shows that run several days throughout the week. Even if you don’t happen to make it inside, you can take a pretty cool photo among its iconic signs. The 12th Ave. viaduct at W. 125th St. will have lights installed as part of a $14.5 million streetscape enhancement project. (Noonan, Jeanne Freelance NYDN) Harlem Viaduct Arches Visit the famous backdrop to many movies and shows and envision yourself in a scene of your own. The viaduct arches, starting at 125th Street on 12th Avenue, are a great photo opp if you can escape the traffic. Riverbank State Park Opportunities for fun are endless in this state park. There is ice skating in the winter, roller skating in the spring and summer, and a year-round track. Sports and activities include everything from swimming to tennis. Once you hit your fitness goals, you can also stop by the Puerto Rican restaurant, Sofritos, which is located in the park. Keep Exploring Manhattanville Visit the Campus Things To Do Places to Eat Community Resources Community Commitments History of Sheffield Farms History of Manhattanville The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close