Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home News WE ACT's Peggy Shepard Delivered the Keynote at the First Columbia Climate School Graduation Community WE ACT's Peggy Shepard Delivered the Keynote at the First Columbia Climate School Graduation The beloved community leader discussed climate change’s disproportionate impacts on communities of color, Indigenous peoples, and low-income communities. By Kelly Moffitt May 16, 2022 WE ACT for Environmental Justice's Peggy Shepard addresses the crowd as the keynote speaker at the inaugural Columbia Climate School graduation in Miller Theatre on May 13, 2022. Photo by Michael DiVito. On Friday, May 13, 2022, at 11 a.m., Columbia Climate School held its inaugural graduation in Miller Theatre on the Morningside campus. Among the 86 graduating students in the MA in Climate and Society program graduating, their families, and leaders of the Climate School was a special guest with strong ties to Upper Manhattan: WE ACT for Environmental Justice's Co-Founder and Executive Director Peggy Shepard. WE ACT has a long history of organizing and engaging Upper Manhattan residents in community-based planning and campaigns to address environmental protection and environmental health policy locally and nationally. Shepard discussed climate change’s disproportionate impacts on communities of color, Indigenous peoples, and low-income communities, and how the world cannot transition away from fossil fuels without also addressing inequity and systemic racism. (You can watch her speech here, which is introduced at 26:00 and begins at 27:40, as well as the rest of the graduation ceremony.) “Climate change is arguably one of the most significant social and political challenges of this century,” Shepard said. “But you all know that. The question is: what will you do about it?" The Climate School deans gather with environmental justice advocate Peggy Shepard (center). Deans, from left to right: Alex Halliday, Ruth DeFries, Maureen Raymo, and Jason Bordoff. Photo by Michael DiVito. Shepard continued: "Those of us who have been privileged to achieve education, skills, and experiences, and even power, we must be role models. We must be changemakers with the spirit of justice, collaboration, and ethical leadership. We can all be changemakers. That is our challenge for you today.” You can watch the full ceremony and hear from the Climate School's founding deans Jason Bordoff, Ruth DeFries, Alex Halliday, and Maureen Raymo, and read more about the Climate School's inaugural graduating class. You can find more stories from Commencement Week 2022 here. Subscribe to our newsletter to stay up-to-date on the event: * indicates required Email Address * Tags Community Social Justice News June 01, 2022 Explore Japanese Music with Community Scholar Marco Lienhard May 30, 2022 Construction Update: Weeks of 5/30/22 and 6/6/22 May 27, 2022 Meet 4 Local Freedom and Citizenship Students Graduating High School This Spring (Some Heading to Columbia!) May 24, 2022 20 Photos from the Joyous, Fun-Filled Return of Community Day on Columbia's Manhattanville Campus May 20, 2022 Construction Update: Weeks of 5/23/22 and 5/30/22 The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close