Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home Manhattanville Construction Updates and Opportunities Construction Updates and Opportunities Construction Updates and Opportunities Retail Space Availability To learn about current retail leasing opportunities available on the Manhattanville Campus, visit: https://neighbors.columbia.edu/content/manhattanville-retail-availability Construction Opportunities We expect design and construction work in Manhattanville to create numerous opportunities for people with a wide range of skills and experience. Specific opportunities will be announced as the project progresses. Employment Opportunities Click here to view the online information session regarding construction work opportunities at the 600 West 125th Street project. Looking to get into the construction industry? Contact our partner, Pathways to Apprenticeship at [email protected] for information about union pre-apprenticeship programs. Find out more about non-construction–related job opportunities at Columbia. Contracting Current Opportunities 600 West 125th Street Information for Construction Firms Interested in Subcontracting Opportunities Prime Contractors Who Have Been Awarded Contracts: 600 West 125th Street Expand all Collapse all Past Opportunities Columbia Business School Phase II Below Grade Bid Columbia Business School and Phase II Below Grade University Forum Lenfest Center for the Arts Jerome L. Greene Science Center & Portions of the Central Energy Plant Manhattanville Intumescent Coating and Spray Applied Fireproofing Manhattanville Central Energy Plant Manhattanville Fabrication and Erection of Structural Steel Manhattanville Abatement and Demolition of Vacant Buildings Manhattanville Slurry Wall and Foundation Projects Manhattanville Utilities 12th Avenue Storm Sewer Project Manhattanville Abatement and Demolition of Vacant Buildings Manhattanville Construction Photographer Manhattanville Sidewalk Repairs and Site Work Commitment to Minority-, Women- and Locally-Owned (MWL) Businesses Columbia University is committed to supporting Minority-, Women- and Locally-Owned (MWL) businesses and workforce participation. Construction Contracting Columbia University's goal is to award 35 percent of the total dollar value of Phase I Site Development construction subcontracts governed by the PLA to Minority-, Women- and Locally-Owned Business Enterprises (MWLBE), excluding Specialty Construction Services. (As defined in the CBA, "Specialty Construction Services" shall mean construction services of a unique or special nature and for which there exists a limited number of qualified business entities that can perform such services. These Specialty Construction Services are specifically listed in CBA - Exhibit E.) Columbia University uses good faith efforts to unbundle (e.g. divide into smaller bid packages) certain sections of the Construction Work to increase participation by MWLBE’s Non-Construction Contracting Columbia University's goal is to award 35 percent of total dollar value of non-construction contracts (excluding academic and research contracts) throughout the life of the Project to MWLBE, provided that “Local” shall include the five (5) boroughs of New York City. Construction Workforce Participation Columbia University has a goal of 40 percent MWL workforce participation in construction activities, excluding Specialty Construction Services. Columbia University includes non-discrimination and affirmative action obligations in all construction contracts entered into by Columbia or by Columbia contractors or subcontractors relating to the construction of the Project Columbia University includes in its standard RFP templates (i) a statement indicating that the University is committed to the hiring of qualified Local Residents when possible and (ii) a question seeking information about the vendor’s record and practices in that regard Click here to view the most recent Manhattanville MWL Workforce and Spending Summary. Construction Updates Columbia University provides weekly updates on construction taking place on the Manhattanville campus. Current Week's Updates Construction 600 W. 125th Street construction site, looking west Construction Update: Weeks of 5/30/22 and 6/6/22 The latest updates on what to expect and construction updates related to the Manhattanville campus. Sign Up for Weekly Email Updates The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close