Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home Local Events Celebrate AAPI Heritage Being Taught in NYC Curriculum Events Current and Upcoming Celebrate AAPI Heritage Being Taught in NYC Curriculum Share Add to Calendar: Google Yahoo June 5, 2022 2:00 PM 120th Street between Lenox Avenue and Mount Morris Park West On Sunday, June 5, 2022 from 2-5 p.m., join Marcus Meets Malcolm on W. 120th Street to celebrate AAPI heritage being added to New York City's school curriculum by our mayor! We will share with you and your children a whole host of activities well-loved by the AAPI community, including dancing, ping pong, 9-man volleyball, and GO board game. And, it's not a celebration without food! Come learn how to wrap dumplings and sample some traditional tamales we eat in the Dragon Boat Festival. The location is at 120th Street between Lenox Avenue and Mount Morris Park West. LEARN MORE Connect with the Upper Manhattan Asian Alliance to Help Our Neighbors in Harlem The event is jointly sponsored by Marcus Meets Malcolm, Asian American For Equity (AAFE) and Upper Manhattan Asian American Alliance (UMAAA). We thank Mayor Eric Adams and many other officials for this important step towards improving racial equity and cultural understanding in New York City. And, do join us to advocate to pass similar legislation in New York State. We do need donation to help supply food for the event. Please donate via our website. Upcoming Events The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close