Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home Manhattanville Explore the Campus Jerome L. Greene Science Center Jerome L. Greene Science Center The Jerome L. Greene Science Center was conceived as a place for human connection, intellectual excellence and pioneering research that cuts across traditional academic boundaries. Home to Columbia’s Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute, it is a hub that brings together faculty and students from across Columbia University, scholars from around the world and members of the local community. Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute The Zuckerman Institute brings together a constellation of neuroscientists, engineers, statisticians, psychologists and other scholars from across Columbia University who collaborate on research, teaching and public programming. A deeper understanding of the brain promises to transform human health and society. From effective treatments for disorders like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, depression and autism, to advances in fields as fundamental as computer science, economics, law, the arts and social policy, the potential impact for humanity is enormous. Community Programs at Jerome Greene Designed to serve both the campus and local community, the building's ground floor houses restaurant and retail options, as well as public events and interactive installations that engage people of all ages in the wonders of brain science. Zuckerman Institute Programs Designed with feedback from the community, the Zuckerman Education Lab is open year-round and hosts a variety of hands-on brain science programs. These programs harness the groundbreaking research of the Institute in creative ways for school children, families, after-school groups and adults. Two of the Education Lab's programs are Saturday Science and STEM Starters. In addition to the Education Lab, the Zuckerman Institute offers a wide range of programming, for children, youth, adults, and educators. Those programs include BRAINYAC summer lab internships for high school students, Girls Who Code Club, and BrainSTEM lesson plans and activities. Wellness Center The Community Wellness Center provides education and resources to empower people in making healthy lifestyle adjustments. Services provided by the Wellness Center include health insurance enrollment, healthcare referrals, blood pressure and cholesterol screenings, mental health first aid, and stroke prevention training. They also offer workshops on a variety of health and wellness topics. Dear Mama Coffee Dear Mama's second location is a flagship venue across 5,000 square feet of indoor and outdoor space: coffee & cocktail bar, live music, full restaurant and mezzanine lounge with beautiful sunset views. In addition to coffee and espresso drinks, Dear Mama offers a food menu with a selection of freshly-baked croissants and cookies with seasonally-inspired sandwiches, soups, salads, and more. Steep Rock Bouldering Established in January 2014, Steep Rock Bouldering is a family of rock climbing gyms in Manhattan. Since June 2017, they have had a location in the Jerome L. Greene Science Center that offers classes for adults and youth in bouldering and other strength training, after-school programming, and parties and events. Sustainability & Development The nine-story, 450,000-square-foot structure is the largest that Columbia has ever built and the biggest academic science building in New York City. The building was made possible by a gift from the late Dawn M. Greene (HON '80) and the Jerome L. Greene Foundation in memory of Jerome L. Greene (CC '26, LAW '28). The Zuckerman Institute was established through a gift from New York philanthropist and business leader Mortimer B. Zuckerman. Designed by Pritzker Prize-winning architect Renzo Piano Building Workshop with Davis Brody Bond, LLP, as executive architect and Body Lawson Associates, a Harlem-based certified Minority Business Enterprise (MBE), as associate architect, the Greene Science Center creates innovative spaces that fuel a collision of ideas. Find an in-depth description (PDF) of the Jerome L. Greene Science Center's architecture and of the design and construction teams. Through the building’s design, Columbia University sought to ensure that the Jerome L. Greene Science Center would be a model of sustainable urban design. Read more about sustainability on the Manhattanville campus. In the Jerome L. Greene Science Center Mortimer B. Zuckerman Mind Brain Behavior Institute Columbia Wellness Center Dear Mama Coffee Steep Rock Bouldering Manhattanville Campus Links Explore the Campus Neighborhood & Campus History Community Commitments Construction Updates Campus Sustainability Keep Exploring Check out our buildings and spaces! Jerome L. Greene Science Center Lenfest Center for the Arts The Forum The Plaza Columbia Business School 600 West 125th Street The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close