Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home Manhattanville Explore the Campus Explore the Campus Getting to Manhattanville The campus spans from Broadway on the west to 12th Avenue on the East, from 125th Street at the south to 134th Street at the north end. The campus encompasses more than 17 acres with publicly accessible open space, tree-lined sidewalks and innovative buildings whose very transparency encourages shared knowledge and social engagement. The campus is easily accessible via public transportation. Take the 1 train to 125th Street and arrive just steps away from the gateway to the campus, The Forum. You can also take the ABCD trains to 125th Street and walk 10 minutes to campus. The University also offers a Community Shuttle for qualifying individuals which utilizes a number of routes, including the Manhattanville Loop, also available for University Affiliates. Buildings and Spaces Jerome L. Greene Science Center Lenfest Center for the Arts The Forum The Plaza Columbia Business School 600 W. 125th Street A core value of both the Manhattanville campus plan and the design of each new building is environmental sustainability, and there's a commitment to maximizing energy efficiency, limiting carbon emissions and creating pedestrian-friendly spaces. Learn more about sustainability on the new Manhattanville campus. Download Campus Map The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close