Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors Home Read more about Front Page Explore the Neighbors Hub A hub of news, resources, and more for our Neighbors in Upper Manhattan. map icon Explore the Manhattanville Campus search icon Find a Resource newspaper icon Get the Latest News calendar icon Find a Local Event wrench icon Get Construction Updates wpforms icon Submit News or Event Recent News Bundles Scholars Explore Japanese Music with Community Scholar Marco Lienhard June 01, 2022 A’Lelia Bundles Community Scholar Marco Lienhard is a student and performer of Japanese music on a variety of instruments. 600 W. 125th Street construction site, looking west Construction Construction Update: Weeks of 5/30/22 and 6/6/22 May 30, 2022 The latest updates on what to expect and construction updates related to the Manhattanville campus. Clockwise from top left: Melanie Ortiz, Geraldine Cabrera, Alejandro Alvarez Luna, and Joanna Cuatlayo. Education Meet 4 Local Freedom and Citizenship Students Graduating High School This Spring (Some Heading to Columbia!) May 27, 2022 The Freedom and Citizenship academic enrichment program at Columbia has graduated nearly 400 students since it began in 2009. More News Community Advisory Council at Columbia University Learn more Follow @NeighborsHub Powered by Curator.io Events Jun4Sat Small Business Finance 102 Online 11:00 AM - 12:00 PM Jun4Sat Hike the Heights Off-campus 10:00 AM - 3:00 PM America/New_York Jun5Sun Celebrate AAPI Heritage Being Taught in NYC Curriculum 120th Street between Lenox Avenue and Mount Morris Park West 2:00 PM More Events Sign Up For the Neighbors E-News Weekly updates on the latest happenings in our community. Subscribe * indicates required Email Address * Recent Issues 4/13: Health & Wellness Initiatives in Upper Manhattan 4/6: Recent Highlights 3/30: Meet A'Lelia Bundles: Journalist, Historian, Community Champion 3/23: Flores Forbes Talks Columbia's Antiracism Efforts Other Ways to Stay Connected Neighbors Newsletter The Neighbors Newsletter is a print resource for our constituents in Upper Manhattan that provides news and resources from the University and beyond. Download a copy of the 8-page Neighbors Newsletter that is sent out twice yearly to local residents, community leaders, and partner organizations. Sign up to have the next issue mailed directly to you. Neighbors Bulletin Included in our E-News, the bulletin provides a listing of upcoming events and community updates in an easy to read, one page format. It is available in English and Spanish. Download the most recent copy and past copies here. The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close