Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home News 20 Photos from the Joyous, Fun-Filled Return of Community Day on Columbia's Manhattanville Campus Photo Essay 20 Photos from the Joyous, Fun-Filled Return of Community Day on Columbia's Manhattanville Campus On May 21, Columbia's Manhattanville campus was abuzz with food, fun, and activities for our neighbors. By Kelly Moffitt May 24, 2022 Community Day returned to Columbia's Manhattanville campus on Saturday, May 21, 2022 for the first time since the start of the pandemic. Photo by Lou Rocco. On Saturday, May 21, 2022 community members, elected officials, Columbia staff, faculty, and friends of all sorts came to Columbia's Manhattanville campus for the return of Community Day. It was the first time the event was back in-person since the start of the pandemic. Attendees took in live performances, enjoyed free food samples from clients of the Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center, sketched the Harlem Streets with the Wallach Art Gallery, delved into the future of the mind at Saturday Science, jammed to the music of DJ Stormin' Norman, attended a local restaurant food crawl, watched the films Wall-E and E.T., and got free swag. Scroll through the photos below to relive the magic of the day. And stay tuned for information about the next Community Day, coming back to the Manhattanville campus this fall! Dances for a Variable Population performs in The Plaza. Photo by Lou Rocco. Children play bag toss in front of Dear Mama Coffee. Photo by Lou Rocco. District 7 Council Member Shaun Abreu poses with Dr. Robert Fullilove, co-director of the Manhattanville Wellness Center. Photo by Lou Rocco Children participate in a Saturday Science activity on The Plaza. Photo by Lou Rocco. Patrons line up at two food trucks, Fauzia's Heavenly Delights and The Little Hot Dog Wagon. Both businesses are clients of the Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center. Photo by Lou Rocco. Representative Adriano Espaillat and Assemblyman Al Taylor learn about brains from scientists at the Zuckerman Institute booth. Photo by Lou Rocco. Dinosaur BBQ, one of the three local restaurants participating in the Community Day food crawl, hands out sliders to visitors. Photo by Lou Rocco. Children play at the splash pad in front of Kravis Hall at Manhattanville Community Day. Photo by Lou Rocco. The Institute for Training Outreach and Community Health (InTOUCH), a part of Columbia’s Community Wellness Center, gave free blood pressure screenings. Photo by Lou Rocco. Saturday Science returned with a variety of activities in the Jerome L. Greene Science Center. Photo by Lou Rocco. A visitor enjoys a sample from Chatman J Cakes, a Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center client. Photo by Lou Rocco. "What's that?" Children participate in the Saturday Science activity that included a brain. Photo by Lou Rocco. DJ Stormin' Norman brought the party to The Square between Columbia Business School buildings on the Manhattanville campus. Photo by Lou Rocco. The Bio Bus was on-site at Community Day and everyone enjoyed a chance for some hands-on science education. Photo by Lou Rocco. Mama's One Sauce, a Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center client, hands out samples to visitors. Photo by Lou Rocco. Saturday Science volunteers, including graduate students from Zuckerman Institute and Bio Bus, pose inside the Jerome L. Greene Science Center's Education Lab. Photo by Lou Rocco. A New York Public Library staffer speaks with Manhattanville Community Day visitors. Photo by Lou Rocco. Uncle Waithley's Ginger Beer, a client of the Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center, handed out samples of the non-alcoholic drink. Photo by Lou Rocco. Children and parents partake in Saturday Science activities in the Education Lab at Jerome L. Greene Science Center. Photo by Lou Rocco. Subscribe to our newsletter to stay in the loop for the next event: * indicates required Email Address * Tags Manhattanville Community News June 01, 2022 Explore Japanese Music with Community Scholar Marco Lienhard May 30, 2022 Construction Update: Weeks of 5/30/22 and 6/6/22 May 27, 2022 Meet 4 Local Freedom and Citizenship Students Graduating High School This Spring (Some Heading to Columbia!) May 24, 2022 20 Photos from the Joyous, Fun-Filled Return of Community Day on Columbia's Manhattanville Campus May 20, 2022 Construction Update: Weeks of 5/23/22 and 5/30/22 The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close