Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home News Heating Up Quantum Science Education With Laser Cooling Education Heating Up Quantum Science Education With Laser Cooling A series of interactive workshops give educators tips and tools to cover quantum science in their classrooms. By Ellen Neff (Columbia News) October 12, 2021 Cooling in progress. A beam of sodium atoms glows orange as they re-emit photons after being struck by a laser beam. (Photo: Claire Warner/Columbia University) If you imagine a laser, you might think of beams of light popping balloons or slicing through a metal slab like butter. Lasers can indeed heat things up, but they can also cool things down. These days, physicists use laser cooling to understand the fundamentals of quantum physics, with implications for building things like super-precise atomic clocks and super-fast quantum computers. The Will Lab at Columbia University investigates quantum systems of ultracold atoms and molecules, focuses on fundamental questions in the field and contributes to the development of modern quantum technologies. Under the leadership of Sebastian Will, the lab developed a partnership with nonprofit STEMteachersNYC entitled "Laser Cooling: Quantum Physics Applications for High School Students" in an effort to give high school teachers the tools to share quantum physics with their students. "It's providing teachers with simple concepts that allow them to make a connection to modern quantum technology,” Will said. In collaboration with Fernand Brunschwig at STEMteachersNYC, Will and his graduate students distill their work in experimental physics to a few simple ideas that the teachers attending the workshops can understand. The training has a multiplier effect for reaching new audiences: if 50 teachers who attend a workshop go on to teach these concepts to 30 students at a time, that’s now 1,500 students with new quantum knowledge, Will said. Read the full article at Columbia News. Tags Education News June 01, 2022 Explore Japanese Music with Community Scholar Marco Lienhard May 30, 2022 Construction Update: Weeks of 5/30/22 and 6/6/22 May 27, 2022 Meet 4 Local Freedom and Citizenship Students Graduating High School This Spring (Some Heading to Columbia!) May 24, 2022 20 Photos from the Joyous, Fun-Filled Return of Community Day on Columbia's Manhattanville Campus May 20, 2022 Construction Update: Weeks of 5/23/22 and 5/30/22 The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close