Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home News Take a Peek Inside Columbia Business School, Which Opened This Week on the Manhattanville Campus Photo Essay Take a Peek Inside Columbia Business School, Which Opened This Week on the Manhattanville Campus Eight photos from inside the Columbia Business School's two new buildings on the Manhattanville campus. By Kelly Moffitt January 25, 2022 Photo by Diane Bondareff This week, the Columbia Business School officially marked its move to the Manhattanville campus as students started their semester on campus. The Business School consists of two buildings designed by Diller Scofidio + Renfro, in collaboration with FXCollaborative, called Henry R. Kravis Hall and David Geffen Hall. In addition to ushering in the future of business education, the 492,000-square-foot buildings will also offer the wider community a space for civic life, including a new home for the Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center on the second flood of Geffen Hall. The Manhattanville campus also connects the Business School with West Harlem community partners, entrepreneurs, and artists and offers an expanded space for the community. A 40,000-square-foot public park in between the Business School buildings, as well as new retail spaces—including a café featuring local products—unite the Business School more closely with the surrounding neighborhood. Below, find photographs and social media posts that give a sense of what the new Business School buildings are like. Henry R. Kravis Hall at night. Photo by Timothy Schenck. Columbia Business School Dean Costis Maglaras enters Kravis Hall. Photo by Diane Bondareff. A collaborative workspace within the Business School. Photo by Diane Bondareff. An interior view of the Columbia Business School on the Manhattanville campus. Photo by Diane Bondareff. A lecture hall in Henry R. Kravis Hall. Courtesy Columbia Business School. A social area in Henry R. Kravis Hall. Photo courtesy Columbia Business School. A study pod within the Columbia Business School. Photo by Diane Bondareff. Curious about how to get around the campus? Check out this handy campus map and to get more background on the Manhattanville campus, visit our recently revamped Manhattanville webpage. And make sure you check out the video below, which features the Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center in its new space in David Geffen Hall. Tags Manhattanville Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center Business News June 01, 2022 Explore Japanese Music with Community Scholar Marco Lienhard May 30, 2022 Construction Update: Weeks of 5/30/22 and 6/6/22 May 27, 2022 Meet 4 Local Freedom and Citizenship Students Graduating High School This Spring (Some Heading to Columbia!) May 24, 2022 20 Photos from the Joyous, Fun-Filled Return of Community Day on Columbia's Manhattanville Campus May 20, 2022 Construction Update: Weeks of 5/23/22 and 5/30/22 The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close