Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia | Neighbors Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Programs & Resources Local Events News Manhattanville Resource Directory Community Advisory Council Shop & Dine Local Vote! COVID-19 Vaccine Explore the Campus History Community Commitments Campus Construction and Opportunities Columbia | Neighbors You are here: Home Programs & Resources COVID-19 Vaccine Resources COVID-19 Vaccine Resources COVID-19 Vaccine Resources Helping our neighbors find services and the latest information on the COVID-19 vaccine. Get Help Scheduling an Appointment Homebound New Yorkers To schedule an in-home COVID vaccine appointment for homebound New York City residents, visit the Vax4NYC website, call 877-829-4692 or fill out this form. Upper Manhattan and South Bronx Seniors NMIC has a hotline in English and Spanish for seniors residing in Upper Manhattan and the South Bronx to schedule reserved appointments at the Washington Heights Armory. Vaccine Together NY The ColumbiaDoctors, Weill Cornell Medicine, and NewYork-Presbyterian vaccine hotline is available for your phone calls at 646-697-8222 (VACC). Schedule an Appointment Check Eligibility The COVID-19 vaccine is now available to all New York residents 5 and older. People who live outside of the state but work (paid or unpaid) or study in New York are also eligible to get vaccinated. People who are 5 to 17 years old are only eligible for the Pfizer vaccine. Schedule an Appointment You can schedule an appointment on the following sites: New York State Vaccination Sites Vaccine Together NY NYC Vaccine Finder Vaccines.gov You should receive an appointment for your second dose after your first dose is administered. Get Boosted The CDC recommends that everyone 12 years and older gets boosted to maintain a strong immunity against COVID-19. Use the same links in step two to schedule your booster. Get Informed These are the official government COVID-19 websites. CDC NYC NYC en Español New York State Find a Vaccine Use these resources to get a vaccine appointment. Vaccines.gov Provides nationwide search. New York State To schedule at a New York State mass vaccination site. NYC Vaccine Finder To find a vaccination site in NYC. Vaccine Together Columbia, NYP, and Cornell locations. The Office of Government & Community Affairs309 Low Library, 535 West 116th Street · New York, NY 10027 Phone (212) 854-5915 Internal Use Only Login to Access Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close