Skip to Main Content Brown University Brown University Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine Fellowship Program Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now Search Menu Site Navigation Home About Us Our Roots Our Pediatric Family Our New Chief of Pediatrics Neonatology & Pediatric Faculty Neonatology Fellows Leadership Groups Hasbro Pediatric Residents Pediatric Subspecialty Fellowships Neonatal Nurse Practitioners Photo Gallery Our Program Information for Prospective Fellowship Applicants Clinical Programs Research Program Departmental + Extramural Conferences Information for Incoming Fellows Our Campus + Our City Diversity Search Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine Fellowship Program Fellowship in Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine One of the nation's top training programs for experts in the field of neonatology and perinatal medicine. Fellowship in Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine One of the nation's top training programs for experts in the field of neonatology and perinatal medicine. A Message from the Program Director & Associate Program Director We warmly welcome you to our website and appreciate your interest in our Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine Fellowship Program at The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University! The fellowship is based at Women & Infants Hospital, on the same campus as Hasbro Children's Hospital and Rhode Island Hospital. Just a quick point of clarification: While all three facilities are on the same campus, Women & Infants is within the Care New England healthcare system, and Hasbro and Rhode Island Hospitals are within the Lifespan healthcare system. We take immense pride in having educated and guided our past fellows. We remain equally proud of our present fellows, and are always excited to see them grow from anxious new fellows to fellows that are confident, experienced, and exceedingly well trained. It is a joy to see them leave our program ready to provide excellent care to neonates and flourish as academic or clinical neonatologists. We hope you enjoy your journey through our site! Joseph M. Bliss, MD, PhD Professor of Pediatrics, The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University; Program Director, Fellowship in Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine; Staff Neonatologist, Women & Infants Hospital of Rhode Island Beatrice E. Lechner, MD Associate Professor of Pediatrics, The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University; Associate Program Director, Fellowship in Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine; Director, Perinatal Palliative Care Program; Staff Neonatologist, Women & Infants Hospital of Rhode Island Quick Links Neonatology & Pediatric Attending Physicians Get to know some of the foremost experts in their field of study. Visit Page Open details for Neonatology &amp; Pediatric Attending Physicians Neonatology Fellows Meet Our Fellows! Visit Page Open details for Neonatology Fellows Information for Prospective Fellowship Applicants Interested in our program? We have the information you need to help in your discernment. Visit Page Open details for Information for Prospective Fellowship Applicants Research Program Stalwart and passionate best defines our commitment to fostering neonatology fellows' research at Women & Infants Hospital. Research Program Brown University Providence RI 02912 401-863-1000 Quick Navigation Division of Biology and Medicine Program in Biology Affiliated Hospitals Footer Navigation Events Maps and Directions Contact Us Accessibility The campaign for building on distinction Give To Brown © Brown University Brown University For You Search Menu Mobile Site Navigation Mobile Site Navigation Home About Us Our Roots Our Pediatric Family Our New Chief of Pediatrics Neonatology & Pediatric Faculty Neonatology Fellows Leadership Groups Hasbro Pediatric Residents Pediatric Subspecialty Fellowships Neonatal Nurse Practitioners Photo Gallery Our Program Information for Prospective Fellowship Applicants Clinical Programs Research Program Departmental + Extramural Conferences Information for Incoming Fellows Our Campus + Our City Diversity Mobile Secondary Navigation Navigation Give Now This Site Only All of Brown.edu People Search Search people Advanced Search Search Close Search Fellowship in Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine Open details for Fellowship in Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine Bookmark this Page