Skip to main content Toggle navigation Net Price Help Login Net Price Calc Begin Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Review Results Please read *Please note these estimates reference the fall of 2021 and are subject to change* By clicking below, you acknowledge that these estimates do not represent any guarantee of your annual costs or actual financial assistance. They are only estimates based on cost of attendance and financial aid provided to students in 2021-2022. Cost of attendance and financial aid amounts change year to year. These estimates shall not be binding on the Secretary of Education, Clemson University, or the State of South Carolina. The estimates provided apply to full-time, first-time undergraduate students only. If you enroll part-time or are transferring to Clemson, these amounts may differ. In addition, all FAFSA applicants will be considered for all federal loan and work programs. First year first-time students may also be considered for university recruiting scholarships. Students who rank in the top 5% of their high school class and earn at least a 1350SAT/32ACT and meet all applicable deadlines will be considered for university recruiting scholarships. Typically, these scholarships begin at $5,000 per year for out-of-state students and $1,000 per year for in-state students. Students who decide not to submit SAT/ACT scores will still be fully considered, but we strongly suggest submitting scores for a more comprehensive review. Not all students receive financial aid. In 2021-2022, 87% of our full-time students enrolling for college for the first time received grant/scholarship aid. Students may also be eligible for student loans and work-study. In order for students to be eligible for federal and state need-based aid, they must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by our priority deadline of January 2nd, and submit any necessary follow-up documents. For more information on applying for Federal student aid, go to fafsa.ed.gov or Financial Aid Eligibility I Agree Please provide the requested information. Your responses will be used to calculate an estimated amount that students like you paid - after grant aid and scholarships but before student loans - to attend this institution in a given year. Basis for Calculation On what basis would you like to estimate your possible need-based financial aid? I know my Expected Family Contribution (EFC) I would like to estimate my EFC. I do not plan to file a FAFSA form or apply for financial aid. Merit Estimate Would you like an estimate for your possible merit-based financial aid? Please estimate merit-based aid. Do not provide an estimate for merit-based aid. Living Arrangement Where do you plan to live while attending Clemson? On-campus (in a residence hall, dormitory, or on-campus apartment) Living on my own or with a roommate off campus Living with my parents or other family members Residency I am a South Carolina resident and eligible for in-state tuition I am an out-of-state student Age How old are you? Start Over Previous Continue You indicated that you would like an estimate of your merit scholarship award. Please indicate your weighted rank, entrance scores and then click Continue. Class Rank What is your weighted rank in your graduating high school class? < 10% (Top 10%) 10% - 15% (Top 15%) 15% - 20% (Top 20%) 20% - 30% (Top 30%) > 30% (Bottom 70%) My school does not rank Please note that students applying to Clemson from secondary schools that do not calculate class rank will still be considered for merit scholarships. However, we cannot estimate merit financial aid here unless we have an estimate of your class rank. Entrance Exam Score What is your SAT (Critical Reading and Mathematics only) or ACT Composite score? SAT 1550-1600 or ACT 36 SAT 1510-1540 or ACT 35 SAT 1500 or ACT 34 SAT 1440-1490 or ACT 33 SAT 1430 or ACT 32 SAT 1400-1420 or ACT 31 SAT 1370-1390 or ACT 30 SAT 1320-1360 or ACT 29 SAT 1310 or ACT 28 SAT 1280-1300 or ACT 27 SAT 1240-1270 or ACT 26 SAT < 1230 or ACT 25 Start Over Previous Continue Based on the information you provided, you may be eligible for South Carolina Scholarships. Please provide the requested information and then click Continue. SC Scholarship Are you eligible for a South Carolina scholarship? (choose one) Eligible for Palmetto Fellows Eligible for LIFE Scholarship Eligible for HOPE Scholarship Not Eligible for South Carolina Scholarship We cannot give you a full estimate of your merit aid eligibility unless we know your eligibility for state scholarships. Please consult your high school guidance counselor or visit our Paying for College document. Start Over Previous Continue Based on the information you provided, you have filed a FAFSA form and have received the report that indicates your Expected Family Contribution (EFC). Please enter that value and click Continue. Expected Family Contribution Enter the EFC from your FAFSA report Provide this information and then click Continue. Marital Status Are you (the student) married? Answer "yes" if separated but not divorced. Yes No Children Do you (the student) have any dependent children? Yes No Start Over Previous Continue Number in Family How many people are in your family's household? Count yourself, your spouse (if applicable), and any children who are under the age of 24. Count yourself, your parent(s), and your parents' other children who are under the age of 24. One Two Three Four Five Six or more Number in College Of the number in your family above, how many will be in college next year? Count yourself and your siblings; do not count your parents. One child Two children Three or more children Household Income What is your household income? Include income from work, child support, and other sources; if you are married, include your spouse's income. Include income earned by yourself and your parent(s) Include income from work, child support, and other sources If your parent is single, separated, or divorced; include the income for the parent with whom you live If the parent with whom you live is remarried, include both your parent's income and their spouse's income Less than $30,000 Between $30,000 - $39,999 Between $40,000 - $49,999 Between $50,000 - $59,999 Between $60,000 - $69,999 Between $70,000 - $79,999 Between $80,000 - $89,999 Between $90,000 - $99,999 Above $99,999 Start Over Previous Continue Review the information you have provided, You can use the tabs above to return to Step 1 and edit this information, or if you are happy with the current selections, click Continue to receive your estimated net price. Basis for Need-based Aid Merit Aid Age Living arrangement Residency High School Class Rank Entrance Score Scholarship Enhancement Marital Status Dependent Children Number in Family Number in College Household Income Expected Family Contribution Start Over Previous Continue Based on the information you have provided, the following calculations represent the average net price of attendance that students similar to you paid in the given year: Academic Year: 2021-2022 Estimated total cost of attendance a. Estimated tuition & fees b. Estimated room and board c. Estimated books and supplies d. Estimated cost of laptop computer e. Estimated other expenses (Personal expenses, transportation, etc.) Estimated total SC scholarships Estimated Clemson merit/need-based grant aid Estimated need-based grant aid Estimated family contribution Estimated net price (Cost of attendance minus scholarships & grant aid) Current Cost of Attendance Information Please Note: These estimates do not represent a final determination, or actual award, of financial assistance or a final net price. They are only estimates based on cost of attendance and financial aid provided to students in 2021-2022. Cost of attendance and financial aid availability change year to year. Your need-based aid estimate is based on the needs analysis formula from 2021-2022, but is still an accurate estimate of what you can expect from Clemson for the upcoming year. These estimates shall not be binding on the Secretary of Education, Clemson University, or the State of South Carolina. The estimates above apply to full-time, first-time undergraduate students only. If you enroll for less than a full-time schedule, or are transferring to Clemson, these amounts may differ. In addition, all FAFSA applicants will be considered for all federal loan and work programs. Not all students receive financial aid. In 2021-2022, 87% of our full-time students enrolling for college for the first time received grant/scholarship aid. Students may also be eligible for student loans and work-study. In order for students to be eligible for federal and state need-based aid, they must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) by our priority deadline of March 1st, and submit any necessary follow-up documents promptly. For more information on applying for Federal student aid, go to fafsa.ed.gov or Financial Aid Eligibility . Start Over Copyright © 2022 Clemson University, Clemson, South Carolina (SC). All Rights Reserved. Need technical assistance? × Contact Technical Support Need technical support with this application? Please fill out the form below to send a message directly to the application development team. E-mail: Message: Close Send × Help: Last Updated: Close