Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu Home Our Community About Us Benefactors Leadership Stanford Neurosciences Building Faculty Trainees Staff News & Events News News Media Coverage Brains Behind the Institute Next-Generation Neuroscience Events Upcoming Events Neuroscience at Stanford Event Series Past Events Videos Newsletters Quarterly Newsletter Brain Broadcast newsletter archive Research Research Initiatives Knight Initiative for Brain Resilience Research Themes NeuroDiscovery NeuroEngineering NeuroHealth Programs Funded Projects Grants Training Community Shared Resources Neuroscience Community Labs Centers Mind Brain Computation and Technology Get Involved Join our mailing list Faculty Trainees (students and postdocs) Community Diversity, Inclusion, Belonging, Equity and Justice Donors Funding Opportunities Job Opportunities Undergrad Research Research Research Initiatives Knight Initiative for Brain Resilience Research Themes NeuroDiscovery NeuroEngineering NeuroHealth Programs Funded Projects Grants Training Community Shared Resources Neuroscience Community Labs Koret Human Neurosciences Community Lab Vincent V.C. Woo Sandbox Lab Behavioral and Functional Neuroscience Lab Gene Vector and Virus Core Neuroscience Microscopy Service Neuroscience Preclinical Imaging Lab Visualization Lab Centers Mind Brain Computation and Technology Neuroscience Community Laboratories The Wu Tsai Neuro Community Laboratories are collaborative hubs for neuroscience discovery, engineering, and translational health research. Our labs provide shared access to cutting-edge technologies and expertise to advance interdisciplinary collaboration within the Stanford neuroscience community. The community labs are directed by professional scientists with deep experience in their fields who can work with research teams of all experience levels to develop and implement new projects to deepen our understanding of the mind and brain. Scroll down to learn more about our labs. Koret Human Neurosciences Community Laboratory The Koret Human Neurosciences Community Laboratory serves as a Stanford-wide hub for collaborative human neuroscience research. The welcoming space provides access to technology and expertise to inform high-density electroencephalography (EEG) recording and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) studies in human subjects. Learn more Vincent V.C. Woo Sandbox Laboratory The Vincent V. C. Woo Sandbox Laboratory aims to enable collaborative projects and the development of novel equipment and engineering solutions for neuroscience experiments. The facility will be fully equipped with tissue culture, in vivo procedure space, electrophysiology (“ephys”) rigs, microscopy and open bench space for project and technology development. Learn more Behavioral and Functional Neuroscience Laboratory The Behavioral and Functional Neuroscience Laboratory is a state-of-the art facility designed to serve as a time-efficient and cost-effective service center for researchers in need of behavioral and neuropharmacological analyses in rodents. Learn more Neuroscience Gene Vector and Virus Core The Neuroscience Gene Vector and Virus Core centralizes the process of producing and distributing viral vectors and cDNA plasmids for use by the Wu Tsai Neuro community. Learn more Neuroscience Microscopy Service High-end light microscopy services, including confocal, light-sheet and multiphoton microscopes, are available in the Neurosciences Microscopy Service (NMS) community lab. Learn more Neuroscience Preclinical Imaging Laboratory Our mission is to provide state-of-the-art preclinical Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) technology and expertise to the Stanford community to accelerate neuroscience-focused scientific discovery. Learn more Visualization Laboratory The Visualization Laboratory provides a community space for the development of interdisciplinary augmented and virtual reality research projects. We also host a cutting-edge adaptive optics system to enable high-resolution imaging of the human retina. Learn more Our Team Tim Doyle, DPhil Assistant Director for Neuroscience Community Labs Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Maritza Vallejo Neuroscience Community Labs Accountant Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Contact Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Stanford Neurosciences Building 290 Jane Stanford Way, Rm E152 Stanford, CA 94305 (650) 723-3573 neuroscience@stanford.edu Campus Map Connect Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Join the Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Mailing List Giving to the Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Make a Gift Learn more about giving opportunities for the neurosciences at Stanford Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.