Skip to content FacebookTwitterYouTube About Us About Us Photo Albums CNS News Contact Us People Leadership & Staff Faculty Fellows Martha J. Farah, PhD Programs Public Talks Visiting Scholars Book Club Series The Neurolaw Society CNS 10th Anniversary Reunion Child Poverty and Brain Development Past Programs Boot Camp Law & Brain Fellowships in Teaching Neuroethics Education Graduate Certificate in Social, Cognitive, and Affective Neuroscience (SCAN) Undergraduate Fellows Neuroscience & Society Courses Preceptorials Resources Events Video Library Teaching Resources Career Advice Useful Links Support Us Search for: Welcome to the Center for Neuroscience & Society Welcome to the Center for Neuroscience & Society Preceptorials on Neuroscience & Society Welcome to the Center for Neuroscience & Society Welcome to the website of the Center for Neuroscience & Society. We are a group of faculty and students from departments spanning the Schools of Arts and Sciences, Medicine, Law, Wharton and Engineering and Applied Science at the University of Pennsylvania, whose work addresses the ethical, legal and social implications of neuroscience. CNS News International Neuroethics Society: Call for Posters & Abstracts! The International Neuroethics Society (INS) invites researchers and clinicians from around the world to submit abstracts for presentation at the 2022 [...] April 22nd – Wharton Neuroscience Student Society Summit The Wharton Neuroscience Initiative Student Society is hosting their first ever End-Of-The-Year Summit. Keynote Speaker, Dr. Joseph O'Doherty, Director of [...] Open Position: Post-doc Fellow in Neuroethics The Wexler Lab at the Department of Medical Ethics & Health Policy at the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania is [...] Students and trainees: Work with the Neuroethics Society! The International Neuroethics Society (INS) is seeking students, postdocs, and trainees with an interest in neuroethics to apply to serve [...] Call for Applications – Presidential Scholars in Society and Neuroscience, Columbia University The Presidential Scholars in Society and Neuroscience (PSSN) program at Columbia University invites applications for interdisciplinary postdoctoral positions to begin on [...] Call for Applications – Summer Seminars in Neuroscience and Philosophy Summer Seminars in Neuroscience and Philosophy (SSNAP) are now accepting applications! SSNAP 2022 will occur at Duke University from May [...] Event Categories Upcoming (all) Global Events Penn CNS Events Penn Events Links Home Contact About Support Us Join The Mailing List Email: (* required) First Name: Last Name: Stay Connected © Copyright 2021, University of Pennsylvania -- All Rights Reserved. FacebookTwitterYouTube