Skip to content Skip to navigation SUNetID Login SUNetID Login Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Search form Search Navigation menu Main menu Home Our Community About Us Benefactors Leadership Stanford Neurosciences Building Faculty Trainees Staff News & Events News News Media Coverage Brains Behind the Institute Next-Generation Neuroscience Events Upcoming Events Neuroscience at Stanford Event Series Past Events Videos Newsletters Quarterly Newsletter Brain Broadcast newsletter archive Research Research Initiatives Knight Initiative for Brain Resilience Research Themes NeuroDiscovery NeuroEngineering NeuroHealth Programs Funded Projects Grants Training Community Shared Resources Neuroscience Community Labs Centers Mind Brain Computation and Technology Get Involved Join our mailing list Faculty Trainees (students and postdocs) Community Diversity, Inclusion, Belonging, Equity and Justice Donors Funding Opportunities Job Opportunities Undergrad Research Our Community About Us Benefactors Leadership Stanford Neurosciences Building Faculty Trainees Postdoctoral Scholars Alumni Graduate Fellows Alumni NeURO Undergraduates Alumni Center for Mind, Brain, Computation and Technology Student Members NeuroTech Trainees Alumni Staff William Newsome William Newsome Professor Vincent V.C. Woo Director of the Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Harman Family Provostial Professor Professor of Neurobiology and, by courtesy, of Psychology Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator Lab Website View Stanford profile Bill Newsome is the Vincent V.C. Woo Director of the Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute, Harman Family Provostial Professor and is a Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator. He received a BS degree in Physics from Stetson University and a PhD in Biology from the California Institute of Technology. He served on the faculty of the Department of Neurobiology and Behavior at SUNY Stony Brook before moving to Stanford in 1988. Dr. Newsome is a leading investigator in the fields of visual and cognitive neuroscience. He co-chaired the NIH working group that planned the US national BRAIN initiative. Dr. Newsome has made fundamental contributions to our understanding of the neural mechanisms underlying visual perception and simple forms of decision-making. Among his many honors are the Rank Prize in Opto-electronics, the Distinguished Scientific Contribution Award of the American Psychological Association, Karl Spencer Lashley Award of the American Philosophical Society, the Champalimaud Vision Award, and most recently, the Pepose Award for the Study of Vision, Brandeis University. He has given numerous distinguished lectureships and was elected to membership in the National Academy of Sciences in 2000 and to the American Philosophical Society in 2011. His scientific publications include more than one hundred research articles in preeminent scientific journals. Funded Research Project: NeuroChoice: Optimizing Choice Contact Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Stanford Neurosciences Building 290 Jane Stanford Way, Rm E152 Stanford, CA 94305 (650) 723-3573 neuroscience@stanford.edu Campus Map Connect Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Join the Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Mailing List Giving to the Wu Tsai Neurosciences Institute Make a Gift Learn more about giving opportunities for the neurosciences at Stanford Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University, Stanford, California 94305.