Skip to main content Pfizer COVID-19 vaccine appointments are available to our patients. Sign up for Connect today to schedule your vaccination. Continue your routine care with us by scheduling an in-person appointment or Video Visit. Enter the terms you wish to search for. Select Search Option This Site All WCM Sites Directory Menu Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach I am interested in... Wayfinder menu Find a Physician News and Updates Ways to Give Neurology Explore this Website I am interested in... Wayfinder menu Find a Physician News and Updates Ways to Give Home About UsToggle About Us menu options Leadership Directory News and Updates Events Affiliated Institutions Speakers Bureau Videos Contact Us Ways to Give Patient Care EducationToggle Education menu options Medical School Neurology Curriculum ResidencyToggle Residency menu options Residency Education Leadership Our Residents Program Highlights Resident Research and Educator Track Resident Publications Where Are Our Residents Now? Rotation Sites Teaching Program Rotations Schedule Neurology Subspecialties New York City Housing and Stipends Apply to Residency Program Fellowship TrainingToggle Fellowship Training menu options Clinical Neurophysiology Fellowship Epilepsy Fellowship Neurocritical Care Fellowship Vascular Neurology Fellowship Neurooncology Fellowship Multiple Sclerosis Fellowship Grand Rounds Continuing Medical Education Educator Development Education Scholarship ResearchToggle Research menu options Clinical Trials Publications Women's Brain Initiative Brain and Nerve Stimulation Program Diversity and Community OutreachToggle Diversity and Community Outreach menu options Diversity Community Outreach Weill Cornell Medicine Care Discover Teach Home About Us Patient Care Education Research Diversity and Community Outreach The latest advances in medicine for a full range of neurological diseases and disorders Our Mission Contact Us #1 In the New York metro area for Neurology and Neurosurgery Health US News #3 In the nation for Neurology and Neurosurgery Health US News Featured in NY Magazine's Best Doctors NYMag.com Neurology Patient Care Our dedicated physicians and staff are committed to providing kind, personalized care to support patients and their families as they confront neurological conditions. Education Residency Our neurology residency program combines diverse and abundant clinical training with a comprehensive educational program to produce highly qualified neurologists. Within the program, we strive to develop our residents’ unique aptitudes, whether they lie in leadership, research, teaching, or public service. Fellowships Fellowship programs at the Department of Neurology at Weill Cornell Medicine offer advanced clinical training in the complex and evolving neurological disorders encountered in hospital settings today. Our graduates have gone on to successful careers in academia and private practice. Clinical Neurophysiology Fellowship Epilepsy Fellowship Multiple Sclerosis Fellowship Neurocritical Care Fellowship Neurooncology Fellowship Vascular Neurology Fellowship Research Clinical Trials Physicians at the Department of Neurology conduct clinical trials that explore ways to more effectively prevent, diagnose, and treat various neurological disorders as well as enhance our understanding of the field. Publications With publications in the world’s leading neurology journals, our physicians and researchers are at the forefront of advancing the field of neurology. News and Updates Brain Attack & Cerebrovascular Disease UPDATE 2021 June 16, 2021 The Brain Attack course is a yearly comprehensive review of the field of cerebrovascular disease. It covers epidemiology, diagnosis, acute management, secondary prevention, and rehabilitation . Study Finds That African-Americans at Greater Risk for a Second Stroke February 24, 2020 In a new study in JAMA Neurology, Dr. Hooman Kamel and colleagues found that the short-term risk of a second stroke following an initial minor stroke is about 60 percent higher among African... Dr. Neal Parikh Presents Research on Smoking Cessation in Stroke Survivors February 13, 2020 At the American Stroke Association’s International Stroke Conference in Los Angeles, Dr. Neal Parikh presented preliminary research into smoking rates among stroke survivors. Twitter Follow us on Twitter Tweets by WCMCNeurology Our Location Neurology Contact Us Twitter Facebook 525 E. 68th St. PO Box 117 New York, NY 10065 Phone: (212) 746-6575 About Us Leadership Directory News and Updates Events Affiliated Institutions Speakers Bureau Videos Contact Us Ways to Give Patient Care Education Medical School Neurology Curriculum Residency Fellowship Training Grand Rounds Continuing Medical Education Educator Development Education Scholarship Research Clinical Trials Publications Women's Brain Initiative Brain and Nerve Stimulation Program Diversity and Community Outreach Diversity Community Outreach Care. Discover. Teach. With a legacy of putting patients first, Weill Cornell Medicine is committed to providing exemplary and individualized clinical care, making groundbreaking biomedical discoveries, and educating generations of exceptional doctors and scientists. Weill Cornell Medicine NewYork - Presbyterian © Weill Cornell Medicine. Privacy & Legal Careers Giving Directory Web Accessibility Assistance