Skip to main content The University of Kansas MENU link to menu page THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS School of Pharmacy Graduate Study in Neurosciences myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay Close Search this unit Start search Submit Search Main navigation Home About Select to follow link Contact Academics Select to follow link Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Select to follow link Program Overview Coursework Doctoral Candidacy and Dissertation Defense Apply - Ph.D. Admissions Select to follow link Apply - Ph.D. Financial Support People Select to follow link Faculty Graduate Students Alumni Partners Select to follow link KU Medical Center Higuchi Biosciences Center Life Span Studies Institute Stowers Institute Research Seminars School of Pharmacy Links KU School of Pharmacy Medicinal Chemistry Pharmacology & Toxicology Pharmaceutical Chemistry Pharmacy Practice myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay THE UNIVERSITY of KANSAS University of Kansas logo School of Pharmacy Graduate Study in Neurosciences Menu link to menu page Search this unit Start search Submit Search Graduate Study in Neurosciences Graduate Study in Neurosciences at KU allows students to take advantage of the many research and training opportunities available at two campuses of a major research university. About KU Graduate Study in Neurosciences Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) in Neuroscience The multidisciplinary Graduate Program in Neurosciences at the University of Kansas offers students broadly-based training in neuroscience and advanced training in their specialized area. Program Overview Coursework Doctoral Candidacy and Dissertation Defense Apply for Ph.D. More About the KU Neuroscience Graduate Program Research The KU Neuroscience Graduate Program is a collaborative effort of faculty members from across numerous disciplines. Learn about research Faculty Learn about the diverse group of faculty members involved in the KU Neuroscience Graduate Program. Learn about our faculty KU School of Pharmacy 2010 Becker Drive Lawrence, Kansas 66047 neuroscience@ku.edu 785-864-3893 School of Pharmacy Medicinal Chemistry Pharmacology & Toxicology Pharmaceutical Chemistry Pharmacy Practice Visit KU Apply Give News Events Careers Alumni Nondiscrimination statement Accessibility| Website support| CMS login © 2022 The University of Kansas The University of Kansas is a public institution governed by the Kansas Board of Regents.