Skip to main content Mobile Main Navigation People Centers and Initiatives Hock E. Tan and K. Lisa Yang Center for Autism Research The Edward R. and Anne G. Lefler Center for the Study of Neurodegenerative Disorders Phytocannabinoid Research Initiative Harvard Brain Initiative Harvard Mahoney Neuroscience Institute On The Brain Lecture Series Fellowship Opportunities Council Members David Mahoney Prize ARCHIVE: On The Brain Newsletter Harvard/MIT Joint Research Grants Program Bertarelli Program in Translational Neuroscience and Neuroengineering Upcoming Neurobiology Funding Opportunities Community Building Resources Events COVID-19 response at HMS Mobile Utility Navigation History MyHMS Menu Utility Navigation History MyHMS Search Main navigation People Centers and Initiatives Hock E. Tan and K. Lisa Yang Center for Autism Research The Edward R. and Anne G. Lefler Center for the Study of Neurodegenerative Disorders Phytocannabinoid Research Initiative Harvard Brain Initiative Harvard Mahoney Neuroscience Institute Harvard/MIT Joint Research Grants Program Bertarelli Program in Translational Neuroscience and Neuroengineering Upcoming Neurobiology Funding Opportunities Community Building Departmental Committees on Diversity and Inclusion Gender Equity and Sexual Harassment Neurobiology Postdoc Club Theme J Underrepresented Scholars in Neuroscience Women in Neuroscience Resources for Parents Resources RT-PCR Neuro Imaging Facility Connectomics Core NEI Vision Core Research Instrumention Core Facility Events Neurobiology Seminar Series Lefler Symposium Past Events INCEPT: Interdisciplinary Neuroscience Colloquia of Extramural Postdoc Talks The Matthew Pecot Memorial Lecture in Cellular and Molecular Neuroscience COVID-19 response at HMS Self-Administered COVID-19 Testing About HMNI Harvard Mahoney Neuroscience Institute HMNI was founded by the late David Mahoney and his wife, Hildegarde, in collaboration with Daniel Tosteson, former dean of Harvard Medical School. Since its founding in 1990—the inaugural year of what former President George H.W. Bush designated as the Decade of the Brain—The Harvard Mahoney Neuroscience Institute has helped advance neuroscience at Harvard Medical School by promoting public awareness of the importance of brain research and by helping to fund research at the School’s Department of Neurobiology. The Institute aims to: Educate the public on the latest scientific discoveries about the brain, and how these discoveries are relevant in their daily lives, through the On the Brain Lecture Series Support fellowships to young scientists pursuing neuroscience research at Harvard Medical School Award the David Mahoney Prize every two years to an individual who has increased awareness about brain science and/or disorders of the nervous system Send comments or questions to neurobiology@hms.harvard.edu. Centers and Initiatives Harvard Mahoney Neuroscience Institute On The Brain Lecture Series Fellowship Opportunities Council Members David Mahoney Prize ARCHIVE: On The Brain Newsletter Facebook twitter linkedin instagram youtube 220 Longwood Avenue Goldenson Building, Room 420 Boston, MA 02115 (617) 432-1772 Footer Accessibility Privacy Policy © 2022 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College