Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Columbia University Medical Center DEPARTMENT OF NEUROSCIENCE Search Faculty & Research Alphabetically By Research Area Emeritus Faculty Faculty Recruitment Education PhD and MD/PhD Programs Postdoctoral Fellowships Undergraduate Medical/Dental Outreach News & Events News Events & Seminars Neurotheory Seminars Kavli Institute Seminars Resources Conference Rooms Department Information Information Technology Instrumentation Core Centers & Institutes Grossman Center Kavli Institute Motor Neuron Center Taub Institute Theoretical Neuroscience Translational Neuroscience Zuckerman Institute Contact Us Support the Department "Understanding how the 100 billion nerve cells in our brain function to generate sensation, movement, memory, and thought is one of the most fascinating and challenging problems in science." - Steven Siegelbaum, PhD, Chair 2016 Spencer Award recipients Winrich Freiwald, PhD, Rockefeller Doris Tsao, PhD, Caltech Larry Abbott, PhD Learning how little we know about the brain The New York Times Franck Polleux, PhD awarded 2015 Prix Roger de Spoelberch for his research on cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying the development, maintenance, and evolution of cortical connectivity Mind in Motion: To make sense of how the brain controls movement, neuroscientist Mark Churchland had to toss out existing theories and listen to his data Columbia Neuroscientists named AAAS Fellows: Steven Siegelbaum, PhD Michael Shadlen, MD, PhD The Department of Neuroscience Neuroscience research at Columbia has a rich history dating back to the founding of the Neurological Institute in Manhattan in 1909. The Institute moved to Washington Heights as an affiliate of the Columbia University Medical Center in 1929. The Department was founded in 2007 replacing the more broadly based Center for Neurobiology and Behavior. The Department is chaired by Steven A. Siegelbaum, Ph.D., Professor of Neuroscience and Pharmacology, and includes 35 faculty members. Among them are two Nobel Prize winners Eric Kandel (2000) and Richard Axel (2004); five Howard Hughes Medical Institute investigators; eight members of the National Academy of Sciences; and 13 members of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies. The textbook Principles of Neural Science, which counts numerous Columbia faculty as co-authors, is the most widely used neuroscience text in the world. The Department oversees the interdisciplinary Doctoral Program in Neurobiology and Behavior, the Center for Theoretical Neuroscience, the Mahoney-Keck Center for Brain & Behavior, the Kavli Institute for Brain Science, and the Grossman Center for the Statistics of the Mind. In 2018, the faculty of the Department of Neuroscience will join other investigators in fulfilling Columbia's vision of a cross-disciplinary axis for research on the science of mind in the Jerome L. Greene Science Center as part of the Zuckerman Mind Brain and Behavior Institute. "...it goes beyond a search for solutions to devastating illnesses. The new science of mind attempts to penetrate the mystery of consciousness, including the ultimate mystery: how each person's brain creates the consciousness of a unique self and the sense of free will." -Eric Kandel Columbia Universityin the city of new york Contact Us © 2022 Columbia University