Skip to content Center for Enervating NeuroImmune Disease Menu About News Research Team Donate Cornell University in Ithaca, NY Weill Cornell Medicine in Manhattan, NY The Cambridge Dictionary defines "Enervating" as: adjective causing you to feel weak and lacking in energy About the Cornell ENID Center Foremost among cryptic neuroimmune diseases is one variously known as Myalgic Encephalomyelitis or Chronic Fatigue Syndrome or Systemic Exertion Intolerance Disease. The Center’s mission is to promote research to identify its cause(s), biomarkers, and pathophysiology in order to lead to prevention and effective treatments. The Cornell Center for Enervating NeuroImmune Disease encompasses a variety of projects on ME/CFS supported by federal grants, foundations, and private donors. The Center spans Cornell’s Ithaca campus, Weill Cornell Medicine, Ithaca College, the Boyce Thompson Institute, the Workwell Foundation, EVMED Research, and the medical practices of Dr. Susan Levine, Dr. John Chia, and Dr. Geoffrey Moore. Input into the Center’s efforts is provided by patient advocates. Cornell University has been awarded one of the three NIH grants to support an ME/CFS Collaborative Research Center. This NIH grant supports three research projects: Oxidative Stress in the Brain and Neuroinflammation, Extracellular Vesicles in Regulation of Inflammation and Metabolism, and Gene Dysregulation in the Immune System. Individuals can volunteer to participate as research subjects at three different locations across the US. Data analysis is facilitated by groups at Weill Cornell Medicine and Cornell University, and by the NIH ME/CFS Data Management and Coordination Center at the Research Triangle Institute. The Cornell NIH ME/CFS Center is part of the ME/CFS Research Network. Learn more about its activities here: https://mecfs.rti.org/. Center Director Maureen Hanson, Ph.D. Liberty Hyde Bailey Professor Molecular Biology & Genetics Cornell University @DrMaureenHanson Center Manager Carl Franconi, Jr., M.S. ENID Center Cornell University 1-607-255-7244 @CornellMECFS 1-607-255-7244 Copyright © 2022 Cornell Center for Enervating NeuroImmune Disease Scroll to top