Skip to main content UW Department of Neurological Surgery Search form Search Secondary Menu About Donate Contacts Locations Referrals Log in Patients & Family Providers Search Clinical Faculty Practicing Neurosurgeons Healthcare Specialists Locations and Services Hospitals and Clinics Clinics and Care Centers Pediatric Neurosurgery What We Treat Conditions Treatments Diagnostic Services Patient Information Research Research Faculty Research Labs The Stroke and Applied NeuroScience Center Grants and Funding Articles & Publications Education Faculty Search Residency Program Program Overview Applying Selection Process Stipends & Benefits Research Opportunities Conferences and Rounds Clinical Facilities Residency FAQ Current Residents Medical Student CLerkship Living in Seattle Contact Information Videos Fellowship Programs Cerebrovascular & Skull Base Surgery Spine Surgery Neurotrauma Current Fellows Neuroendovascular Surgery Pediatric Neurosurgery Medical Student Program Elective Clerkships Goals & Objectives Required Clerkships Summer Student Program Alumni List How to apply Alumni Feedback-Testimonials Conferences FAQ National Institute of Health (NIH) OR & Clinical Observations Other Program Activities Program History Program Labs Program Leadership & Administration Program PIs and Mentors Program Vision Student Presentations Thank You to Our Donors! Weekly Faculty Lecture Series Conferences & Rounds Conference Descriptions Grand Rounds Schedule Upcoming Resident Courses WISH Surgical Skills Lab Innovation Faculty Search Affiliated Companies Vicis Applied Dexterity Patents News/Resources In the News Newsletters Videos Patients & Families Providers Locations and Services What We Treat Patient Information Research Research Faculty Articles & Publications Research Labs Grants and Funding Education Faculty Residency Program Fellowship Programs Medical Student Program Summer Student Program Conferences & Rounds Wish Surgical Skills Lab Presentations Innovation Faculty Affiliated Companies Patents News / Resources Videos Newsletters In The News Front Page Banner View UW Medicine Announces Launch of Brain Aneurysm Center UW Launches Pilot Program for Brain Aneurysm Center The program brings together a highly skilled team of providers to improve access to the Center. Read more... UW Department of Neurological Surgery records of innovation,… UW Department of Neurological Surgery records of innovation, patents, and licenses over last 5 years For more... The Votes are in – Our Docs are Tops! The Votes are in – Our Docs are Tops! Congratulations to members of the department who were voted The Top Doctors in Seattle for 2021 by Seattle. For more... A week in the life of a Resident UW Department of Neurological Surgery and A week in the life of a Resident For an overview of Seattle, the University of Washington, UW Medicine and the Department of Neurological… Read more... Front Page Action Items Patients & Family Research Education action items mobile Patients & Family Research Education Incoming Resident Adriel Barrios-Anderson to serve as Orator at Brown Medical School Graduation Submitted by neurosur on Thu, 05/26/2022 - 13:03 Adriel Barrios-Anderson, who served as a student orator upon earning his bachelor’s degree from Brown in 2017, hopes to inspire newly minted M.D.s to feel confident about embracing the uncertainty of the future. Read more about Incoming Resident Adriel Barrios-Anderson to serve as Orator at Brown Medical School Graduation Subscribe to front page icons News All News Incoming Resident Adriel Barrios-Anderson to serve as Orator at Brown Medical School Graduation Adriel Barrios-Anderson, who served as a student orator upon earning his bachelor’s degree from Brown in 2017, hopes to inspire newly minted M.D.s to feel confident about embracing the Click here to learn more In The News Featured Video Digging deeper into traumatic brain injuries According to the CDC, traumatic brain injuries affect millions of people in the US each year and, in 2019, there were approximately 61,000 TBI-related deaths. Dr. Randall Chesnut, Director of Click here to learn more View the archive of all videos Visit our Youtube Channel twitter feed Tweets by UWNeurosurgery Secondary Menu About Donate Contacts Locations Referrals Log in Search Search Social Share Maps & Directions Maps and Directions Harborview Medical Center UW Medical Center Seattle Childrens VA Hospital © 2019 University of Washington. All Rights Reserved. © 2022 University of Washington. All Rights Reserved. Footer Links Patients & Families Education Research Innovation News/Resources More footer link Referrals Policies Terms Donate Contact Us Social Share © University of Washington 2017 Legal and Privacy Notices Policies