Class of 2020 Commencement events to be held Sept. 17-19 Syracuse University will host a Commencement ceremony—delayed due to the COVID-19 pandemic—and other celebratory events for the Class of 2020 during the weekend of Sept. 17–19. Commencement will be held Sept. 19 at 10 a.m. at the Stadium. This University-wide ceremony, where Syracuse University Chancellor and President Kent Syverud will formally confer degrees, is for all undergraduate, graduate and doctoral candidates. Doors open at 8 a.m. Following Commencement, all 2020 Newhouse graduates and their families are invited to join Dean Mark J. Lodato and the faculty and staff for a celebratory reception. The event will include a dean’s welcome, recognition of participating graduates and an opportunity to reconnect with faculty. A precise time and location will be announced soon; stay tuned for details. For more information about Commencement activities for the Class of 2020, see the event listing. Newhouse student, recent graduates earn honors at Hearst Journalism Awards National Championships A record number of Newhouse School students and recent graduates competed in the Hearst Journalism Awards National Championships this past week in San Francisco with two earning Top 3 honors and one earning an additional special award. From left: John Perik, Christopher Cicchiello, Moriah Humiston and Abigal Weiss Abigail Weiss ’22 was recognized with a $1,000 award for Best Reporting Technique. She also placed 3rd in the Writing division and earned a $5,000 scholarship for multiple articles she wrote during the competition with four other student journalists. Weiss secured her place in the five-day national contest by earning 1st Place in the Profile/Personality monthly competition for her Daily Orange feature about President Biden’s first wife, Neilia. Moriah Humiston ’22 placed 3rd in the Television division, earning a $5,000 scholarship for reporting and producing broadcast stories during the five-day contest. Earlier this year, Humiston was top winner in the Television Features category for video stories on COVID-19 testing at Syracuse University and a bocce community in Rome, New York. Joining them as national finalists were Christopher Cicchiello ’22, who was the 1st Place winner in Hearst’s Sports Writing contest, and broadcast and digital journalism sophomore John Perik, who competed in the Television division. Each were awarded $1,500 scholarships. This year’s four finalists marked the most Newhouse School students ever participating in the annual championships for what are considered “the Pulitzers of college journalism.” For the year, 10 undergraduate students and projects had Top 20 finishes, giving the Newhouse School a 5th place finish among the 103 accredited university communications programs nationally. Newhouse placed 3rd in both the Writing and Audio & Television divisions and was awarded $2,000 prizes for each. Also, Newhouse placed 7th in the Multimedia division. Alumnus Larry Kramer ’72 (right) and Newhouse dean Mark Lodato (third from left) join Hearst competitors Christopher Cicchiello, Moriah Humiston, Abigail Weiss and John Perik at the competition in San Francisco. Newhouse School alumna makes waves at premier indie podcasting company Carly Migliori Carly Migliori ’07 knew she wanted to go to Newhouse since she was 15. She got in, majored in magazine and graduated into the Great Recession. Despite that, Migliori got her dream job at Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, but the magazine folded soon after. Later, she fell in love with podcasting and pivoted to her first audio job at Panoply. Then, the company radically shifted away from podcasting creation to podcast ads. As with every other challenge or unlucky break that has come her way, Migliori turned it into an opportunity. “At that point, Jacob Weisberg and Malcolm Gladwell, who I had worked with at Panoply, had already co-founded Pushkin Industries, and I basically emailed Jacob every month for six months asking him if he had a job for me yet because I knew that’s where I wanted to go,” Migliori says. “Shortly after, I came over to Pushkin and I’ve been here for three years. I’ve overseen the production of all the shows and just worn every hat under the sun.” Migliori has worked all across the media world, doing graphic design, managing traditional print magazines, developing apps and now working at one of the premier indie podcasting companies. While her responsibilities have evolved as the company has expanded, Migliori served as director and then vice president of operations, managing and running every podcast the company made. In March 2022, she became vice president of partnerships. She’s weathered the turbulent world of media and come out so successful by constantly trying to learn more. “I’m always trying to think about where the industry is heading, learning those skills and throwing my hat in the ring to be a part of the project,” Migliori says. “Even if that meant doing something on top of my normal day-to-day just so when something came up, I could raise my hand and feel confident with my skills.” While working with advertisers to make branded content is a new challenge, she had already honed the skills needed to manage the creation of podcasts. “It was eerily similar to what I had been doing in magazine for years,” Migliori says. “You’ve got X amount of of time that you need to fit this content into and X number of ads. You’re making it all work and it’s very similar to putting together a magazine, so in my operational brain, I was like, OK this is very easy to understand.” Migliori has always been exceptional at the operational aspects of journalism. While she was at Newhouse she was managing editor of Jerk, a student magazine. Professor Melissa Chessher was the faculty adviser for the publication and says Migliori was an “all-star staffer.” “The entire Jerk staff had a great deal of trust and respect for her, and she could turn and convince people to do things that other peers could not,” Chessher says. “It is a testament to her that they delivered all three issues each semester. She just knew how to get the best out of what was already a talented collection of her peers.” Chessher says Migliori developed her managerial skills through many semesters of navigating the inner publication politics, on top of making sure that columns, articles, graphics and photos made it to each issue of Jerk. “Usually, in the curriculum, we lean into writing or editing—basically creating content—but she was just masterful at managing, which I think is remarkable,” Chessher says. “When she was at Newhouse there were very well-worn paths that are reinforced by the curriculum and by the industry, in who wins prizes. Usually there’s not a prize for managing all that content, so to me she was always driven by a curiosity about where things were headed and what was new.” Migliori treasures the writing skills that Newhouse gave her and says they have been invaluable in her career. She says her classes also prepared her for what work in the media industry was actually like. “The classes that we had in the magazine program were a really good model for how work is: We were writing, reporting and editing every single day,” Migliori says. “The way our classes were structured and how we were thrown into learning the skills firsthand really helped me.” Beyond preparing her for the work, her professors made sure she understood the way the media industry evolves, Migliori says. She notes that her professors were tough graders and realistic about what it takes to make it in the media world, but she loved it. “They just made us understand what was possible,” Migliori says. “I think that is the huge differentiator between Newhouse and other communications schools. My professors worked in magazines and they knew what it was like so they could talk to us about their personal experience and tell us how to best navigate things like getting an internship.” Migliori was close with her professors and admitted that one of her motivators to do well was that she didn’t want to disappoint them. Chessher says the feeling was mutual and that watching Migliori leverage her talents in new and interesting ways has been a delight. “She’s kind of classic poster child of the Newhouse curiosity and professional acumen and ascension,” Chessher says. “What I really respect and remember is she was always calm no matter what. She was never dejected or frustrated—she made the most of every opportunity and always had an amazing attitude.” Outside of her close relationships with her professors, Migliori says her network of peers and friends were essential in finding success, especially in those tenuous five years after graduation. Chessher describes the Newhouse network as a “super premium Linkedin.” “There’s this ecosystem of alumni that exists because of they all share Newhouse, but there’s also the supercharged turbo alumni group based on all the people who spent a million late night hours working together creating something: a newspaper, a magazine, a website, a movie, a documentary, etc.,” Chessher says. “That is an important piece of her story.” Chessher says that as an alumna Migliori exemplified the generosity of the Newhouse Network, from arranging speakers during the Glavin Benchmark Trip to New York to speaking with students who reached out to her. Chessher is both incredibly proud of Migliori’s success and excited about what that success says about the future of the media industry. “It delights me that we are building this amazing network of people devoted to telling stories with audio. I was overjoyed [that she was at Pushkin],” Chessher says. “Her career is a nice road map for people to keep in mind that it’s not always straight upward, sometimes you have to take a side step, and sometimes you may even have to take a back step. But it’s Carly’s attitude, work ethic, curiosity and abilities that carried her and continue to carry her.” Migliori is excited to tackle the challenges her new role brings. She wants to turn this into an opportunity to learn more about the business side of journalism and build on the skills she has. She knows it is a new challenge, but like all the other challenges she faced during her career, she is facing it head on. “I think it is a core part of my DNA. It is like a fighting spirit in a lot of ways and it is always like remembering that I have all the skills. I’ve done all of this groundwork and have the skills that I learned when I was at Newhouse,”Migliori says. “It is all about trusting yourself.” Elizabeth Kauma is a senior in the magazine program at the Newhouse School. Creative advertising students raked in an astounding 195 awards in one year, setting a new school record Creative advertising students at the Newhouse School set the program record by winning an impressive 195 awards in one year. “What most impressed me about the awards the Newhouse creative advertising students won was not the amount but the range,” says Taras Wayner, chief creative officer of Wunderman Thompson in New York and an alumnus of the College of Visual and Performing Arts. “The design and clarity of the ideas covered the complete spectrum of modern media solutions that will attract the attention of every agency in the world.” “I’m so proud of all of our creative advertising students, who can use these opportunities to show what they have learned, and more importantly, what they can take to industry. This is a wonderful way to spotlight their creative advertising work as well as the level of education you get here at the Newhouse School,” says Mark J. Lodato, dean of the Newhouse School. “The Newhouse advertising department is uniquely positioned to ensure that our students succeed at the highest levels,” Lodato says. “There is a wonderful mix of faculty with deep, professional experience and some strong scholars who bring an additional level of research and innovation. Together that makes for a very powerful curriculum and support system for our students to be able to perform so well at these national and even international competitions and in the industry.” “It’s an amazing achievement that creative students have won 195 awards within a year,” says James Tsao, chair of the advertising department. “Only one word could summarize the remarkable achievement—pride!” All award-winning work was created in the Portfolio I, II and III courses taught by professors Mel White and Kevin O’Neill as part of the creative advertising track. Students in those courses are training as art directors and copywriters. At the One Show Young Ones Brief competition, the Burger King campaign created by art director/copywriter team Rachel Hayashi and Jessica Mastorides, “Have it the Real Way” (video), earned one of the most prestigious advertising awards: Newhouse’s first Silver Pencil. The humorous campaign flaunted real Burger King food in its imperfect glory through posters featuring floppy cheese and smushed buns and clear sandwich packaging to show the always real, never fake food. The campaign even capitalized on Burger King’s rivalry with McDonald’s. Using AirDrop, McDonald’s customers were prompted to scan their burger in the Burger King app. Then, Google Lens would search for McDonald’s ad and calculate the percent difference between the actual burger and the way too perfect-looking one in the ad. The percentage became a whopping Burger King discount for the customer. “Have it the Real Way” campaign by Rachel Hayashi and Jessica Mastorides for Burger King Newhouse earned two additional One Show Young Ones Brief awards. Art director/copywriter team Brian Chau and Alye Chaisson received a merit award for their Spotify campaign, “Drive into Your Daily Drive” (video), which evolved Spotify’s “Daily Drive” commuting playlists for road trips in response to the sharp drop in commuting during the Covid-19 pandemic. Next to a state’s “Welcome to” sign, digital billboards display a song selected by a famous musician born in the state and airdrops the celebrity’s curated “Daily Drive” playlist to your phone for a one-of-a-kind road trip experience. Art director Sam Luo’s WhatsApp “On Hold” (video) earned a shortlist award for its innovative integration of mental health and technology through cell-blocking “On Hold” towers in high stress areas, automatic away messages and mental health scans through facial recognition. The campaign also included streetwear printed with barcodes that, when scanned, would take users to the WhatsApp On Hold app for mental health support. The One Show Young Ones ADC competition earned Newhouse the coveted Silver Cube, another program first. Art director/copywriter team Sarah Sek and Jessica Miranda created the award-winning LEGO campaign “Infinicoaster”(video). The interactive campaign combined digital and physical play with a LEGO set that allows kids to build and experience the roller coaster of their dreams. Hi-tech bricks outfitted with ultrasonic sensors allow kids to ride their coaster creations on the LEGO phone app using virtual reality. Newhouse also received three merit awards at One Show Young Ones ADC. Art director/copywriter team Cerinn Park and Marta Lala won for P&G “uTINTsil” (video), a set of color-changing utensils for kids designed to detect different allergens in food for a safer lunchtime. Kelsi Ryan and Chloe Greenwald, an art director/copywriter team, were awarded for Apple x Glaad “Deadnaming” (video), an Apple software update that adds preferred pronouns to contacts and uses AI to autocorrect digital deadnaming and misgendering. Luo’s “McDelivery” earned the third merit award. The record-setting continued at the Clio Awards, where Newhouse ranked among the top five most-awarded schools worldwide, winning a record-breaking five Clio awards. Luo earned four of the five awards including a Bronze Clio for “McDelivery.” In Luo’s print campaign, the famous McDonald’s golden arches swoop through late-night cityscapes to land in apartment windows, showing off McDonald’s delivery service. Luo also won Clio shortlists for Hermes “The Silk Definition,” capturing the luxury of the brand’s signature scarves through sweeping landscapes crafted by silk, and Jeep “Go Wild,” mimicking adventurous landscapes through extreme close-ups of zebra stripes and giraffe spots for Jeeps to explore. Luo and copywriter Olivia Gormley secured another Clio shortlist with Amazon + Connect4Climate “Amazon Greenscreen” (video), an integrated campaign featuring an Amazon search filter that displays eco-friendly products; an in-app camera scanner to find more sustainable alternatives to everyday products; and a scoring system to track personal progress towards a greener lifestyle. Sam Luo’s “Go Wild” campaign for Jeep Maia Baptista and Joe Cutuli, art director / copywriter team, won a Clio Shotlist with their Coca-Cola “Cashcan” (video). The idea was created during a 10-minute brainstorming exercise in the Portfolio III course. The duo’s concept focused on helping the Coca-Cola company incentivize its consumers to recycle its products by creating high-tech CashCan recycling bins conveniently placed on city blocks. These bins would scan bottles’ barcodes and, using Apple Pay, transfer money into the user’s bank account. Newhouse students took home three gold National ADDY awards. Luo earned two of the three gold awards. Luo and Gormley won for the “A Step Behind” campaign for Girls Who Code which emphasized the need for STEM education among young girls. In the campaign, various race tracks are shown with one lane’s start line set behind the rest. This racing position, paired with taglines like, “Behind before she even started,” conveys the disadvantages girls face when they aren’t given opportunities to explore STEM skills at a young age. Luo’s second National ADDY gold was for “Go in Deep,” a print ad campaign for Oral-B Glide Floss featuring a scuba diver, mountain climber and parachuter traveling between two massive teeth to show just how deep the floss can go. Art director Allison Scherger won a National ADDY gold award for her “Decibullz Earplugs” campaign. Scherger’s ads feature people wielding common noisemakers, like trumpets and chainsaws, scaled to miniature size with the tagline, “Minimize big sounds.” Allison Scherger’s campaign for Decibullz At the Golden Award of Montreux, Luo won one of only five Gold Awards given worldwide to students and was the only student award winner from the U.S. He won for his“McDelivery” campaign. At the Communication Arts Advertising awards, Newhouse students won four of the 18 awards worldwide. Newhouse also earned three shortlists. Luo and Gormley won two of the awards for their “A Step Behind” and “Greenscreen” campaigns. Luo also received an award for “Go Deep.” Park and Lala earned the fourth award for P&G “uTINTsil.” The four award-winning campaigns were also featured in the Communication Arts Advertising Annual November/December 2020 issue. Luo received one out of only 11 Communication Arts Student Showcase awards given globally. Three of his campaigns were featured in the Communication Arts March/April 2021 issue. Newhouse was the fifth most-awarded school out of advertising schools worldwide at the New York Festivals Advertising Awards. Students earned 26 awards, consisting of eight finalists and 18 shortlists, shattering the previous Newhouse record of nine awards. Seven Newhouse campaigns earned awards at the Lürzers International Archive Students Contest. Six winners were published in the international publication and one additional campaign was pre-selected. At the Graphis New Talent awards, Newhouse won the most awards out of all schools worldwide, dominating the competition. Newhouse earned 74 student awards for their print and outdoor and video advertising with three platinum awards, 19 gold, 27 silver and 25 honorable mentions. Newhouse creative advertising students took home 13 awards at Creativity International, one of the first female owned and operated advertising award shows in the industry. Students won one Platinum, three Gold, five Silver and four Bronze awards. Ads of the World, part of the Clios network, selected and published 20 Newhouse campaigns. The Newhouse School won the most awards overall in the Association for Education in Journalism and Mass Communication (AEJMC) Best of Design, Advertising Division. Each school was allowed five entries, and the five Newhouse campaigns won six awards total: Judge’s Choice and Second Place for “Girls Who Code”; Third Place for “Have It the Real Way”; Best in Experiential for “CashCan”; Best in Print for “McDelivery”; and Best in Interactive and Social Media for “Protect Asian Lives PAL”(video) for Apple by Mastorides and Hayashi. Complete list of 195 creative advertising awards won by Newhouse students in the 2020-2021 school year: ADDYs RAF – 16 Awards (pages 109-140): 2 Best In Show Scholarship Winners, 8 Gold, 6 Silver ADDYs District 2 – 4 Awards: 1 Best in Show, 1 Gold, 2 Silver ADDYs National – 3 Awards: 3 Gold Ads of the World – 20 Chosen & Published (https://www.adsoftheworld.com/campaigns?search=Newhouse&button=) AEJMC Best of Design, Advertising Division (pages 137-163) – 1 Judge’s Choice, 1 Second Place, 1 Third Place, 1 Best in Experiential, 1 Best in Print, 1 Best in Interactive & Social Media Clios – 5 Awards: 1 Bronze, 4 Shortlist Communication Arts Advertising Annual – 7 Awards: 4 Awarded & shown in Annual, 3 Shortlisted Communication Arts Student Showcase – 1 Award (out of 11 given worldwide) Creativity International Awards – 13 Awards: 1 Platinum, 3 Gold, 5 Silver, 4 Bronze Golden Award of Montreux: 1 Award: 1 Gold (https://www.goldenawardmontreux.com/winners-2021/) (Click on “Talent Award”) Graphis New Talent – 74 Awards: 3 Platinum, 19 Gold, 27 Silver, 25 Honorable Mention Print & Outdoor Film/Video Lürzers International Archive Students Contest – 7 Awards: 6 Published & 1 Pre-Selected New York Festivals Advertising Awards – 26 Awards: 8 Finalists, 18 Shortlists One Show Young Ones ADC Competition – 4 Awards: 1 Silver Cube, 3 Merit One Show Young Ones Brief Competition – 3 Awards: 1 Silver Pencil, 1 Merit, 1 Shortlist Katherine Kiessling is a graduate student in the arts journalism and communications program at the Newhouse School. The 19th News to be honored with Lorraine Branham IDEA Award at Mirror Awards ceremony June 8 The 19th News will be honored with the Lorraine Branham IDEA Award from Syracuse University’s S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications June 8. The award, presented as part of the 16th annual Mirror Awards ceremony, will be accepted by editor-at-large Errin Haines. Sunny Hostin, three-time Emmy Award-winning co-host of ABC’s “The View” and New York Times bestselling author, will present the award. The 19th News is an independent, nonprofit newsroom reporting on gender, politics and policy with the goal of empowering readers—particularly women and LGBTQ+ people from underserved communities—with the information, resources and community they need to be equal participants in democracy. The name is a nod to the 19th Amendment, which gave women the right to vote, but the logo includes an asterisk to symbolize that “suffrage remains a work in progress” in the U.S. The 19th News was founded in 2020 by former Texas Tribune staffers Emily Ramshaw, who is CEO, and Amanda Zamora, who is publisher. It’s supported by a mix of membership, philanthropy and corporate underwriting. The IDEA Award recognizes a media organization that has worked to promote inclusion, diversity, equity and accessibility over the course of the previous year. Specifically, the award acknowledges the hiring and development of leadership talent who create change, both to the organizations they oversee and the content they produce. The award was established in honor of late Newhouse dean Lorraine Branham, the first Black woman to serve as dean of the school, who died in 2019. About the Mirror Awards The Mirror Awards are the most important awards for honoring excellence in media industry reporting. They were established by the Newhouse School in 2006 to honor the reporters, editors and teams of writers who hold a mirror to their own industry for the public’s benefit. Finalists in the 2022 competition were announced in April. The 2022 Mirror Awards ceremony will be held Wednesday, June 8, at French Institute Alliance Française (FIAF), New York City. The event will begin with a cocktail reception at 5:30 p.m. followed by the presentation of the awards at 6:45 p.m. Newhouse dean Mark J. Lodato will preside over the ceremony, and Newhouse alumna Contessa Brewer ’96, a correspondent with CNBC, will serve as master of ceremonies. In addition to the IDEA Award, the Newhouse School will present the Fred Dressler Leadership Award to New York Times executive editor Dean Baquet. Six juried journalism awards—winners of the 2022 competition—will also be presented. Register now Roy Gutterman named to SPJ Legal Defense Fund Committee Gutterman Roy Gutterman, associate professor and director of the Newhouse School’s Tully Center for Free Speech, has been appointed to the Society of Professional Journalists’ Legal Defense Fund Committee. The eight-member committee oversees the fund, which is a unique SPJ resource that can be tapped by journalists for legal or financial assistance. Committee members work throughout the year to raise money to support the fund, and they also advocate on legal issues. Additionally, Gutterman will serve as a liaison between the Legal Defense Fund Committee and SPJ’s Freedom of Information Committee, on which he has served since 2015. View the committee roster Rockell Brown Burton joins the Newhouse School as Associate Dean of Inclusivity, Diversity, Equity and Accessibility Rockell Brown Burton, an experienced academic leader and accomplished researcher with a passion for cultivating impactful, mutually beneficial relationships, has been named Associate Dean of Inclusivity, Diversity, Equity and Accessibility at the Newhouse School. After a national search, she was chosen from a pool of more than 50 applicants. Rockell Brown Burton “Dr. Brown Burton brings a strong record of leadership and a passion for inclusivity, diversity and equity to the Newhouse School. Students will find her personality infectious, while her experience helps us chart a course for success in this important space,” says Newhouse dean Mark J. Lodato. Brown Burton is a two-time HBCU graduate with nearly 20 years of experience in higher education as both a faculty member and administrator. A self-described “serial collaborator,” she says she is committed to establishing pathways and pipelines for marginalized and underrepresented groups in the academy and beyond. “I am beyond excited and thrilled to have the opportunity to join the world renowned Newhouse School of Public Communications,” Brown Burton says. “I am ecstatic to be joining the Newhouse faculty and staff—and the entire Syracuse University family—to move the needle forward and ensure there is inclusion, inclusivity, connection and community at Syracuse.” Brown Burton joins Newhouse from Texas Southern University (TSU), where she has served as interim dean of the School of Communication for three years. Under her leadership, the school formed several professional partnerships, including a program established in partnership with ABC News that provided students with the opportunity to cover the Democratic debate at Texas Southern University in 2019. Other partnerships include HBCU Game Day, AT&T Regional Sports Net, the Monterrey Jazz Festival and Houston Methodist Hospital TV studios, where Burton developed internships for students from historically underrepresented and marginalized groups. As interim dean, she also established the first School of Communication Advisory Board and oversaw the launch of a student multimedia streaming operation. “Our loss is your gain,” says Brown Burton’s colleague Arthur Murray, director of student-run multimedia station KTSU2 at TSU. “She is a personable person with the students, and while her talents will be missed, we know she will go on to do great things at your institution. She’s been a great asset here, has led this team over several things, including COVID. She is just phenomenal.” Brown Burton also has held positions as associate professor of radio, television and film, interim chair of the Department of Speech Communication and director of graduate studies, where she led the charge to overhaul the curriculum and create a more welcoming and inclusive environment for students of color. Brown Burton is the co-author of “Race and news: A critical perspective” (2011) and several book chapters and journal articles. She holds a Ph.D. in communication from Wayne State University, a master’s degree in human communication studies from Howard University and a bachelor’s degree in mass communication from Xavier University. Brown Burton was an AEJMC Institute for Diverse Leadership in Journalism and Communication Fellow for 2019-20 and was a nominee for the Orlando L. Taylor Distinguished Scholarship Award in Africana Communication. She was named Teacher of the Year and Stellar Communicator by the School of Communication in 2009. “Rockell Brown Burton stood out to the committee for three notable reasons: Her experience as an academic leader, which many noted positioned her well for success, her history of student-focused initiatives and her record of scholarship that demonstrates she understands our disciplines well,” says Melissa Chessher, who has served in the IDEA role in an interim capacity and chaired the search committee. “She also received strong feedback on her teaching presentation and demonstrated a commanding demeanor and an approachable, calming presence. Given our ongoing work to create more partnerships with HBCUs, we also love that she possesses considerable ties to many of those institutions.” Chessher also notes Brown Burton’s ability to get things done, her understanding of how universities work and her ability to engage and enlist support from a range of constituents. Says Syracuse University Trustee and Newhouse Advisory Board member Howard Woolley ’80, president of Howard Woolley Group LLC: “We are looking forward to Rockell’s partnership with Dean Lodato in his efforts to diversify our faculty, student enrollment and the industry at large.” Other members of the search committee were faculty and staff members Anne Osborne, Hua Jiang, Wes Whiteside, Ulf Osterle and Jeffery Mangram, and students Herve Magaribi Lehani, Aminata Sylla and Michael Spenser. “The Newhouse School is committed to a diverse enrollment, faculty, staff and curriculum to prepare the next generation of communications professionals,” says Charles W. Stevens ’77, principal at Global Writers Group and a member of the Newhouse Advisory Board. “Creating this new position is just another demonstration of the school’s commitment to diversity. Leaders in journalism and other communications fields can count on Newhouse to produce graduates who reflect and share those values.” Three new partnerships benefit Newhouse students from historically underrepresented and marginalized groups Thanks to the commitment of Newhouse School alumni and partners, three new industry partnerships have been established to benefit students from historically underrepresented and marginalized groups. “We are committed to increasing the diversity of our student body and, ultimately, of the workforce. These new opportunities don’t just benefit students, they also benefit our partner companies with an influx of young talent and new perspectives on the communications industry of today,” says Newhouse dean Mark J. Lodato. Diversity Fellow at DKC Melissa Chessher, Newhouse’s interim associate dean of diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility, and public relations professor of practice Brad Horn worked with alumnus Dave Donovan ’92 to set up a Diversity Fellowship at New York City-based public relations agency DKC. Donovan is executive director of DKC / DKC Sports. “Giving back, mentoring and positively impacting future leaders is central to our mission at DKC and quite significant to me personally as a proud Newhouse alum,” Donovan says. “We look forward to collaborating with Syracuse University and its talented faculty and students to maximize this unique fellowship program.” The annual paid summer fellowship is open to graduate or undergraduate students from diverse and underrepresented backgrounds. Students spend the summer working at the company’s New York City headquarters, where they experience the agency’s dynamic, cross-sector practice areas and are exposed to external client work that jives with their own areas of interest and career aspirations. Students also create content such as press releases and media resource materials. “We’re thrilled to further strengthen our relationship with DKC and create this incredible, sustained opportunity,” Chessher says. “We are committed to building out new career pathways and creating these real-world, world-class experiences for our students.” Michael Ras Tafari Spencer, a graduate student in public relations, is the inaugural fellow. “I can’t wait to start my diversity fellowship at DKC because I believe the program is setting me up to embark on a career,” Spencer says. “I want to gain experience and develop my professional insight, but most of all, I want to get connected with the people who have fought to open the doors for people like me.” Diversity in Media Internship at Fairchild Media Group Facilitated by Tara Donaldson G’12, executive editor of WWD, a new Diversity in Media Internship program at Fairchild Media Group offers three eight-week, paid internships for Newhouse students from diverse and underrepresented backgrounds. “The opportunity to make space for more people of color in media is really an honor for me—and, even more importantly, voices in media should reflect global diversity, so this just brings us one step closer to where we need to be,” says Donaldson, who is head of diversity, equity and inclusion for Fairchild Media Group. “And to do this all with Newhouse, which provided me with so many of the tools to get me where I am today, just adds to the significance of this moment.” Students are placed at three Fairchild publications: WWD, Footwear News and Sourcing Journal. The program also offers mentorship opportunities, career development workshops, networking opportunities and a chance to learn the ins-and-outs of covering the full end-to-end fashion industry. At the culmination of the internship, the three students collectively present a program project to leaders across Fairchild Media Group and the greater Penske Media Corp. In doing so, the students are able to demonstrate their understanding of the nuances across fashion and the supply chain and convey their acquired skills to mentors and potential hiring managers. Elijah Brown, a junior in broadcast and digital journalism, Ayana Herndon, a senior in magazine, and Paola Gonzalez Torres, a graduate student in magazine, news and online journalism, are the inaugural interns. Carol Cone ON PURPOSE Diversity Fellowship Kelly Barnett, director of Newhouse’s Career Development Center, worked with Carol Cone, CEO of consultancy Carol Cone ON PURPOSE, to create a virtual paid internship for diverse and underrepresented groups. “As more students and young professionals seek roles in the field of purpose, we wanted to bring more diverse individuals into this critical career path,” says Carol Cone, the company’s founder and CEO. “For purpose, ESG [Environmental, Social and Governance] and sustainability initiatives to be truly authentic and reflective of the world we live in, the professionals developing such strategies must come from diverse backgrounds. We are delighted to partner with Newhouse.” The summer fellow will work as a junior team member on key accounts for the agency, which serves organizations and brands whose mission is social impact beyond profit. Social impact initiatives for clients may be in the fields of plastics recycling, mentoring for youth, affordable housing, regenerative agriculture or overall purpose positioning. The fellow will also perform issue landscape research, contribute to portions of presentations and research for the company’s podcast, “Purpose 360.” Ezozhon Ismailova, a graduate student in public diplomacy and global communications, is the inaugural fellow. Typographic Design students win 30 awards in international competition When junior Lauren Brennan opened Adobe Illustrator to work on a project designing stamps for the Typographic Design class taught by Claudia Strong, she barely knew the software. Despite that, for the first time since the beginning of the class, she felt she had the creative skills to complete the assignment. As the only design minor in the class, Brennan experienced “imposter syndrome” at first. She had only taken the Introduction to Graphic Design class, and that was remote. When she started the Typographic Design class, she wasn’t sure how to approach the design process. Midway through the class, however, she was confident enough in her design skills to know that even if she didn’t fully understand the software, she could design something great. And she did. Her stamp series, “Fashion Forward,” which highlighted the fashion contributions of Lupita Nyongo, Michelle Obama, Naomi Campbell and Diana Ross, won gold in the Graphis New Talent Annual 2022 competition. Lauren Brennan won Gold in the Graphis New Talent Annual 2022 competition for her stamp series, “Fashion Forward.” “The whole class and especially this project pushed me to do many things that, honestly, I didn’t think I was capable of with the skillset that I was going in with,” she says “But it’s definitely rewarding now to see that the hard work pays off.” Brennan’s gold was one of 30 awards won by students in Strong’s Typographic Design class, including two golds, 10 silvers and 18 honorable mentions. It’s a particularly impressive achievement because the competition is international and run by one of the world’s most prestigious publishers in design, advertising, photography and annuals. Students won for a variety of class projects, from brochures to typeface design. Brennan says the class was pivotal in her understanding of design. While the sheer amount of projects seemed daunting at first, she says they each challenged her in a new way and built upon each other to give her a better understanding of what the design process looks like as a whole. Strong chose to assign each project with specific goals in mind, like challenging students to work on a small scale in the stamp project or understand the intricacies of typefaces after designing their own. She says the class reflects the goals of the visual communications curriculum at the Newhouse School. “Rather than forcing students into a pre-determined mold, we encourage all of our students to lean into their interests and instincts and strengths while coursing through the curriculum,” Strong says. “Our goal is to develop curious, adaptable thinkers who harness their individual vision to produce unique professional-level work.” Sophomore Angelo Garufi, the other gold-winning student in the class, says that without these high expectations, he probably would not have been able to produce that quality of work. At the end of the class, when he revisited his first assignment to revise it for the final portfolio, he could see how much he had improved as a designer. Angelo Garufi won Gold in the Graphis New Talent Annual 2022 competition for his stamp series, “Smallest U.S. Capitals.” “It was a rigorous class. I learned a lot and I enjoyed it,” Garufi says. “We were held to a high standard, so we made high-quality work.” Brennan agrees that the pressure to produce professional-caliber work was motivating, particularly because she knew Strong believed she could produce work at that level. “It’s nice to have someone pushing you because that means they know that you are capable of what they are asking you to do,” Brennan says. “I think just having professors around you that are constantly encouraging you to do things or giving you advice [is] reassuring, that they trust that you have the capability.” For Strong, submitting students’ work to the Graphis competition is all about showing students how capable they really are. “I want these young design students to know that good work gets noticed, that hard work pays off, that they are talented, and that their future is at hand,” Strong says. “Placing at any level is a tremendous confidence boost and comes just in time to confirm their decision to become designers and propel them into the rest of their career here at Newhouse and beyond.” Elizabeth Kauma is a senior in the magazine program at the Newhouse School. Funding expands for Newhouse professors’ work on technology to combat fake news Two professors from Syracuse University’s S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications who are working on the development of technology to detect manipulated media and combat the spread of fake news are supported by a subcontract that now tops $1.1 million, thanks to a recent expansion. Jason Davis, research professor and co-director of the Real Chemistry Emerging Insights Lab, and Regina Luttrell, associate dean for research and creative activity, will continue to work on refining a theoretical framework for the creation and testing of AI algorithms that can identify manipulated media. In addition, they will expand the scope of their research to include new modalities such as image, video and audio manipulations. They will collaborate with researchers from private industry and academia. “While the challenges associated with fake news and misinformation may not be new, the speed, scale and global impact created by digital media channels certainly is,” Davis says. “This research effort underscores Newhouse’s continuing commitment to addressing some of today’s most challenging problems and contributing to solutions with global impact. It is our intention that this research will help develop solutions that can detect and combat the effects of disinformation across a rapidly evolving digital landscape.” The subcontract is part of the Semantic Forensics program, funded by an $11.9 million Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency contract with PAR Government Systems Corp. The program seeks to create a system for automatic detection, attribution and characterization of falsified media assets. Davis and Luttrell will continue to grow a team of doctoral, masters and undergraduate student researchers, based in the Real Chemistry Emerging Insights Labs, to assist with the research. Undocumented Idalia Quinteros Idalia Quinteros is a junior advertising major from Miami. She transferred to the Newhouse School after completing two years at a community college. She is a reporter on CitrusTV’s Spanish-language news program, “Noticias.” Like many Newhouse students, she wasn’t sure what she wanted to study in communications at first, but after a couple of classes, she felt her chosen major click for her. “The thing I was worried about advertising was that I don’t consider myself a creative person,” Quinteros says, “but then I discovered, there’s this base to the creative, which is a strategic and account planning. When I started using the programs to do research on target audiences, that’s where I started seeing myself more.” She says she loves how hands-on the professors are, and how they crack jokes and do exercises in class to illustrate concepts. “I’m like, ‘Oh my goodness, this is what an advertising class is like, this is so fun!” Quinteros says. “I’m so down for it.” Quinteros is like many Newhouse students in her enthusiasm and her hopes for the future, but she’s different from most Newhouse students in one fundamental way. She’s undocumented. “For half of my childhood, I lived in El Salvador,” she says. “I was three when my dad came to the U.S., and then my mom left a year later. I stayed with my grandparents from [the age of] four to eight years old, and then later I reunited with [my parents] here.” Quinteros arrived in Miami in 2008, just months shy of the cutoff for Deferred Action for Childhood Arrival (DACA) status. “I’m a Dreamer in the sense that I’m undocumented,” Quinteros says, “but not in the sense that I have DACA [benefits].” For instance, Quinteros says, students with DACA can apply for a driver’s license. They can get social security cards, so they can work. They can apply for a credit card. But even with those benefits, students with DACA can’t get federal aid, and they can’t travel outside of the country. “It’s a few benefits,” Quinteros says, “but you have a status.” For Quinteros, navigating an education without even those few benefits was challenging. “I don’t think any college or university really rejects students based on status,” Quinteros says, “but they will say, ‘We can’t give you any money.’” Even in-state tuition can be inaccessible for undocumented students, despite having lived in these states for as long as they can remember. Quinteros was lucky; there is a law in Florida that granted her in-state tuition for community college, and she was also awarded a scholarship. Community college, however, was only for two years; if Quinteros wanted to get a full bachelor’s degree, she was going to have to transfer to a four-year school. “I applied to the University of Miami, which is crazy expensive,” she says. “When I got the rejection email, they blatantly told me, ‘We see that you’re not a citizen and we can’t give you any aid, so we’re not going to accept you.’ That was like the first time I had gotten a rejection like that.” A friend who had gone to Syracuse and received financial aid recommended that Quinteros apply. “She told me Syracuse was a good school and that they helped her out financially,” Quinteros says. “Then I also found out about the schools here, which were really good, like Newhouse.” Quinteros applied, was accepted and was offered financial aid, so she packed her bags and came to Syracuse. Huey Hsaio, associate director of multicultural affairs, says that Syracuse University is empathetic toward students like Quinteros. “We understand that DACA/undocumented students and students with ‘mixed-status families’ might feel daunted by the challenges of navigating higher education. However, we are committed to supporting their success at the University,” Hsaio says. But even with the support, Quinteros says that pursuing a college education is not easy. Despite having lived in the U.S. for most of her life, she has no access to federal student aid packages, she can’t get a job to pay her bills and she can’t participate in the paid internships that give her professional experience in her field. These struggles are a big part of the reason she wants to talk about her undocumented status, even though she understands there are risks involved. “The biggest risk is my whole future… being deported,” Quinteros says. “I take the risk because if I don’t speak about it, nothing in my future is going to change.” Quinteros is undaunted by these risks, however, because she believes in the power of communications. “[I want to] bring more awareness,” she says. [I want to] hopefully make things better for someone, at least one person. When I tell someone and then they asked me questions, it makes me realize that I need to keep doing this so that more people can keep asking questions and more people can care about it.” Even with the challenges she faces being undocumented, Quinteros is grateful for the opportunities she’s had, and dreams about one day having a job in the United States that will sponsor her work visa. But, like many of her fellow Newhouse students, she’s got a few dreams about what she wants to do once she’s able to work. “I have two dream jobs,” she says. “One is working for a sports team, maybe a women’s soccer team. [I would also love to go into] communications for nonprofits, maybe trying to do something for the undocumented community, since I’ve already set kind of my foot in there.”