Skip to main content Toggle navigation UNM A-Z myUNM Directory The University of New Mexico UNM A-Z myUNM Directory Help StudentInfo FastInfo Office of Admissions Become a Lobo We are looking forward to you joining the pack! You are going to be a part of a world-class university with boundless opportunities to build your future. To become a Lobo there are a few steps to take such as signing up for New Student Orientation and understanding your financial aid award. Below are resources to help you prepare to attend UNM. Things to Keep in Mind What’s next? If you’ve been admitted to UNM there are six steps to complete to join the pack: Access your myUNM student account Complete your FAFSA Sign up for New Student Orientation Register for Housing Send your official high school transcript and official transcripts from colleges/universities in which you received dual credit to UNM Office of Admissions. An official copy can be sent to apply@unm.edu Upload your vaccination information or submit an exemption Download the Lobo Checklist Important DatesFeb 2-May 2 | Early Bird Registration for UNM Housing May 1 | Accept UNM scholarships by May 1 in your  myUNM account. May 6 | Early Bird Roommate Match for UNM Housing June 14 | Early Bird Roommate Match for UNM Housing Aug 18-21 | Residence Hall Check-In Lobo Library Visit the Lobo Library to view informational how-to videos about all the things you need to know as an admitted student. Visit the Lobo Library to learn more about: Financial Aid and Scholarships Housing Dining New Student Orientation You'll be prompted to create an account to view the Lobo Library videos.View Lobo Library Videos Now!   Videos About Next Steps   #FoundMyPack #UNM26 Big decisions should be celebrated! Share your exciting news and connect with future Lobos just like you!         Get your questions answered about next steps. Housing Financial Aid UNM Food New Student Orientation Visit Campus Kyle Stepp BA '16 | National Cause Partnership Manager Albuquerque Business First recognized Kyle as one of the best and brightest young professionals as part of their 40 Under Forty Awards. He has built his career from what he learned through UNM’s Innovation Academy. He uses these skills now to build relationships with national corporate partners, like Chevron and GameStop—to raise lifesaving funds for 170 local Children’s Miracle Network Hospitals.   Antonio Vigil MA ’09, BAA ’06 | Architect, Project Manager In high school Antonio was interested in art, drawing and math. UNM’s architecture program was the perfect fit for his interests and was the foundation for his creative problem-solving process. In his early career at Mullen Heller Architecture, he was on the project team to design the White Rock Visitor Center. It was an extra special project for him because it was for his hometown. He loves the work he does and continues to build and design spaces for his community at FBT Architects. Lena Kassicieh BA '11 | Communications & Outreach Manager UNM was the starting point and foundation of Lena’s international career and travels. She currently works in Dubai at The Africa Institute, an academic institution that aims to educate a new generation of academics in Africana studies. She has also developed her creative practice as a multidisciplinary artist, and has had her work featured in Vogue Arabia, Dubai Design Week and Architectural Digest.   Office of Admissions Contacts Mailing Address: PO Box 4895 Albuquerque, NM 87196-4895 Phone:505.277.8900 Physical Location: Student Support and Service Center 1155 University Blvd, SE Albuquerque, NM 87131 General information & questions: unmlobos@unm.edu Send Transcripts & Records: apply@unm.edu Academics Academic Calendars Academic Advising Class Schedule Colleges & Schools Course Catalog Degrees & Certificates Graduate Studies Campus Life Arts & Entertainment Athletics Campus Housing Diversity Recreational Services Student Activities Student Union Resources Bookstore Campus Map Campus Safety Computing Libraries Parents & Families Residency Information Programs Aim To Achieve Early Start Program Gateway Programs National Student Exchange New Student Orientation Study Abroad APPLY Now Visit UNM Request Info © The University of New Mexico Albuquerque, NM 87131, (505) 277-0111 New Mexico's Flagship University UNM on Facebook UNM on Instagram UNM on Twitter UNM on YouTube more at social.unm.edu Accessibility Legal Contact UNM Consumer Information New Mexico Higher Education Dashboard