Mass & Prayer About Get Involved New Newman Center Contact Give Back Mass & Confession Times Prayer & Adoration Liturgical Volunteers Music Ministry Spiritual Accompaniment Back What We Do Our Team Student Leaders Our History Event Calendar Newman Gear Back Small Groups / Bible Studies Newman Dinners Service Retreats Intercultural Ministry Become Catholic (RCIA) ESTEEM for Seniors Back Redevelopment Naming Gifts 125th Anniversary Space Reservation Mass & Prayer Mass & Confession Times Prayer & Adoration Liturgical Volunteers Music Ministry Spiritual Accompaniment About What We Do Our Team Student Leaders Our History Event Calendar Newman Gear Get Involved Small Groups / Bible Studies Newman Dinners Service Retreats Intercultural Ministry Become Catholic (RCIA) ESTEEM for Seniors New Newman Center Redevelopment Naming Gifts 125th Anniversary Space Reservation ContactGive THE OLDEST NEWMAN CENTER IN THE COUNTRY Scroll THE FIRST NEWMAN CENTER IN THE COUNTRY EST.1893 Registration FRESHMEN Incoming students Graduate Students Alumni Upcoming Events. Our Calendar Sign Up For Our Newsletter Small Groups We are called to be in communion with one another and joining a small group is a great way to grow in faith with friends and get involved! Read More → Newman Nights Some of the greatest friendships are made over a delicious meal! Join our weekly Newman Nights to enjoy good company and of course, our legendary chicken parm. Read More → Retreats Take a break from the stress of papers, exams, and college life and restore your peace at our yearly retreats! Our retreats leave students feeling joyful, revived, and ready to take on the rest of the semester. Read More → Spiritual Accompaniment Support, encouragement, and guidance can make a world of difference as we navigate living our lives. Our spiritual accompaniment program is designed to give you resources as you grow in your faith. Read More → Service Looking to serve? Service is a great way to invest in your faith life while giving back to your community. We have volunteer opportunities for liturgical, music, hospital, social, and homeless outreach! Read More → Intercultural Ministry Our intercultural ministry is thriving! From small groups to Masses and more, there are many ways to get involved. Read More → Today’s students. Tomorrow’s leaders. Are you a new student? SIGN UP HERE! Home Top Home Vision + Campaigns Home Impact Home Annual Report Home Footer CTA St. Agatha - St. James Catholic Church 111 S 38th St, Philadelphia lfallon@saintsaj.org Hours Mon 9am - 9pm Tue 9am - 9pm Wed 9am - 9pm Thu 9am - 9pm Fri 9am - 9pm Sun 9am - 9pm Our TeamGet InvolvedMass & PrayerReserve Space Naming Gifts banner Copy of stuff