Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: PBS NewsHour “Elon Musk bought Twitter. What’s next?” Tuesday, April 26, 2022, By Lily Datz Share communications lawElon Musksocial mediaTwitter Roy Gutterman, associate professor of magazine, news and digital journalism in the Newhouse School and director of the Tully Center for Free Speech, was quoted in the PBS NewsHour story “Elon Musk bought Twitter. What’s next?” The piece featured commentary from three experts including Gutterman, who studies communications law. He explained that he is unsure of what Elon Musk’s purchase of Twitter may mean for the platform, given that “this much power concentrated in a single person is always something to be concerned about.” However, Gutterman also noted that Musk’s purchase could signal a change for Twitter. “If we believe everything Elon Musk has said about his commitment to free speech, then you know, we should see wide open and robust debate and exchange of viewpoints on Twitter in the future,” Gutterman said. Read Full Article Faculty Experts Roy Gutterman Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Facebook @SyracuseUNews Youtube Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.