Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program In Animal Study, Implant Churns Out CAR-T Cells to Combat Cancer facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Designing Healthy and Resilient Societies May 31, 2022 New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Anticipating stress related to elections can affect your emotional well-being before anything has even happened. Recent Stories Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology A School of Fishes May 10, 2022 Researchers Conduct First Assessment of Metabolites in African Savanna Elephants The work advances our understanding of the relationship between metabolism and health in these endangered animals. May 9, 2022 Quantifying Cognitive Decline in Dogs Could Help Humans With Alzheimer’s Disease Diagnosing canine cognitive decline in a clinically safe and relevant way could lead to working with dogs as a model for Alzheimer’s disease in humans. May 4, 2022 Stem Cell-Derived Model Offers Insights on Gene Activity and Addiction The work also offers a blueprint for related research moving forward. May 2, 2022 Study Highlights Stresses – and ‘Silver Linings’ – of Pandemic for Moms with Limited Resources The work highlights the need for additional resources to support low-income families. Apr 22, 2022 Research Through an Equitable Lens Recognizing the importance of a fair and just society, researchers at NC State prioritize equity in their diverse fields. Apr 21, 2022 How Parks and Green Spaces Can Improve Your Health NC State associate professors Lincoln Larson and Aaron Hipp discuss the role of parks and green spaces in promoting physical and mental well-being. Apr 19, 2022 Four Helpful Tips to Reduce Food Waste Up to 40% of the food grown, prepared or sold in the United States is wasted. Apr 7, 2022 Healthy Kids: No Batteries Required In a journey of discovery spanning six decades, Robin Moore has explored the connections between human development and the natural world. His ideas may hold the key to raising healthy children in the digital age. Apr 7, 2022 Companies That Are Aggressive on Taxes Fall Short at Managing Their Workforce Aggressive companies were more likely to have insufficient staff to operate efficiently. Apr 4, 2022 Helping People with Opioid Addiction Get the Treatment They Need The project provides a wealth of resources aimed at addressing opioid use disorder in the U.S. Apr 4, 2022 In Food Safety Study, 25% of Participants Contaminated Salad with Raw Chicken The study highlights the importance of hand-washing and cleaning and sanitizing the kitchen. Apr 1, 2022 Researchers Roll Out Data on COVID Vaccine Distribution and Waste The researchers hope others can use the data to improve vaccination efforts in the future. Apr 1, 2022 New Polymer Membrane Tech Improves Efficiency of CO2 Capture New tech is more efficient at removing carbon dioxide from mixed gases, such as power plant emissions. Mar 24, 2022 In Animal Study, Implant Churns Out CAR-T Cells to Combat Cancer In an animal study, the implants were faster and more effective than conventional CAR-T cell cancer treatment. Posts navigation 1 2 … 16 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.