Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Honors Rain Down on Project facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: landscape architecture May 16, 2022 ‘I Feel So Blessed’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Parker and Noah As part of our graduation video series, these elementary school friends reflect on how NC State brought them closer together. Apr 22, 2022 Research Through an Equitable Lens Recognizing the importance of a fair and just society, researchers at NC State prioritize equity in their diverse fields. Aug 25, 2020 Climate Change and the Challenge of Community Relocation Climate change will profoundly affect where people live. It already is. Mar 19, 2020 In Memoriam: Landscape Architect Dick Bell Landscape architect Richard C. Bell designed some of North Carolina’s iconic spaces, but none meant more to him than his alma mater’s University Plaza, more commonly known as the Brickyard. Feb 19, 2020 The Urgency and Necessity for Greenways: 5 Questions With Charles A. Flink There’s a lot of talk about the need for greenways but besides being attractive, nice areas to take a jog, how do these spaces actually benefit communities? Do they outweigh the financial cost, physical labor and political will to build them? Charles A. Flink is a professor of practice in landscape architecture at NC State University… Dec 11, 2018 Storm Warnings In the wake of increasingly frequent and violent Atlantic hurricanes, NC State faculty and students race to help rural, flood-prone communities in eastern North Carolina recover and rebuild, physically and economically. And they call on public officials to recognize the growing threat to the region. Apr 20, 2017 Exploratory Grants Generate Solutions Faculty and staff can consider applying for a DELTA exploratory grant. Deadline for all DELTA grant applications is May 5. Oct 15, 2015 Solar Tree Sprouts at Hunt Library Charge your laptop, phone or other electronics on the 16-foot solar tree at the Hunt Library on Centennial Campus. The newly installed solar technology is a gift from the Park Scholars Class of 2015. Sep 6, 2012 New Rain Garden Set for Unveiling The Lee Hall Rain Garden will be unveiled at a ribbon-cutting ceremony on Sept. 13 from 2 p.m. to 3 p.m. The garden showcases the work of four students from the College of Design. Apr 25, 2012 Green Project Grows Students put the finishing touches on Phase II of an ambitious project to convert the area between two residence halls into a green oasis. See the results. Mar 26, 2012 Spring Showstoppers Nothing says spring like vibrant redbuds and snowy dogwood. Our friends at the Natural Learning Initiative share fun facts about these beloved plants and the NC State scientists working to make them even better. Mar 20, 2012 Design Faculty Connect Kids with Nature Two design faculty members have won a team award for helping children connect with the natural world. Sep 15, 2011 Students build landscape legacy NC State landscape architecture students have left their mark on the university campus. Aug 10, 2011 Students Create Green Oasis Students show off their green thumbs during a summer design/build studio to renovate the space between two residence halls. May 9, 2011 Honors Rain Down on Project A summer design-build project in the College of Design that transformed the area behind Syme Residence Hall into an eco-friendly rain garden won two significant awards recently. Posts navigation 1 2 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.