Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News The American Academy of Arts and Sciences Inducts Six Columbia Faculty Members Awards & Milestones The American Academy of Arts and Sciences Inducts Six Columbia Faculty Members A group of diverse Columbians join other scholars, artists, scientists, and leaders in the public, nonprofit, and private sectors. By Eve Glasberg April 28, 2022 Top, from left: Panagiota Daskalopoulos, Thomas A. DiPrete, and Saidiya Hartman. Bottom, from left: Andreas Huyssens, Jennifer Lee, Mae Ngai. Six Columbia professors have been elected members of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, joining some of the world’s most accomplished leaders from academia, the arts, public policy, and research in one of the nation’s most prestigious honorary societies. “We are celebrating a depth of achievements in a breadth of areas,” said David Oxtoby, president of the American Academy. “These individuals excel in ways that excite us and inspire us at a time when recognizing excellence, commending expertise, and working toward the common good is absolutely essential to realizing a better future.” Panagiota Daskalopoulos is a mathematics professor whose research involves partial differential equations and geometric analysis. Honors and awards include a Guggenheim Fellowship and a Sloan Fellowship. Thomas A. DiPrete is the Giddings Professor of Sociology, co-director of Columbia’s Institute for Social and Economic Research and Policy (ISERP), and a faculty member of the Columbia Population Research Center. RELATED CONTENT Barnard Professor Dorothy Ko elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Saidiya Hartman is a University Professor in the Department of English and Comparative Literature. Honors and awards include Fulbright, Rockefeller, and MacArthur fellowships. Andreas Huyssen is the Villard Professor of German and Comparative Literature, who served as founding director of Columbia’s Center for Comparative Literature and Society, and twice chaired the Department of Germanic Languages. RELATED CONTENT SIPA's Jacob Lew elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Jennifer Lee, the Julian Clarence Levi Professor of Social Sciences, is a sociologist who has been uniquely successful in placing the study of Asian Americans centrally in the discipline. Mae Ngai, the Lung Family Professor of Asian American Studies and professor of history, and co-director of the Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race, received the 2022 Bancroft Award for her book, The Chinese Question: The Gold Rushes and Global Politics. Get Columbia News In Your Inbox Tags Humanities Social Sciences Science News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Media Contact Eve Glasberg Director, Arts and Culture Communications 212 854 8336 [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close