Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program A Necessary Filter: Nonwovens Institute Steps Up to Combat COVID-19 facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Centennial Campus NC State is home to one of the premier research parks in America, a bustling hub for education, public-private partnerships, research and innovation — and a launching pad for the university’s second century. Mar 18, 2022 Spotit Opens First U.S. Location on Centennial Campus Spotit, a Belgium-based company that offers a portfolio of cybersecurity technologies and services, has opened its first U.S. office on NC State’s Centennial Campus. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Nov 9, 2021 PAWR Program Announces Launch of AERPAW Testbed for Advanced Research on Wireless Connectivity and Unmanned Aerial Vehicles WASHINGTON – November 9, 2021 – The Platforms for Advanced Wireless Research (PAWR) Project Office announces general availability of the AERPAW wireless testbed for network communications and unmanned aerial systems (UAS) research. Located in Raleigh, North Carolina, the AERPAW – or Aerial Experimentation and Research Platform for Advanced Wireless – testbed is designed to accelerate the… Nov 1, 2021 Where Textiles Meets STEM In the Department of Textile Engineering, Chemistry and Science, STEM majors can discover surprising opportunities and exceptional career preparation. May 4, 2021 Buttigieg, Emhoff Visit NC State U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg and U.S. second gentleman Doug Emhoff recently toured Centennial Campus labs and spoke with NC State researchers about the university’s infrastructure-related research and innovation. Apr 22, 2021 LexisNexis Partnership Grows Alongside Researchers, Students For seven years, global analytics firm LexisNexis has turned to NC State's expert faculty and up-and-coming student talent for help anticipating and addressing major industry challenges. Apr 19, 2021 Industry Expansion Solutions Leads Local Businesses to Success NC State’s Industry Expansion Solutions helps North Carolina businesses face challenges head-on, offering deep, engineering-based expertise that sparks success. Jan 20, 2021 NC State Names Mark Schmidt AVC for Partnerships As associate vice chancellor for partnerships, Schmidt will oversee the Office of Partnerships strategy for engaging with corporate, government and nonprofit partners, including the 75 partnerships on Centennial Campus. Dec 8, 2020 2 Named Fellows of Inventors Academy Two NC State faculty members have been honored for their innovative work at the forefront of their disciplines. Nov 30, 2020 Preserving Lake Raleigh’s 100-Year Legacy With Fisheries Partnerships NC State's Department of Applied Ecology has partnered with NC Wildlife Resources Commission since 2006. Their mission? Managing the urban fresh water resource of Lake Raleigh — including its fishy residents. Nov 11, 2020 All Hands on Deck: Building Powerful Partnerships NC State's Partnerships Office brings together experts across campus to forge successful university-industry collaborations that benefit everyone. Oct 7, 2020 Kenan Fellows Take STEM Education to the Next Level The Kenan Fellows Program for Teacher Leadership brings together educators across North Carolina for an immersive experience in STEM fields. Sep 22, 2020 Inside ABB and NC State’s Decadeslong Partnership ABB was the first corporate partner to move onto Centennial Campus. Now, 30 years later, the company is still working with NC State to improve the reliability and reduce the cost and environmental impact of electric power systems. Aug 25, 2020 NC State Partner Bandwidth Helps Students Move From College to Careers Bandwidth, based on NC State's Centennial Campus, will expand its headquarters and create 1,100 new jobs and $100 million in capital investment over the next eight years. Jun 9, 2020 Fewer Cars Mean More Hand Sanitizer NC State partners with Novozymes to make a product once taken for granted - hand sanitizer. Apr 2, 2020 A Necessary Filter: Nonwovens Institute Steps Up to Combat COVID-19 NC State begins production of nonwoven mask materials that could help combat shortages caused by COVID-19. Posts navigation 1 2 … 7 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.