Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Wolfpack Community Invited to Gather for Vigil facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: campus community May 9, 2022 Krispy Kreme Challenge Meets $2 Million Commitment Park Scholars celebrate an achievement nearly two decades in the making. The funds directly impact North Carolina children and families at UNC Children's Hospital and NC State Park Scholars Children's Specialty Clinic. Sep 8, 2021 New Campus Master Plan Needs Your Input NC State planners are building a framework to meet future needs and align campus development with the university's new strategic plan. Find out how you can contribute to the process. Aug 19, 2021 Greenhouse Effect: A More Sustainable Campus Grounds Services is saving money and boosting sustainability by growing flowers and plants in its own greenhouse on the west side of campus. Jun 23, 2021 Finding Your Wolfpack: The GLBT Center No matter where you are on the continuum, the NC State GLBT Center has something to offer. Mar 2, 2020 9 Foods You Didn’t Know You Could Get on Campus Shake up your dining experience with these NC State Dining menu items that you may have overlooked. Feb 10, 2020 5 Ideas for On-Campus Date Nights Student Imani Starling-Brown shares ideas for on-campus date nights that won't break the bank. Feb 3, 2020 Technician at 100 A century after its founding, NC State's oldest student newspaper is still going strong, providing valuable experiences for students and innovating for a new era. Aug 15, 2019 5 Things to Enjoy on Campus Before Summer Ends Classes start soon and football season is nearly upon us, but there are still plenty of ways to enjoy summer on campus before the season officially wraps up. May 2, 2019 Wolfpack Community Invited to Gather for Vigil Faculty, staff and students are invited to reflect and respond to the impacts of recent acts of violence across the country at a community vigil Thursday, May 2, at the Talley Student Union. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.