Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Arts and Sciences faculty honored for teaching, advising excellence By Kate Blackwood May 16, 2022 At the end of each academic year, the College of Arts & Sciences recognizes excellence in teaching and advising. This year’s award winners include Jeffrey Palmer and Malte Ziewitz, recipients of the 2022 Robert and Helen Appel Fellowship for Humanists and Social Scientists; Alex Ophir, recipient of the 2022 Robert A. and Donna B. Paul Academic Advising Award; and Kyle Lancaster, recipient of the 2022 Morgan Chia-Wen Sze and Bobbi Josephine Hernandez Distinguished Teaching Prize. Jeffrey Palmer (left) and Malte Ziewitz, recipients of the 2022 Robert and Helen Appel Fellowship for Humanists and Social Scientists, at a May 10 reception. Dave Burbank/Cornell University These Arts and Sciences faculty members will be honored at a university-wide event May 27 recognizing excellence in teaching and advising. “It is wonderful to celebrate these awardees, who exemplify the many remarkable teachers and advisors in the College of Arts and Sciences,” said Ray Jayawardhana, the Harold Tanner Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences. “These faculty members and graduate teaching assistants have made tremendous contributions for the benefit of our students, guiding their educational paths and molding their experiences. I am deeply grateful to Robert and Helen Appel, to Robert and Donna Paul, to Morgan Chia-Wen Sze and Bobbi Josephine Hernandez, and to the other generous donors who recognize and elevate the importance of teaching and advising for our students, our faculty, and our whole community.” Other 2022 College of Arts and Sciences honors: The Stephen and Margery Russell Distinguished Teaching Award went to Cathy Caruth, professor of comparative literature and literatures in English; Amy Krosch, assistant professor of psychology; Song Lin, associate professor of chemistry; Matthew Velasco, assistant professor of anthropology; and to graduate student teaching assistants Christina Fogarasi, literatures in English; Shirley Le Penne, government; and Caitlin Miller, neurobiology and behavior. The Deanne Gebell Gitner ’66 and Family Annual Prize for Teaching Assistants went to graduate students Lyrianne Gonzalez, history; David Mehrle, mathematics; Matthieu Real, classics; Prairie Wentworth-Nice, mathematics; and Vivian (Hanwen) Zhang, psychology. The Rosenthal Advancement of College of Arts and Sciences Woman Faculty Award went to Caitlín Barrett, associate professor of classics; and Son Suyoung, associate professor of Asian studies. The Rosenthal Advancement of College of Arts and Sciences Women Graduate Research Award went to graduate students Aimee Plukker, Romance studies; and Victoria Baugh, literatures in English. The Sophie Washburn French Instructorship went to Brenda Schertz, senior lecturer in linguistics; and Thierry Torea, senior lecturer in Romance studies. Read the full story on the College of Arts and Sciences website. Arts & Humanities Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Around Cornell Media Inquiries Media Contact Media Relations Office mediarelations@cornell.edu 607-255-6074 Get Cornell news delivered right to your inbox. Subscribe You might also like Advising, teaching awards honor Arts and Sciences faculty $10M gift to A&S boosts College Scholar Program, scholarships Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON