Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News All News Announcement Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire The Sagol Professor of Brain Science, co-director of Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute, founding director of the Kavli Institute for Brain Science, and senior investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute came to Columbia in the 1950s. May 02, 2022 Columbia University Awarded $185 Million for Patent Infringement by NortonLifeLock Inc. Columbia committed to defending intellectual property rights. Unanimous verdict ensures professors and researchers recognized for innovative work. May 02, 2022 Kathy Boudin: A Great Life and A Great Loss Celebrating the life and mourning the loss of Columbia Center for Justice co-founder and co-director Kathy Boudin. May 03, 2022 Shih-Fu Chang Appointed Dean of Fu Foundation School of Engineering and Applied Science As dean, he will promote efforts that grow the university's capacities for innovative research and continue to elevate the educational experience at the school to attract the most talented engineering students and faculty. May 03, 2022 A Story of Native Persistence in the Great Lakes Region History Professor Michael Witgen brings the success of the Anishinaabeg to life in his new book, “Seeing Red.” May 04, 2022 These Educators Received a Presidential Teaching Award This Year. Their Students Explain Why. Read what Columbia students have written about the professors and graduate students who received this well-deserved distinction in 2022. May 04, 2022 Former Commissioner of the Department of Correction Says That Everything You’ve Heard About Rikers Is True School of Social Work’s Vincent Schiraldi recounts his experience working on Rikers Island and his hopes for a more humane jail and prison system. May 04, 2022 Skin Cancer in People of Color Columbia dermatologist Dr. Dawn Queen runs through the facts on skin color, skin cancer, and other effects of ultraviolet rays. May 04, 2022 AAAS Elections, Statistics Fellows, and More Columbians Honored From science to engineering, writing to social sciences, here are the Columbians who received awards recently. May 04, 2022 Four Columbians Elected to the National Academy of Sciences Computer scientists Alfred Aho and Toniann Pitassi, mathematician Michael Harris, and sociologist Mario Small join this year’s class of new members. May 05, 2022 Why Academia Should Focus Research on the Asian American and Pacific Islander Experience Five Columbia faculty members from English and comparative literature, global studies, sociology, creative writing, and history explain why it is important that their disciplines concentrate on Asian American and Pacific Islander issues. May 05, 2022 Researchers Discover Extensive Groundwater System Beneath Antarctica’s Ice The previously unmapped reservoirs, reported in the journal Science, could speed the flow of glaciers to the sea and release carbon into the atmosphere. May 05, 2022 Asia and Africa Have Similar Aging Burden as the West A new metric devised by Columbia’s Mailman School of Public Health shows that health is more important than age for determining dependency ratios and a more accurate assessment of the aging burden across countries. May 05, 2022 2022 World Food Prize Awarded to Columbia Climate Scientist Cynthia Rosenzweig Climatologist and agronomist Cynthia Rosenzweig has been named the 2022 World Food Prize Laureate for her pioneering work in modeling the impact of climate change on food production worldwide. May 06, 2022 Mentoring the Next Generation of Neuroscientists A business major turned biologist, Columbia postdoc Robert Fernandez studies the nervous system of roundworms while helping college students from underrepresented and disadvantaged backgrounds pursue PhD programs in science. May 06, 2022 An Architect-Artist Tackles Climate Change and Other Issues With Speculative Projects In an online GSAPP event, Olalekan Jeyifous discussed how his visionary works of Crown Heights and Lagos offer hope for the future. May 06, 2022 How Electric Vehicles Could Fix the Electrical Grid Local governments and policymakers are anxious about the U.S. grid’s ability to withstand ever-increasing demand. Consumers could hold the key to an untapped resource. May 09, 2022 2022 Pulitzer Prize Winners Columbia University today announced the 2022 Pulitzer Prizes, awarded on the recommendation of the Pulitzer Prize Board. May 09, 2022 University Working Group Submits Anti-Bullying Recommendations The report proposes a definition of bullying and other abusive behavior, a remedial framework, and changes in culture and climate to help prevent such behavior. May 09, 2022 In a Pair of Merging Supermassive Black Holes, a New Method for Measuring the Void Columbia researchers have discovered a way of sizing up the ‘shadows’ of two supermassive black holes in the process of colliding, giving astronomers a potentially new tool to measure black holes in distant galaxies and test alternative theories of gravity. May 10, 2022 Mayor Adams Launches NYC Pandemic Response Institute Partnership with Columbia University and CUNY will help New York City learn from COVID-19 and tackle urgent public health emergencies. May 10, 2022 A New History of Black Creativity and Aesthetics In “Antagonistic Cooperation,” Professor Robert O’Meally explores everyone from Bearden and Basquiat to Ellison, Morrison, and Ellington. May 10, 2022 When and Where to Capture the Empire State Building Lit Up Blue for Columbia Grads in 2022 The night of May 18, the Empire State Building will glow blue and white for Commencement. Here’s where to capture the best photos with it. May 12, 2022 Meet Valentina Izmirlieva, the New Director of the Harriman Institute The war in Ukraine has affected every aspect of work at the institute, she says, including her plans for the Harriman's future. May 12, 2022 2022 Faculty Mentoring, Service, and Diversity Awards Announced The Office of the Provost is pleased to recognize faculty whose work embodies Columbia’s commitment to inclusive excellence. May 13, 2022 What Is Your Fondest Memory of Your Columbian? As graduation week is upon us, loved ones reflect on their favorite Columbian’s time at the university. May 13, 2022 The Center for Justice Paves a Path to Reentry for Formerly Incarcerated Students This year, seven formerly incarcerated students affiliated with Columbia's Center for Justice will graduate from the university. May 13, 2022 Jelani Cobb: ‘Everything is on the table’ Kyle Pope interviews Jelani Cobb about the role of journalism at a politically fraught time, diversity efforts at the Columbia Journalism School, and the cost of degrees from institutions like Columbia. Today, he was appointed dean of the school. May 13, 2022 Jelani Cobb Appointed Dean of Columbia Journalism School President Lee C. Bollinger announces the next dean of Columbia Journalism School. May 13, 2022 14 Photos That Show the Unabashed Joy of Columbia's Graduating Class of 2022 It has been a trying few years, but we couldn't be happier to celebrate Columbia's Class of 2022, who have triumphed through it all. May 13, 2022 New Report Promotes Innovation and Protects Human Rights in Neurotechnology Rafael Yuste, professor of biological sciences and director of Columbia's NeuroTechnology Center, has coauthored a report commissioned by the U.N. secretary general. May 14, 2022 Family Size May Influence Cognitive Functioning in Later Life Having three or more children has a negative effect on late-life cognition, says new research by Columbia’s Mailman School of Public Health. May 16, 2022 Lazy Bears and Confused Birds: What a Warming Planet Means for Wildlife Climate change is upsetting the migratory rhythms of many species, disrupting pollinators, and spelling trouble for ecosystems around the world. May 16, 2022 The Magic of Building with Mushrooms Fungus-based construction materials could be useful in remote settings or at the scenes of natural disasters. May 18, 2022 National Academy of Sciences Elections, a 'Modern Love' Essay Contest Winner, Faculty Awards From science to engineering, writing to social sciences, here are the Columbians who received awards recently. May 18, 2022 Wetlands Won’t Grow Fast Enough to Out Pace Sea-Level Rise The benefits of higher CO2 levels on plants disappear under flooding, a three-decades long experiment by Columbia’s Mailman School of Public Health reveals. May 18, 2022 Screening Program Could Identify 1 Million Americans with Genetic Heart Disease A screening program that combines genetic and lab testing could identify 1 million Americans at risk of early death from heart disease because they carry a gene that causes high cholesterol, says new research by Columbia University Irving Medical Center. May 19, 2022 Making a Better World: One P-value at a Time Statistics lecturer and amateur dancer Wayne Lee talks about his experience as a Taiwanese-American and explains why he left Silicon Valley to teach statistics and how this corner of mathematics can help us all learn to be more open minded. May 19, 2022 President Bollinger Reflects on a 'New Age of Disinformation' in Commencement Address Bollinger discussed free speech, knowledge, expertise, and humility, as well as the role of universities as a force for good in society. May 20, 2022 28 Photos From Columbia Commencement Week That Show How Happy We Are to Return to Campus to Celebrate Our Grads For the past week, Columbians have turned out to celebrate the Classes of 2022, 2021, and 2020 in style. May 23, 2022 Symposium Suggests Large-Scale Societal Changes Are Needed to Lessen Impact of Harmful Lies Knight First Amendment Institute’s “Lies, Free Speech, and the Law” event featured research from a diverse range of scholars on how to address the problem of falsehoods. May 23, 2022 The Complex World of Air Traffic Controllers In “Dead Reckoning,” Sociology Professor Diane Vaughan looks at the effort it takes for controllers to keep the skies safe. May 23, 2022 The Society of American Historians Announced the Winners of Its 2022 Prizes Eric Foner, professor emeritus of history, was awarded the Tony Horwitz Prize for distinguished work in American history. May 23, 2022 Keren Yarhi-Milo Appointed Dean of the School of International and Public Affairs "A long-standing and devoted member of the Columbia community, Keren will be a wonderful addition to University leadership," wrote President Lee C. Bollinger. May 23, 2022 Columbia Law School to Advise Ukraine on International Claims and Reparations Through the new project, a team of scholars and experts will examine and propose legal frameworks for the management of international claims and reparations. May 24, 2022 Columbia Climate School Announces First Faculty Hire Archaeologist and anthropologist Kristina G. Douglass will join faculty from across Columbia who are part of the Climate School’s first-in-the-nation graduate program focused on training the next generation of leaders addressing climate change. May 24, 2022 Josef Sorett Appointed Dean of Columbia College "Josef is a consummate Columbian, who brings to this position a deep commitment to the unique and special role of the Core Curriculum in our undergraduate education and to ensuring our students have the best possible experience," wrote President Lee C. Bollinger. May 25, 2022 Teaching Asian American History Through the Lens of Chinese Food The intersection of history and food to combat bias was the focus of a recent Weatherhead East Asian Institute event. May 26, 2022 Everything You Need to Know About the Monkeypox Outbreak As of May 25, there were 226 confirmed cases of monkeypox in 21 countries, including several in the U.S. Mailman School of Public Health experts discuss the virus and the outbreak. May 27, 2022 How to Talk to Children About Gun Violence Prerna Arora, assistant professor of school psychology at Teachers College at Columbia University, offers some advice. May 27, 2022 Gun Violence Prevention Experts at Columbia Respond to Mass Shootings Members of Columbia's Scientific Union for the Reduction of Gun Violence at Mailman School of Public Health and Teachers College respond to the recent mass shootings in Uvalde, Texas, and Buffalo, New York. May 27, 2022 A New Book Urges You to Get Up and Get Active Mailman Professor Lawrence Brown’s “Political Exercise” is at the intersection of public health and urban planning. May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir In her new book, Professor Margo Jefferson examines her life against a backdrop of American cultural influences. June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire The Sagol Professor of Brain Science, co-director of Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute, founding director of the Kavli Institute for Brain Science, and senior investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute came to Columbia in the 1950s. June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones From science to engineering, writing to social sciences, here are the Columbians who received awards recently. June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award One of four mid-career researchers selected, Zelevinsky will use the $2 million award to advance the use of molecules to study fundamental science. June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia Learn about Columbia’s long history in the LGBTQ+ movement, events open to the Columbia community, and available resources across our campuses. This MonthPast NewsAll News Filter By: All list displaygrid display No more items to display. Past News Other News Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close