Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News Primary Navigation - New Wave News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Public Relations Team: tel 504-865-5210, @tulanenews, pr@tulane.edu COVID-19, Culture, Event, On Campus, People, World Psychologist explores history of anti-API racism and advocates for a united community May 03, 2022 In time for Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month in May, the Office of Equity, Diversity and Inclusion invited Sherry Wang, an associate professor of counseling psychology at Santa Clara University, a licensed psychologist, researcher and anti-racist educator, to present her research on anti-Asian violence and racism in the lecture “Asian American/Pacific Islander Mental Health Amidst the Twin Pandemics: Lessons Beyond COVID-19.” COVID-19, News Releases, Research in Real Time Tulane researchers receive American Heart Association grant to study COVID’s vascular effects April 25, 2022 The American Heart Association has awarded Tulane University researchers $940,000 to study how COVID-19 spurs vascular inflammation that may increase risks for blood clots and lingering symptoms of long COVID. COVID-19, Culture, Health New book aims to prepare social work students for 21st century challenges March 23, 2022 The role of social workers in the pandemic is one of the topics that Joan Blakey, PhD, addresses in the 11th edition of her book Direct Social Work Practice: Theory and Skills. COVID-19, Culture, Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane wins $2.27 million grant to combat burnout among health care workers March 04, 2022 The Tulane School of Social Work has been awarded a $2.27 million grant from the U.S. Health Resources and Services Administration to develop and implement a plan to address retention, burnout and overall wellbeing and resiliency of the health care workforce. COVID-19, Culture, Health, News Releases Irma Thomas gets animated about the importance of clinical trials February 02, 2022 The Soul Queen of New Orleans, Irma Thomas, is spreading the word about clinical trials in a new animated short co-produced by a Tulane community engagement initiative. COVID-19, Culture, Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science, World Anxiety and alcohol misuse among pandemic-related mental health challenges Americans face February 02, 2022 Mental health issues continue to be a crucial concern as the pandemic enters a recovery phase, according to a Tulane study. COVID-19, News Releases, Research in Real Time Metabolic syndrome increases risk of respiratory distress, death for hospitalized COVID-19 patients December 22, 2021 Patients hospitalized with COVID-19 who had a combination of high blood pressure, obesity, diabetes, or other conditions associated with metabolic syndrome were at much higher risk of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and death, according to an international study published in the medical journal JAMA Network Open. COVID-19, Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane researcher receives award to study the threat of diseases from bats December 20, 2021 Hannah Frank, a bat expert in the Tulane University School of Science and Engineering, will share in a $1.25 million award for new research in detecting and mitigating emerging animal-borne infectious diseases. COVID-19, Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Lessons of COVID-19 underscore need for better teacher support, study says November 19, 2021 When the COVID-19 pandemic forced New Orleans public school teachers to switch from in-person instruction to a virtual or hybrid setting, the transition left many feeling anxious over their ability to impact student learning, according to a multi-agency study led by Tulane University. A study led by Tulane University, a member of the New Orleans Trauma-Informed Schools Learning Collaborative, revealed that many teachers suffered from anxiety, depression and posttraumatic stress during the COVID-19 pandemic — and continue to do so. COVID-19, Podcast An epidemiologist’s guide to safely celebrating the holiday season November 19, 2021 Now that COVID-19 vaccines are widely available and mask mandates and restrictions on gatherings are no longer in place in many areas, is this the year that Thanksgiving and the holidays return to normal? COVID-19, Science Tulane researchers examine relationship between viral dose and COVID-19 severity November 09, 2021 Tulane researchers Chad Roy and Greg Bix collaborated on a literature review to examine the relationship between viral dose, infection, and COVID-19 disease severity. COVID-19, Culture, Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane professor explains the study of disasters in new book November 08, 2021 Andy Horowitz, a Tulane scholar on the history of disasters, explains the meaning of "disaster" in new book "Critical Disaster Studies." COVID-19, Culture, Health, News Releases, Science, World Tulane researchers studying challenges of food service workers during COVID-19 pandemic October 29, 2021 Tulane psychologists are leading a project that aims to address pandemic-related issues among food service workers, including health and safety issues, stress and other long-term consequences. COVID-19, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Tulane scientists unravel 50-year-old medical mystery behind toddlers’ deaths from RSV vaccine October 22, 2021 Tulane University researchers have explained why two toddlers died in 1967 after participating in an infamous clinical trial for an experimental vaccine against RSV, the most common cause of pneumonia in children. Commencement, COVID-19, Culture, Event, Health, In Memoriam, Life@Tulane, Make Way, Media Advisory, New Hires, New Orleans Book Festival, News Releases, NOLA, On Campus, People, Podcast, Research in Real Time, Retirements, Science, Trailblazers, World Tulane ecologist recruiting students for new scholars’ program October 19, 2021 Tulane ecologist Jordan Karubian is recruiting 15 students — from any discipline and including faculty — to the first Ecuador Scholars Program Symposium on Thursday, Oct. 21 from 5 to 7 p.m. in the Qatar Ballroom at the LBC. Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Subscribe to Tulane Today Tulane Today Archive News Archive Submit Your News Submission Guidelines Tulane in the News On Good Authority Podcast Statements Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University