skip to menu skip to content University of Southern California USC News Menu Search Search search Menu Search search Sections Arts Athletics Business Health Humanities Policy/Law Science/Technology Social Impact Student Life University Featured Topics Alzheimer’s Disease Research Sustainability more topics Subscribe to receive USC News via email Email address subscribe Social ImpactUniversity USC Pride Month to celebrate ‘The Power of Community’ Kickoff on June 1 includes virtual event sharing personal stories and Keck Hospital of USC flag-raising ceremony. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Print BY Greg Hernandez May 27, 2022 USC kicks off a monthlong celebration of LGBTQ+ pride on June 1 with a virtual event themed “The Power of Community.” USC President Carol L. Folt will join with students, faculty and staff members for the noon celebration, in which participants will share what pride means to them and more. Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) Pride Month is celebrated each June in honor of the 1969 Stonewall uprising in Manhattan. (USC illustration) Speakers will also reflect on ways queer and trans communities empower and inspire, who their role models are, and what it means to be celebrating Pride in person again after experiencing COVID-19 shutdowns during the past two years. “For so many queer college students, this is their introduction to Pride culture,” said USC Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences junior Hannah Gardiner of QuASA (Queer and Ally Student Assembly), the umbrella organization for queer student groups at USC. “Not everyone is so lucky to be welcomed by their families and hometown communities,” Gardiner said. “By creating space for LGBTQ+ staff, students and faculty, USC Pride invites everyone — especially those who have never experienced the joy of queer pride — to celebrate themselves in a newly empowering way.” USC Pride Month celebration comes amid swell of anti-LGBTQ+ legislation Speakers will also reflect on some of the struggles queer and trans people still face and what change they would still like to see. This year’s pride celebrations come amid a wave of anti-LGBTQ+ bills being proposed and laws being passed around the country. “We are in a time in our country right now where LGBTQ+ rights and protections are under attack,” said Megan van der Toorn, student equity and inclusion programs manager for USC’s Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transgender Plus Student Center. “To be able to uplift and celebrate our communities is powerful and important. Folks who are earlier in their journey or are still finding themselves can see that they are not alone.” Shortly before Wednesday’s virtual event, the Progress Pride Flag will be raised in front of Keck Hospital of USC in an 11:45 a.m. ceremony. The Progress Pride Flag adds a five-colored chevron to the classic Rainbow Flag. (Illustration/USC Libraries) The Progress Pride Flag adds a five-colored chevron to the classic Rainbow Flag, representing marginalized LGBTQ+ communities of color, along with the colors of the Transgender Pride Flag. “This will be the first time that a pride flag has flown in front of the hospital for the entire month of June,” explained Lindsey Morrison, co-chair of Keck Pride, the LGBTQ+ employee resource group that spans Keck Medicine of USC and the Keck School of Medicine of USC. The flag ceremony will be hosted by Rodney Hanners, president and CEO of the USC Health System and Keck Medicine CEO, and Keck School of Medicine Dean Carolyn C. Melzer. USC to be represented in L.A. Pride event Keck Pride, which focuses on creating a welcoming, inclusive environment for faculty, staff members and patients, will also participate in 52nd annual L.A. Pride Parade in Hollywood on June 12. “The importance of that visibility and coming together is so powerful especially since we’ve been in a pandemic for more than two years now and haven’t been able to have those venues of connectiveness,” Morrison said. “This year in particular feels like it has even more importance around finding our joy together.” Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) Pride Month is celebrated each June in honor of the 1969 Stonewall uprising in Manhattan, a tipping point for the gay liberation movement in the United States. Wednesday’s event can be viewed online. A full list of USC Pride Month events can be found on the university’s event calendar. More stories about: Diversity Equity and Inclusion, Events, LGBTQ Related stories HealthUniversity (Photo/Courtesy of Keck Medicine of USC) Keck Medicine of USC receives ‘LGBTQ+ Healthcare Equality Leader’ designation Keck Medicine of USC’s hospitals and USC Student Health earn the top score in the Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2022 Healthcare Equality Index. March 28 Student Life Jephtha Prempeh (USC Photo/Greg Hernandez) COVID-19, a racial reckoning, the rise in anti-Asian hate crimes and anti-LGBT laws created a challenging climate for these students’ academic journeys. (Photo/Greg Hernandez) How turbulent times have shaped the USC Class of 2022 COMMENCEMENT 2022: COVID-19, a racial reckoning, the rise in anti-Asian hate crimes and anti-LGBTQ+ laws created a challenging climate for these students’ academic journeys. May 10 Social Impact Five Blue Max Motorcycle Club members in uniform jackets and Pickelhauben helmets seated on Harley Davidson Electra Glide motorcycles in Glendale circa 1970. (Image/USC Libraries) Stories from L.A.’s pioneering gay motorcycle clubs are told through USC’s ONE Archives USC has the largest archive of LGBTQ materials in the world, and researchers use it every year to learn more about gay history and culture. June 29, 2021 Alumni LifeUniversity Members at one of the first meetings of USC Lambda | PHOTO COURTESY OF USC LAMBDA ALUMNI ASSOCIATION ARCHIVES LGBT Alumni Celebrate 25 Years of Pride June 13, 2017 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Print USC Pride Month to celebrate ‘The Power of Community’ Top stories on USC News Social Impact (Photo/Courtesy of the U.S. WWI Centennial Commission) ‘We were young, they say. We have died. Remember us.’ USC Dornsife alumnus and retired Navy Capt. Chris Isleib helped create the first national memorial for World War I veterans, part of a long career spent telling the stories of America’s military. May 27 Health USC researchers have linked air pollution to everything from increased risk of autism to asthma and cardiovascular disease. (Photo/Alfred Palmer/Public Domain) Exposure to air pollution can worsen patient outcomes from COVID-19 A study by researchers of the Keck School of Medicine of USC and Kaiser Permanente finds a link between exposure to airborne particulate matter and increased risk of serious coronavirus complications. May 26 Health (Photo/Olga DeLawrence) Electronic ‘nudges’ may improve safety in opioid prescribing among California doctors, study finds Researchers observed a 23% drop in opioid prescriptions and a 27% increase in prescriptions for naloxone. May 26 Subscribe to receive USC News via email Email address subscribe About This Site Contact Us Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination