UNM A-Z StudentInfo FastInfo myUNM Directory Research Campus Life Academics About UNM UNM Newsroom Toggle search About Us Welcome Mission About UNM Campuses UCAM UCAM Staff News Topics Front Page Inside UNM Lobo Hub Latest News Alumni Announcements Athletics Events Calendar For the Record HSC News In The News Research UNM Live UNM Proud Schools and Colleges Anderson School of Management School of Architecture & Planning School of Engineering School of Law School of Public Administration College of Arts & Sciences College of Fine Arts College of Education and Human Sciences Honors College College of University Libraries & Learning Sciences University College For News Media About UNM Campus Maps Fast Facts Faculty Experts B-Roll Images Advisories Media Relations Media Guide UNM Newsroom on Twitter Search Newsroom Submit search UNM Newsroom / News / 2021 General News Year-in-Review General News Year-in-Review Camille Carey named dean of the UNM School of Law. Emma Hotz named 2021 Truman Scholar. Eva Encinias has A passion for Flamenco. UNM alumna Deb Haaland named Secretary of the Interior. Credit: Deb Haaland 2021 General News Year-in-Review December 24, 2021 Categories: Front Page Faculty News Latest News Staff News University Communication and Marketing (UCAM) annually compiles a Year-in-Review highlighting its general and research news and feature stories across campus during the course of the calendar year. Below is a select list based on UCAM's Google Analytics of the top 2021 general news stories highlighting UNM students, faculty, staff and alumni accomplishments. The top 2021 research news stories will be published on Dec. 30, 2021. Carey named dean of UNM School of Law After a nationwide search, The University of New Mexico has named Camille Carey as dean of the School of Law, effective July 1, 2022. Carey is the vice dean and the associate dean for Academic Affairs at the UNM School of Law. The professor joined UNM as faculty in 2009 and holds the Karelitz Chair in Evidence and Procedure. Over the years, Carey has taught Clinic, Torts, Advanced Torts, Civil Procedure, Immigrants’ Rights and Domestic Violence Law. UNM names 10 faculty to the rank of Distinguished Professor The University of New Mexico recently announced the promotion and honor of 10 faculty to the rank of Distinguished Professor. They include Lisa Broidy, Alexander Buium, Joseph Cook, Laura Crossey, Jeremy Edwards, Fernando Garzon, Kerry Howe, Mary Ann Osley, Nina Wallerstein and Douglas Ziedonis. Lobos asked to assist with vaccine clinic at The Pit In commitment to community health, The University of New Mexico is permitting employees to use compensated work hours to staff a COVID vaccine clinic at The Pit. The newly created UNM Health COVID-19 Vaccination Clinic at The Pit is enabling UNM Hospital officials to administer vaccinations with guidance and support from the New Mexico Department of Health (DOH). Vaccines will be administered under the phases outlined by the DOH. UNM’s Emma Hotz named 2021 Truman Scholar The University of New Mexico is proud to announce undergraduate student Emma Hotz is a 2021 Truman Scholar. The decision was made public through the Truman Scholarship Foundation on April 14, 2021.Hotz is a junior studying Political Science and Sociology, with a Political Science Honors designation and an Honors College designation. She is one of only 62 new Truman Scholars selected this year. The Foundation received 845 nominations for candidates from 320+ colleges and universities – a record number of applicants. UNM plans campus return The University of New Mexico today released plans for its return to main campus this summer. UNM is tentatively targeting Monday, Aug. 2 as its return for mostly in-person operations. UNM began remote work operations due to the COVID-19 pandemic on March 17, 2020. Current main campus plan details are outlined below and will continue to be updated on the refreshed Bringing Back the Pack website, under The Pack is Back: A Safe Return to Campus. Associate professor creates positive psychology workbook For 15 years Bruce Smith has taught positive psychology at The University of New Mexico to more than 4,000 students and now he's created a workbook containing some of the same material he uses in his course to help make 2021 a better year for everyone. The new positive psychology workbook is free and available to everyone. Positive psychology has been defined as the science of happiness and what makes life worth living. Individuals can download the workbook for free. Professor who brought Flamenco to UNM retires Eva Encinias Sandoval, the dancer who brought Flamenco to The University of New Mexico, recently retired after 43 years. Encinias's love for the fiery, passionate Spanish dance form led her to create the concentration in Flamenco in the UNM dance department. Like many people, Encinias Sandoval re-evaluated her 43-year career during the pandemic. Friends, colleagues recall the invaluable impact of former UNM School of Law Dean Fred Hart Those who worked alongside him and shared in his dedication and passion of law say there is no way to adequately express the immeasurable impact Dean Fred Hart had on the University of New Mexico and the greater community as a whole. Leo Lo named dean of UNM’s College of University Libraries and Learning Sciences The University of New Mexico has named Leo Lo as dean of the College of University Libraries and Learning Sciences (CULLS). Lo comes to the Land of Enchantment from The Pennsylvania State University, where he currently serves as Penn State University Libraries Associate Dean for Learning, Undergraduate Services and Commonwealth Campuses. UNM names the only Indigenous chair of architecture program in the U.S. Chris Cornelius was recently named chair of the Department of Architecture at The University of New Mexico School of Architecture and Planning (SA+P) following a national search. He takes over from Regents’ Professor Kuppaswamy Iyengar, who served as acting chair following Professor John Quale’s tenure as department chair since 2014. Historic confirmation: UNM alumna Deb Haaland becomes first Native American Interior Secretary As a day forever changed in history, New Mexico Congresswoman and UNM alumna Deb Haaland has become the newest member of U.S. President Joe Biden’s Cabinet. In a historic confirmation as the first Native American to serve in a White House Cabinet role, Haaland will lead the U.S. Department of the Interior. Related News UNM group participates in prestigious Venice art exhibition New study suggests using Cannabis can make you a nicer person UNM researchers find climatic backdrop shows Pueblo cultural development was coeval with drier conditions It’s electrifying: UNM’s FSAE team to compete in its first EV contest News Minute Subscribe to the UNM News Minute for up to the latest campus news and information. Your E-mail Address Submit A Story Do you have a suggestion for a story that illustrates excellence at UNM? Submit A Story Academics Academic Calendars Class Schedule Colleges & Schools Course Catalog Degrees & Certificates Graduate Studies Campus Life Arts & Entertainment Athletics Diversity Recreational Services Student Activities Student Union Resources Bookstore Computing Continuing Education Employment Libraries UNM Newsroom Information for… Alumni Faculty Parents & Families Patients Public Records - IPRA Staff APPLY Now Visit UNM Give to UNM © The University of New Mexico Albuquerque, NM 87131, (505) 277-0111 New Mexico's Flagship University UNM on Facebook UNM on Instagram UNM on Twitter UNM on Tumblr UNM on YouTube more at social.unm.edu Website Comments Accessibility Legal Contact UNM New Mexico Higher Education Dashboard