Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Give to UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap Search Tools People Search Course Search Cane Link myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Give to UM Schools Alumni Roadmap Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links University of Miami Division of University Communications Office of Media Relations Miller School of Medicine Communications Hurricane Sports UM Media Experts Emergency Preparedness Home Search Latest Headlines Students Alumni Faculty School News Thought Leadership Rankings Awards & Honors More Topics Events Miami Herbert About Miami Herbert Faculty and Research Academic Programs Students and Alumni Latest Headlines Events Miami Herbert News@TheU Latest Headlines Life@theU Events Subscribe to News@TheU Newsletter Search Latest Headlines Students Alumni Faculty School News Thought Leadership Rankings Awards & Honors More Topics Events Miami Herbert About Miami Herbert Faculty and Research Academic Programs Students and Alumni News@TheU Latest Headlines Life@theU Events Subscribe to News@TheU Newsletter UM NEWS HOME Home Stories 2021 January The Economist ranks MBA faculty quality No. 8 worldwide AAA The Economist ranks MBA faculty quality No. 8 worldwide By Marlen Lebish 01-21-2021 The Economist ranks MBA faculty quality No. 8 worldwide By Marlen Lebish 01-21-2021 The full-time MBA program at Miami Herbert and its professors ranked among the world’s best by The Economist’s 2021 “Which MBA?” Full-time rankings. Overall, Miami Herbert’s MBA program ranked 77th in the world, and 34th in the nation. In addition to the impressive global and national status, the School also received high marks for its quality of faculty ranked at No. 8 in the world. The Economist’s faculty quality rating is based on the ratio of faculty members to students, the percentage of full-time faculty members with doctoral degrees and faculty rating by students. “This ranking not only reflects the quality of our faculty, but the quality of their research and the experiences they bring to the classroom,” said Dhananjay Nanda, vice dean of faculty and research, and accounting professor at Miami Herbert. “Our faculty is more diverse than ever and continues to receive recognition for their work, which is evident from the praise received from students and alumni.” The Economist Which MBA? rankings are based on various components of importance among current business students and alumni who have graduated within the last three years. The complete ranking and methodology is available on the “Which MBA?” website. For more information about the Miami Herbert Full-time MBA program, click here. Miami Business School Apply Now Admission and Application Info Programs Undergraduate and Graduate About Us Learn More Visit Us Miami Herbert Business School Events Calendar Miami Business School Apply Now Admission and Application Info Programs Undergraduate and Graduate About Us Learn More Visit Us Miami Herbert Business School Events Calendar University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 USA UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports 'Cane Watch UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search MyUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Get social with Miami Herbert social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2021 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback