Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Keeping her goals in focus Reaching for the stars Campus & Community Keeping her goals in focus Campus & Community Keeping her goals in focus Rawan Alhawamdeh captured campus scenes before returning to the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain. Photos courtesy of Rawan Alhawamdeh Rawan Alhawamdeh wants to use eye contact to treat ASD, ADHD, and giftedness By Samantha Sarafin ’21 Harvard Correspondent DateMay 17, 2021May 18, 2021 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 Global alumni community gather for first virtual annual meeting View all of Honoring the Class of 2021 This is one in a series of profiles showcasing some of Harvard’s stellar graduates. In the fall of 2017, Rawan Alhawamdeh stepped onto Harvard’s campus with a vision for improving the lives of children with autism spectrum disorder (ASD), attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and giftedness (which may bring with it social struggle as well as academic advantage). When Alhawamdeh graduates from the Division of Continuing Education (DCE) with a master of liberal arts degree in psychology, she will receive a diploma to match her already-extensive resume. She established Genomics, possibly the first epigenetics-based play center in the world, and two companies, Sensory Middle East (SENSORYME) and Mind, Brain, Behavior Middle East (MBBME), all while completing her capstone project and working as an occupational therapist. “I am so grateful for the flexibility Harvard gave me to study and work at the same time. It helped me to inform my work with evidence and to create physical spaces and therapy approaches that are usable for other therapists, in order to help more children globally,” Alhawamdeh said. For her DCE capstone project, Alhawamdeh researched and developed an evidence-based-therapy approach to treating ASD, ADHD, and giftedness and an accompanying mobile app she calls iConcentrate. Her therapy program enables children to engage in eye contact, be attentive to other people, control hyperactive behavior, and better understand emotions, and often produces reduced symptoms within six to eight weeks. “iConcentrate includes assessments, therapy stages, and technology that tracks children’s eye movements, attention, and brain processing speed. The therapy is interactive, and it uses non-invasive approaches that combine play with the technology in order to help with eye contact and focus,” she said. Rawan Alhawamdeh treats children who range in age from infancy to 15 years old. While studying at Harvard and working in the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain, Alhawamdeh’s daily schedule has not been easy. At 8 a.m., she begins her workday, where she treats children who range in age from infancy to 15 years old. After a full day, she begins studying for her courses at the DCE, and, at 1 a.m., she finally attends lectures. “When I see the children really improving, the work feels so rewarding, and my academic schedule feels worth it. It feels like I have saved a person from not being able to fully use the world we live in,” Alhawamdeh said. Because of her untraditional schedule, Alhawamdeh spent her last three years at Harvard developing crucial study habits, and now finds herself able to study almost anywhere, at any time. In her free moments, Alhawamdeh enjoys designing colorful party dresses and scarves for women. She said she has been motivated not only by her patients, siblings, and husband, Mohammed Aladas, but also by a constant awareness of her parents. After losing her mother to cancer just before arriving at Harvard, and, more recently, her father, who passed away from COVID-19, Alhawamdeh feels their spiritual presence in her life. “When I was a child, I always played with my father’s medical books and his stethoscope, as he was a surgeon. He had a deep love of study and had always wanted to pursue graduate education, so my academic journey really is a part of his dream. My mother, when she had cancer, was constantly helping others — a trait that I now try to bring to my work with children,” Alhawamdeh said. “I am grateful for the time I had with them, and I know they are watching me now, proud.” Alhawamdeh hopes to pursue a Ph.D. in clinical psychology to continue building her eye-contact and attention-focused-therapy approach, to share her approach with other therapists, and to build more play centers. “The human mind is unlimited. I see this in my work as an occupational therapist, but also within my own learning. The more you challenge your brain, the more you can produce,” Alhawamdeh said. “I took these lessons with me to Harvard, and I will take them with me as I continue on.” Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 Global alumni community gather for first virtual annual meeting View all of Honoring the Class of 2021 Up Next Campus & Community Reaching for the stars Campus & Community Reaching for the stars Video by MicroObservatory