Skip to main content calendar subscribe Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds YaleNews Explore Topics Alumni Arts & Humanities Business Campus & Community Environment Health & Medicine International Law Science & Technology Social Sciences In Focus In Memoriam Search form Search Arts & Humanities Stories YCBA exhibition puts contemporary spin on ‘history’ paintings May 31, 2022 A new exhibition juxtaposes artist Marc Quinn’s history paintings and other works with pieces from the Yale Center for British Art’s historic collections. In Memoriam John M. Merriman, French historian, beloved teacher May 26, 2022 A prodigiously productive scholar and popular and admired teacher at Yale, Merriman died on May 22 after a long illness. He was 75. Bicentennial observance will reflect on YDS past, imagine its future May 23, 2022 Yale Divinity School looks forward to celebrating its 200th year with a conference, exhibits, a special Fall Convocation, and more. Meet these Yale Divinity School graduates: Commencement 2022 May 20, 2022 2022 Yale Divinity School graduates reflect on their experience and look ahead to what’s next in their lives and careers. Alum leads a quilting ministry to remember George Floyd’s last words May 20, 2022 After the video of Floyd’s death went viral, Rev. Mark Koyama ’15 M.Div. launched a craft ministry, now the subject of a documentary, to fight racist violence. Why do religious nursing homes have worse violations of care standards? May 18, 2022 New research suggests homes’ strong internal identity means that wrongdoing is less likely to be flagged for an outside regulator’s involvement. Introducing the Faculty of Arts and Sciences mace May 17, 2022 The mace draws inspiration from traditions spanning the ancient Near East to today’s Yale campus. With Commencement season under way, it’s ready for showtime. Sharing the untold story of an overlooked pioneer in bioethics May 17, 2022 A research collaboration between a Yale senior and visiting professor uncovers the impact on the field of Christian ethicist James M. Gustafson’s time at Yale. Jay Fife reckons with tribal history while building community May 16, 2022 For Fife, whose thesis comprises the first-ever history of the Mvskoke language, graduation celebrates survival, reclamation, and community empowerment. Celebrating the art, poetry, and prose of Yale health profession students May 12, 2022 A recent virtual contest featuring poetry, prose, and art displayed the creative talents of Yale MD, physician associate, nursing, and public health students. Show More Articles Search Arts & Humanities Yale Browse Archives Contact Us For the Media It’s Your Yale Apply to Yale Give to Yale Managed by the Office of Public Affairs & Communications Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy · Accessibility at Yale Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds Yale on Instagram