Skip to content Columbia University Irving Medical Center Find People Events Faculty and Staff Resources Give Now Search About Us About Us Facts and Figures Explore CUIMC Events Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at CUIMC Community Development and Alumni Explore CUIMC Leadership and Administration A-Z Listing Affiliated Hospitals Campus Map and Directions Campus Resources Contact CUIMC Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion At CUIMC, we are committed to continuous improvement in providing culturally inclusive medical education and clinical care. Learn About Our Commitment Education Education Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Mailman School of Public Health School of Nursing College of Dental Medicine VP&S Columbia Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons is dedicated to developing the next generation of leaders in medicine Learn About Our Academic Programs Research Research The Louisa Gross Horwitz Prize Columbia Technology Ventures Research Administration Columbia Clinical Innovation Lab Patient Care Patient Care ColumbiaDoctors Children's Health Columbia Primary Care Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center ColumbiaDoctors Dentistry Digital Health Services at Columbia Find a Doctor Search for a provider by specialty, expertise, location and insurance. Schedule an appointment online. Find a Doctor News News For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine Read the latest news stories about CUIMC faculty, research, and events Explore Our News COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Resources for CUIMC COVID-19 Information for Patients COVID-19 Campus Safety for Employees and Students COVID-19 Vaccine Information For CUIMC Employees and Students COVID-19 Information and Resources for Clinical Staff COVID-19 Vaccine Information Learn about COVID-19 vaccine availability and requirements for employees and students at CUIMC Get the Latest Information For the Media Share Your News CUIMC Update CUIMC Celebrates Columbia Medicine News Topics Campus News Research Medical School Public Health Cancer Mental Health Infectious Diseases Neurology Neuroscience Education Heart Health Pediatrics View All Topics Search All News Keywords Top Stories Transient Ischemic Attacks May Be Brief But Need Serious Attention A transient ischemic attack (TIA) is a stroke that usually lasts under five minutes and resolves on its own, but just because the symptoms disappear, does not mean a TIA should be ignored. Topic Neurology Mental Health Care in AAPI Communities: Overcoming Language, Stigma, and Other Barriers Language differences, stigma, and the "model minority" myth prevent many people in Asian American and Pacific Islander communities from getting mental health care. Topic Mental Health Lung Cancer Screening Program Launches at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian The program brings together physicians and nurse practitioners from multiple disciplines to provide care for smokers and ex-smokers who are at high risk for lung cancer and other complications. Topic Cancer Missing Link Between Alzheimer’s and Vascular Disease Found? A gene called FMNL2 may explain why people with hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, or obesity have a greater risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Topic Neurology View All News Events Mentor of the Year Award Wednesday, April 20, 2022 to Friday, June 3, 2022 12:00 AM to 5:00 PM Venue Online Online TISSUE TALKS: Melina Kibbe, MD, University of Virginia Wednesday, June 1, 2022 3:00 PM to 4:00 PM Venue Online Event Parkinson's Disease CARE PARTNER Support Group Wednesday, June 1, 2022 5:30 PM to 6:30 PM Venue Online Event Zoom Meeting View All Events In The Media Opioid Use a Hazard for Young Patients Battling Sarcomas Source: U.S. News & World Report May 31, 2022 "These results highlight the need to monitor young patients with sarcoma for post-treatment opioid use,” said author Melissa Beauchemin, assistant professor at Columbia University School of Nursing. Baby-Formula Shortage Worsened by Drop in Breast-Feeding Rates Source: The Wall Street Journal May 29, 2022 The pandemic allowed some mothers to nurse for longer because they were working from home, said Kim Hekimian, an assistant professor of nutrition at Columbia University Irving Medical Center. Alzheimer’s Researchers Probe New Treatment Paths Source: The Wall Street Journal May 22, 2022 “It was so compelling that it triggered the pharmaceutical industry to act,” said Scott Small, director of the Alzheimer’s Disease Research Center at Columbia University. View All In The Media Browse by Topics COVID-19 Is a Second COVID Vaccine Booster Right for You? April 4, 2022 Columbia infectious disease expert Marcus Pereira explains what’s known about the benefits of a second COVID vaccine booster. Topic Infectious Diseases Unfinished Business: Columbia Hosts 2nd COVID Vaccine Symposium March 22, 2022 On March 28, world leaders and global health experts will gather for Columbia University’s second annual Virtual Symposium on Vaccines and Global Health. Topic COVID-19 Delayed Recovery of Consciousness Is Common for COVID Patients on Respirators March 15, 2022 COVID patients who remain unresponsive after receiving respiratory support may require long time periods to regain consciousness; delays are related to blood oxygen levels. Topic COVID-19 Cancer Lung Cancer Screening Program Launches at Columbia and NewYork-Presbyterian May 24, 2022 The program brings together physicians and nurse practitioners from multiple disciplines to provide care for smokers and ex-smokers who are at high risk for lung cancer and other complications. Topic Cancer Let’s Talk About Sex… and Cancer May 19, 2022 Sexual dysfunction is common among female cancer patients but infrequently addressed. Columbia oncologist Christine Chin is working to change that. Topic Cancer Wendy Chung on Genetics and Cancer May 4, 2022 Columbia geneticist Wendy Chung reflects on the progress made in cancer genetics and discusses the next frontier of using genetic information to design personalized cancer prevention strategies. Topic Cancer Neuroscience Missing Link Between Alzheimer’s and Vascular Disease Found? May 24, 2022 A gene called FMNL2 may explain why people with hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, or obesity have a greater risk of developing Alzheimer's disease. Topic Neurology Turbocharger for Memory Found in Brain Cells of Mice March 17, 2022 A new Columbia study shows that the movement of calcium within neurons boosts learning, revealing a basic principle of memory encoding in the brain. Topic Neuroscience Common Thread May Cause Many Neurodegenerative Diseases March 7, 2022 A newly discovered protein tangle has been associated with multiple neurodegenerative diseases and may have a role in causing the diseases. Topic Neuroscience Heart Health Screening Program Could Identify 1 Million Americans with Genetic Heart Disease May 17, 2022 A combination of genetic and lab testing could identify 1 million Americans who are at risk of early death from heart disease because they carry a gene that causes high cholesterol. Topic Heart Health Hypertension Center Certification is a Big Deal. Here’s Why. April 15, 2022 The Columbia Hypertension Center has been certified by the American Heart Association, recognition that Columbia is a leader in the care of patients with high blood pressure. Topic Heart Health Hiroo Takayama Appointed Chief of Adult Cardiac Surgery March 15, 2022 Internationally renowned “surgeon’s surgeon” is known for his skill in highly complex cases. Topic Campus News Public Health What to do while waiting for COVID vaccines for kids under 5 May 26, 2022 It’s still important to protect your children and the people around them to prevent hospitalization and COVID’s worst outcomes. Topic Pediatrics Mental Health Care in AAPI Communities: Overcoming Language, Stigma, and Other Barriers May 23, 2022 Language differences, stigma, and the "model minority" myth prevent many people in Asian American and Pacific Islander communities from getting mental health care. Topic Mental Health Major Uptick in Cannabis Vaping Reported Among Adolescents May 19, 2022 Vaping is becoming an increasingly popular way among youth to use cannabis, a trend that is concerning because of the high levels of THC delivered through vaping devices. Topic Public Health Campus News Neighborhood Corner Co-Named Coogan's Way May 26, 2022 Coogan's bar and restaurant, the now-closed beloved fixture in Washington Heights, was celebrated with the co-naming of the corner of Broadway and 169th Street as Coogan's Way. Topic Campus News CUIMC Update - May 26, 2022 May 26, 2022 View the CUIMC Update, a weekly e-newsletter featuring medical center news and the accomplishments of our faculty, staff, and trainees. Topic Campus News CUIMC Employee Makes Big Difference at Commencement with Small Act of Kindness May 26, 2022 While volunteering at a CUIMC graduation ceremony, Patty Conde, a human resources staff member, provided special assistance to a visiting family. Topic Campus News View All Topics Columbia University Irving Medical Center NewYork-Presbyterian About Us Careers News Education Patient Care Research Resources at CUIMC Columbia University Irving Medical Center 630 West 168th Street New York, NY 10032 United States Follow Us Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn Instagram Back to top