Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Computing & Information Sciences First class of Milstein students heads toward graduation May 26, 2022 Twenty seniors in the Milstein Program in Technology & Humanity will graduate this year with degrees in everything from biology to linguistics to computer science to physics. Around Cornell Startup Roundup: Antithesis Foods, Guard Medical, C2i, Bactana May 24, 2022 Cornell startup Antithesis Foods and Bactana were awarded NSF small-business grants, as Guard Medical raises $11 million in Series B investments and C2i launches a disease test in Europe. The 2030 Project to marshal faculty to solve climate crisis May 12, 2022 Declaring this the “decisive decade” for climate action, Cornell launched The 2030 Project: A Climate Initiative, which will mobilize world-class faculty to develop and accelerate tangible solutions to the climate challenge. Online retail images reveal skin tone discrepancies May 11, 2022 A Cornell study found that still images of models in online retail ads had statistically lighter skin tones than those in videos of the same product and model. They also found evidence of “tokenism” – one model who was considerably darker-skinned than the others. New building to create ‘unified complex’ for Bowers CIS May 4, 2022 Construction is scheduled to begin in early 2023 on a state-of-the-art academic building for the Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science, to be built adjacent to Bill and Melinda Gates Hall on Hoy Road. Staff News Pollack, Pape elected to arts and sciences academy April 28, 2022 President Martha E. Pollack and Dr. Jean William Pape, M.D. ’75, professor in clinical medicine at Weill Cornell Medicine, have been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Staff News Fashion show’s digital ‘model’ will promote fundraising NFT April 28, 2022 Lior Cole ’23 will enter a non-fungible token in this weekend’s Cornell Fashion Collective Spring Runway Show. The NFT, to be auctioned off as a fundraiser, will be the first digital “model” in the 38-year history of the CFC spring show. Mixed-reality driving simulator a low-cost alternative April 28, 2022 Cornell Tech researchers have developed a mixed-reality driving simulator system that could lower the cost of testing vehicle systems and interfaces, such as the turn signal and dashboard. Library deal to stimulate open access April 24, 2022 Library strikes "read-and-publish" access with Cambridge University Press. Around Cornell Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON