Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program New Study Reveals Why Facebook Ads Can Miss Target facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: college of engineering May 23, 2022 Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance The soft robots demonstrate a concept called "physical intelligence." May 23, 2022 New Tech Aims to Drive Down Costs of Hydrogen Fuel The new tech for extracting hydrogen gas from liquid carriers is faster, less expensive than previous approaches. May 16, 2022 New Approach Allows for Faster Ransomware Detection The approach detects a broad range of ransomware far more quickly than previous systems. May 5, 2022 Researchers Find Way to Make Traffic Models More Efficient The models are used for everything from traffic-light patterns to apps for driving directions. May 4, 2022 Stem Cell-Derived Model Offers Insights on Gene Activity and Addiction The work also offers a blueprint for related research moving forward. May 4, 2022 Researchers Devise Cheaper, Faster Way to Continuously Produce Amines Hindered amines are used as building blocks in products ranging from pharmaceuticals to LEDs. May 3, 2022 National Inventors Hall of Fame Honors 3 With Ties to NC State Three innovators who have served on NC State's faculty are inducted into the prestigious organization at a two-day event in Washington, D.C. Apr 29, 2022 Husain, Kudenov Receive 2022 Alcoa Foundation Awards Iqbal Husain and Michael Kudenov, two exceptional College of Engineering faculty members, received the 2022 Alcoa Foundation Engineering Research Awards at the spring faculty meeting earlier this month. Apr 22, 2022 Research Through an Equitable Lens Recognizing the importance of a fair and just society, researchers at NC State prioritize equity in their diverse fields. Apr 5, 2022 New Technique Offers Faster Security for Non-Volatile Memory Tech Researchers used a hybrid hardware-software approach to improve file system security for NVMs. Apr 1, 2022 Researchers Roll Out Data on COVID Vaccine Distribution and Waste The researchers hope others can use the data to improve vaccination efforts in the future. Apr 1, 2022 New Polymer Membrane Tech Improves Efficiency of CO2 Capture New tech is more efficient at removing carbon dioxide from mixed gases, such as power plant emissions. Mar 31, 2022 Quantum ‘Shock Absorbers’ Allow Perovskite to Exhibit Superfluorescence at Room Temperature Researchers explain why some perovskites exhibit superfluorescence at high temperatures. Mar 30, 2022 Graduate Programs Rise in Rankings This year's U.S. News rankings bring good news for graduate programs across the university. Three programs place in the top 10 nationwide while numerous other graduate programs advance. Mar 28, 2022 New Study Reveals Why Facebook Ads Can Miss Target The study finds Facebook's algorithm doesn’t seem to account for the context of user activities. Posts navigation 1 2 … 34 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.