Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News These Educators Received a Presidential Teaching Award This Year. Their Students Explain Why. Commencement 2022 These Educators Received a Presidential Teaching Award This Year. Their Students Explain Why. Read what Columbia students have written about the professors and graduate students who received this well-deserved distinction in 2022. May 04, 2022 Mariam Aly, Paul Bloom, Christopher Hwu, Milica Ilicic, Matthew Palmer, Devon Rupley, Josef Sorett, and Yevgeniy Yesilevskiy. Each year, nominations for the Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching pour in from students and other members of the Columbia community. These letters include heartfelt tributes in support of professors and teaching assistants that shine a bright light on the talented educators who make Columbia Columbia. Below are excerpts from some of the nominations for the 2022 winners of the award. Mariam Aly, Assistant Professor of Psychology Mariam Aly “She is truly special in that she knows how to draw out the best in all her students, making them feel intelligent, welcome, and curious. No matter what question I had, whether conceptual, theoretical, or just plain far-fetched and imaginative, Dr. Aly always had a thought out, supported answer for me and provided resources for me to pursue my curiosity.”—Ugochinyere Ndukwe (CC'22) Paul Alexander Bloom, Graduate Teaching Fellow and PhD Candidate, Department of Psychology Paul Bloom “His exceptional ability as a teacher is largely due to his evident passion about the topics he teaches and his excitement to communicate this knowledge. As a mentor, Paul has continually pushed me to think more deeply about every research decision I make, undoubtably pushing me to be the best researcher I could be.”—Nick Kathios (CC'21) Christopher Hwu, Graduate Research Assistant and PhD Candidate, Department of Chemistry Christopher Hwu “Chris is the most hardworking and dedicated instructor I have ever had the pleasure of knowing. He puts in an incredible amount of work to ensure that his students are prepared for success in his classes, their Columbia experience, and their careers.”—John Crane (CC'24) Milica Iličić, PhD Candidate and Former Teaching Fellow, Department of Slavic Languages Milica Iličić “Milica is uniquely passionate about her pedagogy—especially implementing inclusive pedagogical methodologies—and she has an unmatched love for her students. I know for sure that she has changed my educational journey for the better and has helped to set me up for a better future. A university is, at the core, made up of people, and Milica embodies one of the best of those people.”—Savannah Eklund (GS'23) Matthew I. Palmer, Senior Lecturer in the Discipline of Ecology, Evolution, and Environmental Biology Matthew Palmer “His course on botany has fundamentally altered the way I look at the world around me. I find myself walking a little more slowly on my way to campus from my dorm every day, just to take a look at the plants around me. Every day I come away with a greater appreciation of Columbia's campus and the city around me.”—Diego Plaza Homiston (CC'23) Devon M. Rupley, Assistant Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology Devon Rupley “Hearing about her clinical experiences and her passion for being an OB/GYN has made me so excited for my clinical years. One of the reasons I chose Columbia was for the fantastic advising and supportive faculty, and Devon fulfills that completely.”—Juliana Levy (VPS'25) Josef Sorett, Professor of Religion and of African American and African Diaspora Studies Josef Sorett “Professor Sorett is dedicated to allowing his students to thrive and flourish in the exploration of their interests. He does this by giving them room to freely express themselves in their work while also skillfully assisting them in making connections to the literature.”—Malik Johnson (CC'22) Yevgeniy Yesilevskiy, Lecturer in the Discipline of Innovation and Design Yevgeniy Yesilevskiy “From being proactive in attempting highly developed, yet ever progressive course curriculums that better fit the demands of the modern engineering field, to being most receptive and responsive to student concerns and needs, he has crafted some of the most unique and enriching academic experiences I have been fortunate to have in my 4 years at Columbia.”—Estevan Mesa (SEAS'22) News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close