Skip to main content Search for: Ex: How do I apply to Providence College? Menu Apply Visit Give Coronavirus Information & Updates Parents & Families Alumni Media MY-PC Events Providence College News News archive Providence College Magazine Full text issues Video and Podcasts Providence College Podcast Virtual Veritas Social Media Contact Us Close menu Providence College News Welcome to the Providence College news site. Our staff is committed to telling the stories that best convey and support the mission of the College and the Catholic and Dominican traditions of truth and excellence. We invite you to explore our multimedia content and discover an unbridled passion focused on our students and our community. Celebrating the Class of 2022 alex cannon ’22: nuclear energy in pop culture eliana dacunha ’22: crafting her own major grace maffucci ’22: loving music and spanish linda ineus ’22: ‘god means for us to have friends’ colby agostino ’22: goldwater scholar noah derossi-goldberg ’22: from debate society to law school ashley gigon ’22: sprinter and smart scholarship recipient class of 2022 commencement more providence college stories Providence College Magazine: Spring 2022 kathy kelleher, rn, minding student health mike st. thomas ’05: how i found my vocation as a teacher jillian rose-smith, ed.d. ’04, community health advocate eddie martucci, ph.d. ’04, treatment by video game donna formichella, m.d. ’78, defying the odds paul coyne, dnp ’08, ensuring patient safety patricia slonina vieira ’75, reflections from an almost-golden friar more from the spring 2022 magazine see the full magazine Providence College Magazine Providence College Magazine received a Silver Award in the 2021 District 1 Excellence Awards competition of the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education, known as CASE. Read about the College’s CASE honors. News from the Spring 2022 semester daughters of mlk, malcolm x speak at convocation pc installs chapter of phi beta kappa dr. eva michelle wheeler: race and language music technology, pc’s newest major business school rises in poets&quants ranking providentia, a fund by women, for women on the pc podcast: civ goes to london covid-19 news and resources Providence College Podcast More PC Podcasts 1 Cunningham Square Providence, RI 02918 USA Tel: +1.401.865.1000 Contact PC Support PC Emergency Information Student Consumer Information Academics Majors, Minors, Programs Academic Calendar Library People & Places Offices & Services Directory People Directory Maps & Directions Visit Facts & Info Fast Facts Jobs Mass Schedule Annual Security Report Title IX & Sexual Harassment Copyright ©2022. Providence College Terms of Use | Privacy Policy If you are having trouble viewing or accessing these web pages, please email our Web Accessibility Coordinator Page maintained by: PC Web Services | About This Site