Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News 6 Things to Know About Commencement 2022 and Graduation Season at Columbia Commencement 2022 6 Things to Know About Commencement 2022 and Graduation Season at Columbia May 18 marks the first in-person Commencement since the start of the pandemic, here are six things graduates and their guests should know. By Kelly Moffitt April 08, 2022 Photo By Eileen Barroso In-person Columbia Commencement is back and better than ever! As we ease back to festivities, you may have some questions and Columbia News is here to help with six things you should keep in mind this graduation season. Read through those things below, but don't forget that the Commencement website is here for you with up-to-the-minute updates about this year's festivities. If you have more specific questions, you can always reach out to their helpline at [email protected]. 1. While Commencement 2022 will be in-person for the first time in two years, the event will be live-streamed so friends and family all over the world can take part. Registration is required for Commencement and school ceremonies. Keep an eye on your email for the ticket registration link. Tickets are limited due to space constraints. New this year: Graduate tickets will be required to participate in University Commencement and many other Commencement-related activities and events. With ticket limits in mind, though, we're taking what we learned from our virtual ceremonies and ensuring everyone who wants to view Commencement will be able to stream the ceremony on the Commencement website, Columbia homepage, and Columbia YouTube channel. This way, friends and family from all over the world can tune in to help celebrate the Class of 2022! 2. Commencement and Class Day setup starts earlier than you think — get your regalia and plan your pictures now! Everyone wants to grab an iconic photo in their regalia in front of Alma Mater, Low Library, and Butler Library, but construction for Commencement and class day ceremonies starts earlier than you think. This year, bleachers will begin to be installed starting April 18. With that in mind, make sure you order your cap and gown as soon as possible so you can grab pictures wherever you please. For undergraduates and master's students, regalia ordering closes April 27. For doctoral students, regalia is. More information here. RELATED CONTENT Commencement 2022 Stories If you're running a little behind, NEVER FEAR! Columbia News has compiled a photo essay with equally iconic photography location ideas for your grad photos. 3. Here is the official COVID-19 guidance for Commencement 2022 as of April 1, 2022: "Please note the following policy is applicable for any Commencement-related activity or event on Morningside campus. "Columbia University is committed to protecting the health and safety of its community. To attend any Commencement activity or event on Morningside campus, all graduates, visiting alumni, and guests over the age of five must meet the University requirement of full vaccination status and provide full proof of COVID-19 vaccination. Anyone who is unable to be vaccinated for medical, religious, or other reasons will be required to provide proof of a negative COVID-19 test (an at-home antigen test on the day of each event or PCR test within 48 hours of the first attended event). Additionally, unvaccinated guests over the age of two must wear a face mask during all events. "Note that this event policy is dependent on the status of the University's COVID-19 Monitoring Plan. "Commencement activities and events outside of Morningside campus may have different requirements for in-person attendance. Please contact your individual school for more details." You can keep up-to-date on COVID-19 guidelines for Commencement festivities here. 4. We are so proud of how our community came together to celebrate the Classes of 2021 and 2020 online. Now, we're excited to offer a special in-person ceremony for them this year on May 19. You asked and we heard you: This year, we're offering a make-up ceremony in person for the Classes of 2021 and 2020 on May 19 on the Morningside campus. Registration is required. Full regalia is optional for the Classes of 2020 and 2021, but caps will be required. You can find more information here. 5. Help us make Commencement sustainable — bring a reusable water bottle with you! Columbia is committed to global sustainability efforts. Here's where you can learn about Green Initiatives at Commencement. Most important for your planning, single-use plastic bottles will not be distributed. Guests and students should bring their own reusable bottle that can be refilled at any of the water refill stations that will be available on Morningside campus during Commencement Week. 6. Share your story with us. #RoarLions2022, #RoarLions2021, #RoarLions2020 We want to celebrate YOU. With that in mind, make sure that you share your Columbia story, graduation pictures, and Commencement experiences using the hashtag #RoarLions2022 (for the Class of 2022), #RoarLions2021 (for the Class of 2021), and #RoarLions2020 (for the Class of 2020). You can also share your picture with us to be used in Commencement videos and social media by using this form for the Class of 2022 and this form for the Classes of 2021 and 2020. More questions? The Commencement website is your best friend! At this university resource, you can find information about the Commencement ceremony itself, school ceremonies information, frequently asked questions, and it is the place you can go to be sure you'll catch the ceremony live stream, in addition to Columbia's YouTube and homepage. Get Columbia News In Your Inbox Tags Students News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close