Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Student Life Student films document Cornell’s LGBTQ history June 1, 2022 Students in an Introduction to LGBTQ Studies class this semester brought key events in Cornell’s history to light through short documentaries. Merrill Scholars honor their mentors May 31, 2022 Each spring the Merrill scholars are asked to recognize the high school teacher who impacted their early education and the Cornell faculty or staff member who contributed most significantly to their college experience. Undergrads launch peer-reviewed journal May 31, 2022 The Cornell Undergraduate Research Journal, a biannual digital and print publication, received 20 submissions for its inaugural issue. From those, the editorial board selected nine articles featuring a wide range of topics. Men’s lacrosse set to face Rutgers in NCAA semifinals May 26, 2022 Seventh-seeded Cornell will meet sixth-seeded Rutgers on May 28 in the NCAA Division I men's lacrosse national semifinals. Gametime is noon in East Hartford, Connecticut; the winner advances to the national championship game, May 30. Community Work Study Program Student Employee Awards May 26, 2022 Joy Davis ’22 and Grace Choi ’22 were named Community Work Study Program Student Employees of the Year for their leadership, professionalism and teamwork in jobs that help improve the lives of community residents. Around Cornell First class of Milstein students heads toward graduation May 26, 2022 Twenty seniors in the Milstein Program in Technology & Humanity will graduate this year with degrees in everything from biology to linguistics to computer science to physics. Around Cornell Instrument-building festival challenges, inspires May 26, 2022 The FutureSounds Festival extended the existing sound world with presentations by guest builders and performers and newly designed instruments and compositions by Cornell students. Wu encourages grads to embrace their stories May 25, 2022 Actress, producer and writer Constance Wu displayed plenty of wisdom – and irreverent humor – in her keynote address at the 2022 Convocation. Cornell celebrates bumper crop of Fulbright students May 25, 2022 The Fulbright U.S. Student Program, administered at Cornell by the Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies, allows recipients to define and carry out their own research projects in host countries. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON