Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Featured Article University Response Our public health guidelines and policies in a rapidly changing environment. Read more Campus News Temple plans to repurpose former beloved campus... Former campus bar The Draught Horse will be repurposed into an upscale casual dining facility to serve Temple and the local community. Student Success Temple’s 135th Commencement in photos Temple’s 135th Commencement ceremony returns to the Liacouras Center for the first time in three years. Campus News Temple joins parents for discussions on campus... A roundtable discussion provided parents with an opportunity to share feedback and ask questions. Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business... President Wingard joins SBDC Director Maura Shenker for one-on-one conversation at the Union League Latest News View Temple Now Articles by Date Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences May 24, 2022 Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities May 24, 2022 Campus News Support Temple by becoming an Owl Advocate May 18, 2022 Campus News Temple Robotics team prepares for NASA Lunabotics competition May 18, 2022 View the News Archives Recent Videos Celebrating a first Dr. Jason Wingard is the first African American president in Temple University's history. View Video Temple celebrates the birthday of founder Russell Conwell Each February, we reflect on how it all started. View Video Klein College senior interviews President Jason Wingard Niccolas Uff, Class of 2022, gets to know Temple's new president. View Video Welcoming Temple’s next president Jason Wingard will serve as the university’s 12th president. View Video Flying Further together In this video, JoAnne A. Epps describes her hopes for our strategic planning process. View Video Temple celebrates the birthday of founder Russell Conwell Klein College senior interviews President Jason Wingard Welcoming Temple’s next president Flying Further together VIEW MORE TOPICS Taking on the Global Heath Crisis The Temple community came together to tackle a worldwide pandemic. Read our story Return to Campus Get the latest news about Temple's plans to return to campus. Read all stories Twitter See More Social Media Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.