Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home Politics and Social Justice Politics and Social Justice Recap Genevieve Lakier (left), Knight First Amendment Institute senior visiting research scholar, and Jameel Jaffer, Knight First Amendment Institute executive director. Photo credit: Bruce Gilbert Symposium Suggests Large-Scale Societal Changes Are Needed to Lessen Impact of Harmful Lies Knight First Amendment Institute’s “Lies, Free Speech, and the Law” event featured research from a diverse range of scholars on how to address the problem of falsehoods. A Twitter List by Columbia Anti-Racism Programs Work For the Future Two Columbia Law School programs awarded funding through the inaugural round of Anti-Racism Grants—the Black Men’s Initiative and the Law School Pathways Program—are designed to help current and future law students. Why Academia Should Focus Research on the Asian American and Pacific Islander Experience Five Columbia faculty members from English and comparative literature, global studies, sociology, creative writing, and history explain why it is important that their disciplines concentrate on Asian American and Pacific Islander issues. IN THE NEWS Why Putin puts his neighbor Georgia on edge SIPA's Lincoln Mitchell opines on how Georgians fear a Russian invasion of their country. CNN Opinion May 16, 2022 Philippines election set to bring dictator Ferdinand Marcos' family back to power with landslide win for son Bongbong Sheila Coronel, professor at Columbia Journalism School, discussed how the Marcos family have been on a decades long disinformation campaign to rehabilitate their image. CBS News May 10, 2022 Why Is the U.S. Still Probing Foreign Visitors’ Social Media Accounts? Knight First Amendment Institute's Anna Diaku and Carrie DeCell write on the Biden's administration expansion of a Trump-era practice of checking foreign visitors' social media accounts. The Washington Post April 26, 2022 Fix Childcare Like NYC’s Recovery Depends On It Ester Fuchs, professor of political science, writes about how the lack of accessible childcare is preventing some of our poorest New Yorkers from getting jobs. The Daily News April 22, 2022 Image Carousel with 5 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1 Slide 2 Slide 3 Slide 4 Slide 5 Listen to Harriman Institute's podcast on Ukraine Center on Global Energy's Podcast Series "Unpacking Latin America" podcast with Professor Vicky Murillo A podcast from African American and African Diaspora Studies Listen to Season 2 of Global Thought Previous Next POLITICS Celebrating a Rich History of Climate Change Expertise A look at SIPA’s past, and future, at the intersection of policy and the environment. Russia and Ukraine: What Does Putin Want? Watch the School of International and Public Affairs expert panel discussion about what the impacts of Russia's aggression in Ukraine. Emerging Voices Program Seeks to Add Diversity in National Security Professions The Saltzman Institute of War and Peace Studies has inaugurated a new pilot program that will expand curricula at SIPA and Columbia and encourage female, BIPOC, and first-generation students to consider and pursue professional opportunities in national security and related fields. Knight Institute Asks Federal Court To Strike Down Florida’s Social Media Law The Knight First Amendment Institute urges the court to reject arguments that would prevent government from regulating to protect free speech online. Social Justice School of Social Work Hosts Three Displaced Scholars Scholarship recipients will use their social work training to improve mental health or social and political conditions in their home countries. Columbia World Projects Holds Event For COVID-19 Harlem Loss Project This project aims to reduce COVID-19 related grief in Harlem’s Black community by partnering Columbia researchers with local faith leaders and other community leaders to address intense and pervasive grief that has emerged as a result of the pandemic. White Americans Pay Less Attention to Black Peers, Says a New Study The researchers also found the bias could be reversed if study participants were given the chance to observe the competency of their peers firsthand. CENTERS AND INITIATIVES CRIMINAL JUSTICE ReEntry Acceleration Program (REAP) Justice Lab Mailman School of Public Health Incarceration Prevention Center for Justice SAFElab Justice in Education Initiative RACIAL & GENDER EQUITY Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race Institute for Research in African American Studies Atlantic Fellows for Racial Equity Institute for Research on Women, Gender and Sexuality Center for the Study of Social Difference CIVIL & HUMAN RIGHTS Ira Lipman Center for Journalism and Civil and Human Rights Human Rights Institute Institute for the Study of Human Rights Columbia World Projects Center on Poverty and Social Policy Eric Holder Jr. Initiative for Civil and Political Rights FREE SPEECH Brown Institute for Media Innovation Tow Center for Digital Journalism Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University Global Freedom of Expression Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close