Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Improving AI’s Ability to Identify Students Who Need Help facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: engineering May 23, 2022 Applications for Admission Soar as NC State Grows to Meet Workforce Needs Demand for an NC State degree is at an all-time high as the university prepares to welcome its largest and most diverse first-year class. May 4, 2022 Researchers Devise Cheaper, Faster Way to Continuously Produce Amines Hindered amines are used as building blocks in products ranging from pharmaceuticals to LEDs. Apr 22, 2022 Research Through an Equitable Lens Recognizing the importance of a fair and just society, researchers at NC State prioritize equity in their diverse fields. Nov 17, 2021 Infrastructure Bill Experts Billy Williams, director of NC State’s Institute for Transportation Research and Education and a professor of civil, construction, and environmental engineering, can speak to issues associated with transportation and transportation infrastructure in North Carolina. Williams can be reached at billy_williams@ncsu.edu or 919.515.7813. Jason Coupet is an associate professor of public administration. He has expertise in the administrative challenges associated with implementing… Nov 1, 2021 Where Textiles Meets STEM In the Department of Textile Engineering, Chemistry and Science, STEM majors can discover surprising opportunities and exceptional career preparation. Aug 24, 2021 Innovating and Inspiring: Meet Faduma Osman First-year engineering student Faduma Osman's parents brought her family to the United States from Somalia for a better life, and she's seizing every opportunity. Feb 1, 2021 Celebrating Black Alumni Meet six extraordinary Black alumni from across the decades who found their place at NC State — and in the world. Nov 24, 2020 Record-Setting Class of AAAS Fellows Named The election of 10 faculty to the prestigious scientific society signals NC State's rising reputation as a research powerhouse. Feb 28, 2020 New Tool Aims to Assist Military Logistics in Evacuating Noncombatants A new computer model aims to expedite military operations aimed at evacuating noncombatants, disaster response or humanitarian relief. Feb 20, 2020 Researchers Show What Drives a Novel, Ordered Assembly of Alternating Peptides Researchers have demonstrated how to engineer two-layered nanofibers consisting of an ordered row of alternating peptides. Feb 18, 2020 Green Approach Accelerates Process Optimization and Retrieval of ‘Switchable’ Solvents Green tech accelerates screening and retrieval of “switchable” solvents. Feb 12, 2020 Researchers Develop Smaller, Lighter Radiation Shielding Researchers have developed a new technique for shielding electronics in military and space exploration technology from ionizing radiation. Feb 10, 2020 Model Shows Users How to Make On-Farm Sustainable Energy Projects More Profitable Model can predict when farm-based sustainable energy projects will turn a profit. Feb 7, 2020 Next Generation of Greenhouses May Be Fully Solar Powered Many greenhouses could become energy neutral by using see-through solar panels to harvest energy. Feb 5, 2020 Improving AI’s Ability to Identify Students Who Need Help A new AI model is better able to predict how much students are learning in educational games. Posts navigation 1 2 … 48 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.