Skip to content News Menu Search form Search term Home Find Stories For Journalists Contact Image credit: Getty Images April 27, 2022 Understanding the impact of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, according to Stanford scholars, students A compilation of Stanford scholarship and insights into the recent Russian invasion of Ukraine. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email By Melissa De Witte When Russia invaded Ukraine on Feb. 24, 2022, the Stanford community rallied to show its support for the Ukrainian people: Students hosted events, scholars offered insights into the crisis, professors hosted teach-ins, and in an unprecedented demonstration of solidarity, the Hoover Tower was illuminated in the yellow and blue colors of the Ukrainian flag. For many, the unprovoked invasion was seen as an affront to the global world norms established after WWII. “I’m also concerned, more broadly, about the implications of this invasion for our world,” said Stanford President Marc Tessier-Lavigne to the Faculty Senate on the day of the invasion. “The peace established in Europe after World War II – while not complete or unbroken before now – has nevertheless stood as a pillar of stability. The launch of a major land war in Europe is an extraordinary and shocking event of historic proportions.” Scholars from across the Stanford community – from former diplomats to students – have shared some of their research and work preserving and understanding that rich history and what the invasion represents domestically for Ukraine as well as internationally. Others also provided expertise on a range of issues that have emerged from the crisis, such as confronting pro-Kremlin disinformation online, understanding the nuclear threat Russia poses, and what makes reporting this conflict unique from other wars. Here is some of that insight, and more. Social Sciences Stanford student fights for Ukraine’s history, truth After the Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine by Russian forces, international relations major Catarina Buchatskiy bought a one-way plane ticket to Poland where she has been helping mobilize efforts to protect Ukrainian culture and history from destruction. Social Sciences The U.S. must do what it can to prevent Russian military from crossing the nuclear threshold Stanford scholar Scott Sagan discusses Russia’s nuclear threat in the country’s war of aggression in Ukraine and how Russian President Vladimir Putin is the most dangerous man in the world. Social Sciences Ukrainian refugees face a more accommodating Europe, says Stanford scholar David Laitin discusses how the experience of Ukrainian refugees in Europe compares to those who have fled other conflicts and hardships. Social Sciences Reporting the war in Ukraine The upending of the post-World War II order, a cataclysmic humanitarian crisis and the terrifying prospect that NATO and the U.S. could be drawn into an unconventional war with Russia are some of the reasons for the extensive media coverage of the war in Ukraine, says Stanford scholar and journalist Janine Zacharia. Medicine How to talk to children about the conflict in Ukraine Russia's attack on Ukraine has not only caused international outrage, but also stress and fear for people – including children. A Stanford Children's Health psychiatrist provides advice on how parents can help their kids understand the difficult situation. Social Sciences Seven tips for spotting disinformation on the Russia-Ukraine war A disinformation researcher shares what she and her team watch for when analyzing social media posts and other online reports related to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Humanities Putin sees Ukrainian democracy as threat that undermines Russia’s mission To understand Russian President Vladimir Putin’s motivations to invade Ukraine, one must look at the long history of how Moscow has perceived the country. Russian historian Norman Naimark explains some of this complicated past. A history of unity: a look at FSI’s special relationship with Ukraine Since 2005, the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies has cultivated rich academic ties and friendships with Ukrainian scholars and civic leaders as part of its mission to support democracy and development domestically and abroad. Campus Life Stanford’s Hoover Tower lights up yellow and blue in support of Ukraine On Friday, Stanford’s iconic Hoover Tower lit up in the blue and yellow colors of the Ukrainian flag in a show of solidarity with the country and its people. Social Sciences NATO and U.S. must defend against spillover without being drawn into escalation Stanford scholar and former Deputy Secretary General of NATO Rose Gottemoeller says the number one goal for NATO and the U.S. is to make sure this does not turn into a general war across Europe. Law & Policy Stanford’s Allen Weiner on the Russian invasion of Ukraine Stanford Law School's Allen Weiner discusses the legal implications of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and what might happen next. Social Sciences ‘Time just stopped’: Ukrainian students share their stories Stanford in Government hosted a conversation with Ukrainian students on the ongoing Russian war in Ukraine on Thursday evening. Social Sciences What the Ukraine-Russia crisis says about the global struggle for democracy Former prime minister of Ukraine Oleksiy Honcharuk joins Michael McFaul on the World Class Podcast to analyze Russia’s aggression toward Ukraine and how it fits into Vladamir Putin’s bigger strategy to undermine democracy globally. Social Sciences Understanding the Russia-Ukraine crisis As Russia increases its military presence along the Ukrainian border, Stanford scholar Steven Pifer discusses what Russia hopes to achieve and why its policies toward Ukraine are backfiring. Campus Life Standing with Ukraine Members of the Stanford community gathered on Friday afternoon for Stand in Solidarity with Ukraine, an event in White Plaza with Ukrainian speakers and leaders in Stanford's international community sharing their perspectives on the war and ways the Stanford community can help. President’s remarks to the Faculty Senate on invasion of Ukraine President Marc Tessier-Lavigne made the following comments at the Faculty Senate meeting on Feb. 24, 2022. Community newspaper shifts its focus to helping Ukraine survive Co-founded by Nataliya Anon, MBA ’01, Hromada is a source of news for Ukrainian Americans and support for people in the war zone. In The Spotlight Humanities Social Sciences History International Policy Politics Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email What to read next: Science & Technology Small modular reactors produce high levels of nuclear waste Small modular reactors, long touted as the future of nuclear energy, will actually generate more radioactive waste than conventional nuclear power plants, according to research from Stanford and the University of British Columbia. Science & Technology Q&A: How the aging immune system impacts brain health Katrin Andreasson, professor of neurology and neurological sciences, talks about the role the aging immune system plays in the development of age-related brain diseases. Science & Technology What the humble planarian teaches us about the building blocks of life A bioengineer studies the flatworms' ability to regenerate nerves, muscle, and other tissue. “One of the big questions we want to answer is how it does this on a genetic level?” Stanford Report To receive Stanford news daily, subscribe to Stanford Report. For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Stanford Experts See Also Contact Stanford News Faculty / Staff Resources Events Events calendar Stanford News is a publication of Stanford University Communications Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.