Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” President Wingard joins SBDC Director Maura Shenker for one-on-one conversation at the Union League May 11, 2022 The Ambler Field Station welcomes high school students through field research activities Upper Dublin students visited the Temple Ambler Field Station to participate in field research activities relating to the natural environment. April 20, 2022 Kenny Garrett, a Grammy award-winning musician, performs at Temple In February, Temple and WRTI hosted a free live community jazz concert at the Temple Performing Arts Center. March 4, 2022 Visiting North Philadelphia’s Church of the Advocate Learn about the many reasons this historic landmark near Temple’s Main Campus is one of a kind. Temple senior works to preserve a neighborhood staple Tyler A. Ray, Class of 2022, works to raise awareness about North Philly’s Church of the Advocate. Temple to again offer free tax assistance Community members are able to have their tax returns prepared through VITA program. Two Owls find a way to assist the Afghan people at the Philadelphia airport Translation for resettling Afghans as an act of community care. Occupational therapy students team up with TechOWL to create adaptive technology designs for disability community Their aim is to make the world a more accessible place for everyone. Temple’s Scott Charles on gun violence prevention Temple Health’s trauma outreach manager joined local business leaders seeking solutions to gun violence. Philly Community Wireless offers internet for the community, by the community The group hopes to address inequalities in internet access that were highlighted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Temple course answers the question: Why care about college? Assistant Professor Jennifer Johnson explains how to get the most out of a college experience. Temple trauma surgeon earns fellowship aimed at curbing gun violence As a Stoneleigh Foundation Fellow, Jessica Beard aims to transform the media narrative on gun violence in Philadelphia. An old community center provides new workforce services The community center will support collaborative efforts toward digital accessibility and training for both youth and adults in North Philadelphia. Archives Like what you see? Follow us on Twitter, Facebook and Youtube. Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades Latest Temple News Subscribe May 24 2022 New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences May 24 2022 What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities May 18 2022 Support Temple by becoming an Owl Advocate May 18 2022 Temple Robotics team prepares for NASA Lunabotics competition Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.