Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Sweat-Powered Wearable Sensors Land NC State Researcher on Newsweek’s Inaugural ‘Greatest Disruptors’ List facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Author: Rachel Montesinos Jorro May 16, 2022 University Statement in Response to the Buffalo Shootings Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost Warwick Arden and Vice Provost Sheri Schwab share a message with the NC State community in response to the Buffalo shootings. Read the full message here. May 9, 2022 Krispy Kreme Challenge Meets $2 Million Commitment Park Scholars celebrate an achievement nearly two decades in the making. The funds directly impact North Carolina children and families at UNC Children's Hospital and NC State Park Scholars Children's Specialty Clinic. May 6, 2022 From Orientation to Graduation, Campus Community Centers Uplift Graduates Each spring, NC State’s campus community centers recognize and uplift the range of unique student identities during their own graduation celebrations. Mar 10, 2022 How Do You Find Emotional Equilibrium During a Pandemic? NC State experts discuss emotional regulation and building resilience during a crisis to better understand how we can sustain our emotional equilibrium while supporting those around us. Mar 10, 2022 ¿Cómo encuentra su equilibrio emocional durante una pandemia? Expertas de NC State hablan de la regulación emocional y la fortaleza durante una crisis para mejor entender cómo mantener nuestro equilibrio emocional mientras apoyamos a quienes nos rodean. Feb 18, 2022 Chancellor Woodson Shares Message on Updated Alma Mater On Feb. 18, 2022, the NC State Board of Trustees approved removing the word “Dixie” from the NC State Alma Mater and adding the word “Southern.” Chancellor Randy Woodson shares, “Making this change is simply the right thing to do”. Read the full message here. Feb 3, 2022 Chancellor Woodson on Honoring and Celebrating Black History Month NC State Chancellor Randy Woodson shares a message with the community about the importance of Black History Month and the ways to get engaged in exploring and celebrating Black history. Read the full message here. Read the full message here. Jan 27, 2022 NC State Launches Menstrual Equity Initiative Chancellor Randy Woodson announces a one-year pilot program to provide access to free menstrual products in select women’s and single-occupant, gender-neutral restrooms on main campus as well as Centennial Campus. Read the full message here. Dec 21, 2021 Chancellor Woodson Responds to NCAA/IARP Decision NC State Chancellor Randy Woodson addresses the university community in statement following the NCAA’s decision on the alleged violations in NC State’s men’s basketball program in the 2015-16 and 2016-17 seasons. Read the full message here. Dec 15, 2021 Sweat-Powered Wearable Sensors Land NC State Researcher on Newsweek’s Inaugural ‘Greatest Disruptors’ List Newsweek recognized Amay J. Bandodkar for his work on wearable battery-free sensors and skin-friendly wearable batteries. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.