Skip to main content Giving News Menu Close Stories of Impact Podcast Video Gift Announcements Featured Series Donor Recognition Giving Home News facebook twitter linked in email Stories of Impact Podcast Video Gift Announcements Featured Series Donor Recognition Giving Home Give Now News Published on May 10, 2022 A Perfect Circle Park Scholar Loujain Al Samara ’22 pursued a broad range of experiences during her four years at NC State, and she graduates this May with a new understanding of what she has learned, how she… Published on May 10, 2022 Weaving a Bright Future Private support enabled Lara Rabinowitz ’22 to study on campus and abroad during her time at NC State, all while combining seemingly different majors in seamless ways. Now, as one of the university’s most recent… Published on May 3, 2022 Leaving a Legacy: Dylan Inman ’22 Makes a Lasting Impression The political science and sociology double major is graduating this weekend and then off to Indianapolis to work for his fraternity, Theta Chi, as a growth specialist. But as an enthusiastic member of the Wolfpack,… Published on April 26, 2022 Ambassador for Optimism Goodnight Scholar Vitus Putra prepares to graduate this May with a degree in computer science. During his four years at NC State, he not only challenged himself academically but also grew as a person, helped… Published on May 3, 2022 Podcast: Planned Giving With Jennifer Peavey On this episode of the NC State Philanthropy Podcast, we’re talking with the College of Design’s Jennifer Peavey about how she plans to support the university through a special gift from her 401(k) plan following… Extraordinary Impact Across campus, philanthropy makes a difference for students, faculty, staff and beyond. More stories NC State Day of Giving Thank You for Doing the Extraordinary ‘Think and Do’ Campaign in Review NC State Day of Giving Arrives March 23 Our promise of access Every Member of the Wolfpack Deserves an Extraordinary Opportunity When we give first-generation students and students from low- to middle-income families the opportunity to succeed by removing financial barriers, the results are extraordinary. Just ask a few of our current students and alumni. Read more A legend in stone Learn the History Behind NC State’s Beloved Landmark The Memorial Belltower honors NC State alumni who died in World War I. This beloved site stands as an icon of our university and a symbol of our past, present and future. We’re celebrating its amazing story — and its next chapter. Read more Featured Series Each day, across NC State, students, faculty, researchers and staff encounter extraordinary experiences and opportunities made possible by donor support. Our students are thinking beyond boundaries, our alumni are making a difference and our professors are seeking ways to solve grand challenges. We’re telling the stories of what philanthropy makes possible at NC State. Explore our featured series Giving Home Campus Box 7474 Raleigh, NC 27695-7474 Email Us 919-515-7827 Campus Map Accessibility Advancement Services Giving News Make a Gift NC State Call Center NC State Website NC State University Foundation Policies Privacy Statement Share Your Story Strategic Plan Update Your Information University Advancement Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.