Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #alumni Media, Law & Policy VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Carlton Daniel Jr. G’16 fell in love with filmmaking at an early age. Growing up in Ohio, he spent a lot of his childhood at the local movie theater, browsing for videos at Blockbuster and dissecting films with his family…. Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… Health & Society Alumni Draw on Their Military Experience in Their Roles as Teachers Thursday, May 26, 2022, By Martin Walls Do military veterans make good teachers? This question was posed to two School of Education alumni—one a former U.S. Army pilot and the other a former Air Force systems and IT technician turned linguist—who both now teach in Upstate New… Media, Law & Policy Trustee and Alumnus Larry Kramer ’72 Honored With the Distinguished Achievement Award from SABEW Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Kelly Homan Rodoski Syracuse University Trustee and alumnus Larry Kramer ’72 has had a legendary career as a journalist, media executive and entrepreneur. His award-winning career included more than 20 years as a reporter and editor with the San Francisco Examiner and The… Campus & Community Daniel ’68, H’20 and Gayle D’Aniello Donate $10M to Invigorate Syracuse Abroad Florence Program, Expand Access for Students Monday, May 16, 2022, By Kathleen Haley In support of academic excellence and the University’s expansion as a global institution, Life Trustee Daniel D’Aniello ’68, H’20 and his wife, Gayle, are gifting $10 million toward significantly enhancing the Syracuse Abroad Florence program. The transformational nature of this… Campus & Community ‘You Have the Power to Have a Profound Impact’: ABC News’ David Muir Addresses Syracuse University’s Class of 2022 (Video) Monday, May 16, 2022, By John Boccacino As the Syracuse University community came together to celebrate the Class of 2022, it was only fitting that a Central New York native who has reported on some of the most powerful and consequential stories of our time came home… Campus & Community Investing in the Bedrock of Discovery: New Endowed Professorship in Quantum Science Wednesday, May 11, 2022, By News Staff Kathy Walters ’73 and her husband, Stan ’72, can look back over 50 years and easily track the impact Syracuse University had on their lives, but their newest gift to their alma mater looks far into the future, for generations… Campus & Community An Endowed Gift That Improves Prospects for the ‘Onlys’ Wednesday, May 11, 2022, By Eileen Korey Throughout much of her adulthood, Christine (Chris) A. Carona ’85 has either experienced or witnessed the “Onlys”—a term used to describe what it feels like to be the only woman or member of an unrepresented group in the room at… Campus & Community Commencement 2022: Here’s What You Need to Know Tuesday, May 10, 2022, By Kathleen Haley Graduates, it’s time to celebrate your accomplishments! Invite your family and friends, don your cap and gown, and meet you at the stadium for Commencement 2022. Syracuse University’s Commencement exercises will be held Sunday, May 15, beginning with the degree… Arts & Culture Innovator Lorrie Vogel ’88 to Deliver 2022 VPA Convocation Address Monday, May 9, 2022, By Erica Blust Innovator Lorrie Vogel ’88 will deliver the 2022 convocation address to bachelor’s and master’s degree candidates of the College of Visual and Performing Arts (VPA) at the college’s convocation ceremony on Saturday, May 14, at 7:30 p.m. in the stadium…. 12345 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.