Skip to main content calendar subscribe Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds YaleNews Explore Topics Alumni Arts & Humanities Business Campus & Community Environment Health & Medicine International Law Science & Technology Social Sciences In Focus In Memoriam Search form Search Environment Stories Udall Foundation honors three students for their environmental work May 31, 2022 Two undergraduates have been named Udall Scholars, and a third wins honorable mention. Creating a cap-and-trade market for carbon emissions in Gujarat, India May 27, 2022 A team including Yale researchers is collaborating to develop the first cap-and-trade market of its kind among emerging economies, outside of China. Spring Salvage and food drive redirect waste from Yale move-out May 25, 2022 Each year, the project collects and donates some 30 tons of belongings, giving items new life and diverting a mountain of material from the waste stream. Brave, persistent, nimble: YSE’s Class of 2022 is ready to defy the odds May 24, 2022 After facing “the toughest challenge in a generation,” the YSE Class of 2022 graduated May 23 with a unique sense of community and the will to lead. YSE student’s alternative leather goods startup wins sustainability prize May 23, 2022 Co-founded by Jinali Mody ’23 M.E.M, Aatma Leather will manufacture plant-based leather products from fruit and crop waste. YSE ’22: Lovinia Reynolds is headed home to fight for climate justice May 20, 2022 Returning to her native Brooklyn, Lovinia Reynolds is graduating from YSE with an eye on climate justice in the largest city in the United States. Peabody summer camps — register now! May 20, 2022 Does your middle-schooler love to explore the world around them? Give them an unforgettable experience in the Yale Peabody Museum’s exciting summer program. YSE ’22: Kyle Lemle’s love of forests guides his work on climate change May 20, 2022 Whether leading climate protests, fighting for Indigenous land rights, or working at Yale-Myers, Kyle Lemle is keeping his focus on the importance of forests. YSE welcomes back Classes of 2020, 2021 for alumni commencement celebration May 20, 2022 Nearly 100 graduates returned to campus with family and friends for an in-person celebration, which included ceremonies at Old Campus and Kroon Courtyard. What can international climate change agreements actually achieve? May 18, 2022 Yale economist Giovanni Maggi discusses how climate change could affect future generations, and how international cooperation may or may not meet the challenge. Show More Articles Search Environment Yale Browse Archives Contact Us For the Media It’s Your Yale Apply to Yale Give to Yale Managed by the Office of Public Affairs & Communications Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy · Accessibility at Yale Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds Yale on Instagram