Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Meet Sachelle Ford facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: We Are the Wolfpack May 19, 2022 The Gift of a Student’s Trust Monica Osburn is executive director of the Counseling Center, where thousands of students turn each year to find help with anxiety, depression and other problems. Dec 2, 2021 20 Years of Extending the Reach of Education Kay Zimmerman, the associate vice provost for marketing and partnership development at DELTA, is retiring after two decades dedicated to online and distance learning. Jun 9, 2021 Computer Scientist Wins UNC System Award Veronica Catete is the first NC State staff member to win the award that recognizes exemplary service to both campus and community. Feb 26, 2021 Leading With Intention As the new director of NC State's African American Cultural Center, angela gay-audre sets out to carve a fresh path for its future. Dec 16, 2020 Job Creator, Community Builder Tom White’s work in the Office of External Affairs, Partnerships and Economic Development is helping create opportunity across North Carolina. Feb 20, 2020 Meet Locksmith Jeff Thomas The locksmith and his colleagues handle broken locks, stuck doors and other emergencies so that faculty, staff and students can keep moving through the hallways, offices and rooms at NC State. Jan 6, 2020 Moving Forward Together: 5 Questions With GLBT Center Director Jonathan McCorey A former pastor and self-described mystic emerged from an evangelical background to serve a diverse population of students at the state's largest university. Nov 14, 2019 Meet Benita Womack The University Housekeeping employee — and beloved member of the College of Veterinary Medicine community — 'strives for perfection' in all she does. Jul 24, 2019 Meet Frank Perry The law enforcement veteran embraces a unique opportunity to help prevent innocent people from being incarcerated. Jul 10, 2019 Meet Randy Lait The food service trailblazer elevates NC State Dining — winning the industry’s top honor along the way — through ingenuity, determination, a little elbow grease and the help of an ‘amazing, hard-working’ staff. Jun 13, 2019 Meet Donna McGalliard﻿ NC State’s new executive director of University Housing aims to make a ‘positive, lasting impact’ on the university’s students. May 15, 2019 Meet Matt Heater One of 10 transportation officers at NC State, Heater helps monitor nearly 20,000 parking spaces on campus. Mar 21, 2019 Meet Lilian Hsiao The award-winning scientist is breaking new ground for women in engineering. Dec 12, 2018 Meet Sachelle Ford With more than a decade of research, teaching and student development experience in African-American and African Diaspora cultures, Sachelle Ford joins NC State as assistant director of the African American Cultural Center. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.