UT Wordmark Primary UT Wordmark Formal Shield Texas UT News Camera Chevron Close Search Copy Link Download File Hamburger Menu Time Stamp Open in browser Load More Pull quote Cloudy and windy Cloudy Partly Cloudy Rain and snow Rain Showers Snow Sunny Thunderstorms Wind and Rain Windy Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter email alert map calendar bullhorn Skip to content ↓ Information and resources related to COVID-19 Protect Texas Together Close Banner The University of Texas at Austin May 31, 2022 UT News State Impact Navigation Search Close Navigation UT News News Opinions Series UT Stories: COVID-19 What Starts Here Campaign Stories UT Research Science & Technology Health & Wellness Arts & Humanities Education & Leadership Business & Economy Campus & Community Policy & Law For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Experts Guide Pitch Form Archive UT Austin on Twitter UT Austin on Instagram UT Austin on Facebook UT Austin on LinkedIn Search for content on UT News Search Button Changing Your World Longhorns Working for a Vibrant Texas A Partnership Between #ChangingYourWorld From health care to engineering, traffic relief to ant control, UT students, alumni and faculty members are serving the state and creating a more vibrant Texas. Read More about Change Steven Santoyo, '19 Major: Communication Studies, Pre-Law Steven Santoyo wants to bring out the best in young Texans. Read More about Steven Mirka Mendez, '20 Major: Petroleum Engineering Education and Energy: Two things Mirka will never take for granted. Read More about Mirka Nathaniel Briggs, '20 Major: Aerospace Engineering Nathaniel Briggs is planning a life in defense, service and teaching. Read More about Nathaniel Kavya Rajesh, '20 Major: Chemistry Honors/Pre-Med Future doctor Kavya Rajesh wants to give organ recipients more time. Read More about Kavya UT is collaborating with the U.S. Army Futures Command to give soldiers the tools they need. Karan Jerath, '19 Major: Petroleum Engineering Business-oriented and environmentally minded, Karan is already serving Texas. Read More about Karan Jacob Vines, '19 Major: Kinesiology Jacob wants to change the world with breakthroughs in neurological therapy. Read More about Jacob Kelsey Mumford , '19 Major: Nursing Honors, Biology Kelsey wants to change your world with policies that prevent illness. Read More about Kelsey Anastasiya Byelousova, '20 Major: Plan II Honors Anastasiya is traveling across the world to search for solutions to a surprisingly big problem in Texas — maternal mortality. Read More about Anastasiya UT scientists are all in for the fight against crazy ants. Landon Hackley, '20 Major: Biomedical Engineering, Pre-med This is what happens when an engineer, a future surgeon, and a social entrepreneur come together. Read More about Landon Zeyi Lin, BS '18 Major: Electrical and Computer Engineering Helping Texans get home sooner is his passion. Read More about Zeyi Regan Preston, '19 Major: Communications Studies Showing high school students the value of college is her passion. Read More about Regan Marwan Madi, '20 Major: Electrical and Computer Engineering Bringing new technology to agriculture is Marwan’s innovation. Read More about Marwan UT Austin and the VETTED Foundation are strengthening the private sector with our nation’s military talent. Emmalie Berkovsky, BS ’17, Dell Med ’21 Major: Chemical Engineering/ Doctor of Medicine Growing up in a small town has many perks, but world-class medical care isn’t always one of them. That is why Dell Med student Emmalie Berkovsky plans to return to her hometown of Shiner to serve the community she loves. Read More about Emmalie Andrea Chee, BS ’18 Major: Speech Communication El Paso’s Andrea Chee wants Texans with speech challenges to succeed. “Communication is important,” she says. “It’s the foundation of everything we do.” Read More about Andrea Alejandra Ortega, BS ’15 Major: Applied Learning and Development In her second year on the job, Alejandra Ortega was named Houston’s Secondary Teacher of the Year. Here’s why. Read More about Alejandra Researchers at UT's Bureau of Economic Geology are understanding the West Texas earthquake problem. They are finding the causes to help lessen future impact on Texans. Ricky Cooks, ’21 Major: Business Honors and Government Ricky Cooks, a student in UT’s McCombs School of Business, wants to use his degree to build the economy of Texas and lift local communities. Read More about Ricky Janelle Chavez, ’19 Major: Biology Biology major Janelle Chavez ventured to Austin for her education and plans to return to the Valley to improve health care. Read More about Janelle Liam Harlan, ’19 Major: Chemical Engineering Liam Harlan wants to use data to fast-track advances in chemical engineering. Because the state of Texas has a first-class research university, this valedictorian didn’t have to leave Texas to get the experience a top researcher needs. Read More about Liam Researchers at UT’s Marine Science Institute are strengthening the gamefish population along the Texas coast. Impact Across Texas From interaction with thought-leading professors to collaboration with their brilliant peers, students at The University of Texas at Austin are given everything they need to make a difference in their community. Explore how they’ll be #changingyourworld for the better by hovering or clicking on the pins below. Subscribe to the TEXAS Newsletter UT Austin on Twitter UT Austin on Instagram UT Austin on Facebook UT Austin on LinkedIn UT News Home For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Experts Guide News Archive Pitch Form UT Austin Home Site Policies Web Privacy Policy Emergency Information Web Accessibility Policy Disability Resources © The University of Texas at Austin 2022