Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Columbia faculty, students, and staff are on the cutting edge of advancements in all fields and their work is thus justly awarded and recognized. Below, find recent accomplishments and milestones as well as bi-monthly lists of recent awards. Want your accomplishment to be included? Email [email protected]. Want these announcements in your inbox? Subscribe to Columbia News newsletters. SPOTLIGHT Four Columbians Win Guggenheim Fellowships Columbia’s 2022 Truman Scholars 14 Columbia University Affiliates Awarded Fulbright U.S. Student Grants Recent Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 From science to engineering, writing to social sciences, here are the Columbians who received awards recently. Awards & Milestones Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 One of four mid-career researchers selected, Zelevinsky will use the $2 million award to advance the use of molecules to study fundamental science. Layla Faraj (BC'25) wrote the winning essay of The New York Times Modern Love College Essay Contest. Photo courtesy Layla Faraj. Awards & Milestones National Academy of Sciences Elections, a 'Modern Love' Essay Contest Winner, Faculty Awards May 18, 2022 From science to engineering, writing to social sciences, here are the Columbians who received awards recently. Awards & Milestones 2022 World Food Prize Awarded to Columbia Climate Scientist Cynthia Rosenzweig May 05, 2022 Climatologist and agronomist Cynthia Rosenzweig has been named the 2022 World Food Prize Laureate for her pioneering work in modeling the impact of Alma Mater Awards & Milestones AAAS Elections, Statistics Fellows, and More Columbians Honored May 04, 2022 From science to engineering, writing to social sciences, here are the Columbians who received awards recently. Class of 2022 National Academy of Sciences members (clockwise, left to right): Alfred Aho, Michael Harris, Mario Small, and Toniann Pitassi. Awards & Milestones Four Columbians Elected to the National Academy of Sciences May 04, 2022 Computer scientists Alfred Aho and Toniann Pitassi, mathematician Michael Harris, and sociologist Mario Small join this year’s class of new members Top, from left: Panagiota Daskalopoulos, Thomas A. DiPrete, and Saidiya Hartman. Bottom, from left: Andreas Huyssens, Jennifer Lee, Mae Ngai. Awards & Milestones The American Academy of Arts and Sciences Inducts Six Columbia Faculty Members April 28, 2022 A group of diverse Columbians join other scholars, artists, scientists, and leaders in the public, nonprofit, and private sectors. Columbia professors (left to right): Zhezhen Jin, Bodhi Sen, and Tian Zheng. Awards & Milestones Three Columbians Named Institute of Mathematical Statistics Fellows April 27, 2022 Professors Zhezhen Jin, Bodhi Sen, and Tian Zheng are recognized for their contributions to statistics, and related applications in computing and m Cameron Adkins (CC’23), Mailman School of Public Health Dean Linda Fried, and James H Elliott II (GS’23). Awards & Milestones Two Truman Scholars from Columbia Named, Mailman Dean Fried Awarded George M. Kober Medal April 20, 2022 From science to engineering, writing to social sciences, here are the Columbians who received awards recently. The four Columbia scholars to win Guggenheim's this year are (from left to right): Hernan Diaz, Stathis Gourgouris, Rosalind Morris, and Christopher Peacocke. Awards & Milestones Four Columbians Win Guggenheim Fellowships April 13, 2022 Their proposed projects include a novel about literature and technology, a cultural investigation of listening, a multi-genre book focused on minin From left to right, top to bottom: Teddy Ajluni (CC’21), Dejavis Bosket (CC’19), Jacob Dahan (CC’21), Cayla Davis (CC’21), Sabrina Delafield (GS’21), Matthew Esche (CC’21), Zoe Ewing (CC’21), Ethan Fenlon (CC’21), Benjamin Goldstein (CC’20), Nick Manfred (CC’21), Zachary Marcone (CC’19), Allyssa Phelps (CC’21), Elle Swenson (CC’21), John Zhitong Wang (CC’21) Awards & Milestones 14 U.S. Fulbright Awards, 12 Simons Foundation Junior Research Fellows, and More Institutional Milestones April 06, 2022 From science to engineering and writing to social sciences, here are the Columbians who received awards recently. Awards & Milestones Mae Ngai Wins Bancroft Prize, Plus More Institutional Milestones March 23, 2022 From science to engineering, writing to social sciences, here are the Columbians who received awards recently. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next pageNext › Last pageLast » Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close