Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Report Search this site Submit Search Menu Students Faculty Staff About Search this site Submit Search Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies FSI | Shorenstein APARC — May 28, 2022 Korea Program’s 20th anniversary The Korea Program at Stanford marked its 20-year anniversary with a two-day conference that gathered leaders from academia, government, and the entertainment industry, including former United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and K-pop star SUHO. Read More Freeman-Spogli Institute for International Studies — January 18, 2022 The Ukraine-Russia crisis and the global struggle for democracy Former prime minister of Ukraine Oleksiy Honcharuk joins Michael McFaul on the World Class Podcast to analyze Russia’s aggression toward Ukraine and how it fits into Vladamir Putin’s bigger strategy to undermine democracy globally. Read More Freeman-Spogli Institute for International Studies — January 5, 2022 FSI scholars on the legacy of January 6 FSI scholars reflect on the ramifications the attack on the Capitol has had for domestic politics and international relations. Read More Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies — December 3, 2021 Testing community policing in a global context A study found that, in the absence of incentives and resources, community policing isn't a successful approach in the Global South where more systemic reforms are needed. Read More Stanford Health Policy — September 7, 2021 New Department of Health Policy launches Stanford Health Policy celebrated the launch of the new Department of Health Policy on Sept. 1, 2021, as well as SHP Director Douglas K. Owens being named inaugural chair of the 13th basic sciences department within the School of Medicine. Read More Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies — August 30, 2021 Kathryn Stoner named director of Center on Democracy, Development and the Rule of Law Stoner, a senior fellow at the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies, will lead the Center’s efforts to understand how countries can overcome poverty, instability and abusive rule to become prosperous societies. Read More Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies — July 27, 2021 Scott Sagan to co-lead Center for International Security and Cooperation Scott Sagan, an expert on nuclear strategy and the ethics of war, will direct the center along with FSI Senior Fellow Rodney Ewing. Read More Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies — June 30, 2021 Sherri Rose wins Spiegelman Award for contributions to public health statistics Sherri Rose has been honored with the Mortimer Spiegelman Award, the nation’s highest honor in biostatistics. Read More Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies — May 17, 2021 The importance of risk perceptions during pandemic shutdowns A new Stanford study suggests that people's perceptions of their own risks play an important role in their actions—and that shelter-in-place policies influence what they do, but not to the extent that some might think. Read More April 29, 2021 Swe Win, Editor-in-Chief of Myanmar Now, to Receive 2021 Shorenstein Journalism Award An esteemed investigative journalist and human rights defender, Swe Win is the recipient of the twentieth Shorenstein Award. He currently leads the editorial team of the independent news agency Myanmar Now from exile and his newsroom is in hiding. Read More « Older stories Stanford Report News and information for the Stanford community. COVID-19 info & resources Re-Approaching Stanford Contact Stanford News Subscribe to Stanford Report Stanford Report is sent automatically to all Stanford faculty, staff and students. Others are invited to subscribe to Stanford Report. Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.