Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / diversity diversity What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Type: News Story Associate Professor of Political Science Sean Yom recommends AAPI-themed media that sheds light on the AAPI experience. May 24, 2022 New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Type: News Story A new General Education course starting in spring 2023 in the College of Liberal Arts will concentrate on AAPI studies. May 24, 2022 Temple’s LGBTQIA+ seniors celebrated at Lavender Graduation Type: News Story Lavender Graduation celebrated LGBTQIA+ students in Temple’s Class of 2022. May 10, 2022 Meet 5 Temple professors who teach and research gender, sexuality and women’s studies Type: News Story Here are five professors at Temple who teach courses and conduct research on gender, sexuality and women’s studies. April 20, 2022 Temple faculty weigh in on Ketanji Brown Jackson’s Supreme Court confirmation Type: News Story Ketanji Brown Jackson is the first Black woman to be nominated and confirmed to the Supreme Court. Temple faculty provide context. April 8, 2022 Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Type: News Story STARS Computing Corps, headquartered at Temple, will use this new grant to expand its mission and initiatives April 5, 2022 How would a paid maternity leave policy benefit families? Type: News Story A paid family leave policy would benefit not just birthing mothers and their children, but fathers and adoptive parents. March 22, 2022 Karyn Olivier reveals Black history through her art Type: News Story The Temple University professor reflects on a career of examining and celebrating Black history through her work. March 17, 2022 Temple sees record application numbers for upcoming fall semester Type: News Story A record number of prospective students have applied to be part of Temple this fall. March 15, 2022 Library exhibit highlights staff picks from various collections Type: News Story Charles Library’s Special Collections Research Center staff selected material for the What’s Great, New, Next? exhibit. March 14, 2022 Diversifying the libraries’ archives to document the underrepresented Type: News Story Margery Sly, director of special collections, ensures Temple’s libraries continue to build inclusive archives. March 3, 2022 Want Black coaches? Get more Black managers Type: News Story President Wingard discusses how diverse representation in coaching requires diverse representation in leadership. February 15, 2022 Striving for diversity, equity and inclusion in the arts Type: News Story Linda Earle, professor of practice in fine arts management, explains how institutions and artists are pushing for cultural equity. February 14, 2022 Boyer graduate receives a prestigious award for research on New Orleans and Philadelphia jazz Type: News Story Fareed Simpson-Hankins returns to his roots in the Community Music Scholars Program and shares his success. February 10, 2022 International students share how they ring in Lunar New Year Type: News Story Students from China, Indonesia and South Korea talk about their Lunar New Year celebrations. January 31, 2022 CLA alumnus and activist named a 2022 Marshall Scholar Type: News Story Osimiri Sprowal is one of only 41 students chosen for the scholarship this year. January 28, 2022 Things to do for Black History Month Type: News Story How to celebrate the contributions of Black Americans to society at Temple, in person and virtually. January 27, 2022 $1.3 million grant awarded for construction of Center for Anti-racism Research Type: News Story State Rep. Malcolm Kenyatta, KLN ’12, awards $1.3 million grant for the construction of the university’s new Center for Anti-racism Research. January 26, 2022 Sneaker-cleaning entrepreneur raises the bar for students at Fox Type: News Story Cecil B. Moore Scholar Cory Matthews plans to get his master’s in business by the age of 22. January 17, 2022 Temple alumna receives accolades for inclusive lipstick line Type: News Story Pound Cake, a cosmetics company founded by Temple alumna Camille Bell, offers a line of lipstick made for diverse lip tones. January 17, 2022 Four books to read for MLK Day Type: News Story Professor of Journalism Linn Washington shares a recommended reading list for Martin Luther King Jr. Day. January 13, 2022 Celebrating the legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. with events on MLK Day Type: News Story How to get involved with MLK Day events at Temple and in Philadelphia. January 11, 2022 Meet Temple’s new associate professors in the Department of Africology and African American Studies Type: News Story Ifetayo Flannery, Kimani Nehusi, Reynaldo Anderson and Nah Dove bring their expertise to the Department of Africology and African American Studies. December 14, 2021 MacArthur ‘genius grant’ winner Ibram X. Kendi shares how his time at Temple helped shape him Type: News Story A conversation with the bestselling author of "How to Be an Antiracist." December 14, 2021 A new mural gives high school students the opportunity to show what fighting inequality means to them Type: News Story Reducing inequality through art November 12, 2021 Pages 1 2 3 4 5 next › last » Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.