Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links University of Miami Division of University Communications Office of Media Relations Miller School of Medicine Communications Hurricane Sports UM Media Experts Emergency Preparedness Home Search News@TheU Explore Topics Latest Headlines Academics Arts and Humanities People and Community Research University All Topics A to Z Related Links Subscribe to Daily Newsletter Social Networks For the Media Find University Experts Contact Us Life@TheU News and Info People and Culture Benefits and Discounts More Life@TheU Topics About Life@the U Connect and Share Events All Events Faculty and Staff Events Student Events TheU Creates (Arts and Culture Events) Undergraduate Students: Important Dates and Deadlines Submit an Event Miami Magazine News@TheU Life@TheU Events Miami Magazine More News Sites Admissions Alumni College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering DCIE Frost School of Music Miami Herbert Business School Miller School of Medicine School of Architecture School of Communication School of Education and Human Development School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science School of Nursing and Health Studies The Graduate School Student Affairs Search News@TheU Explore Topics Latest Headlines Academics Arts and Humanities People and Community Research University All Topics A to Z Related Links Subscribe to Daily Newsletter Social Networks For the Media Find University Experts Contact Us Life@TheU News and Info People and Culture Benefits and Discounts More Life@TheU Topics About Life@the U Connect and Share Events All Events Faculty and Staff Events Student Events TheU Creates (Arts and Culture Events) Undergraduate Students: Important Dates and Deadlines Submit an Event Miami Magazine More News Sites Admissions Alumni College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering DCIE Frost School of Music Miami Herbert Business School Miller School of Medicine School of Architecture School of Communication School of Education and Human Development School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science School of Nursing and Health Studies The Graduate School Student Affairs UM NEWS HOME Home Stories 2018 10 Playing and teaching from the heart AAA Playing and teaching from the heart Music librarian Nancy Zavac teaches Music Bibliography (MCY 728) at the Weeks Music Library. Photo: Brittney Bomnin / University Communications By Brittney Bomnin 10-19-2018 Music librarian Nancy Zavac teaches Music Bibliography (MCY 728) at the Weeks Music Library. Photo: Brittney Bomnin / University Communications Playing and teaching from the heart By Brittney Bomnin 10-19-2018 In this series highlighting the lesser-known facets of University of Miami faculty and staff, get to know Weeks Music Librarian Nancy Zavac and how she spends her time away from the U. Nancy Zavac, head of the Marta and Austin Weeks Music Library, has served as a resource to the students and faculty of the UM Frost School of Music for the last four decades. Zavac began working at the library while obtaining a Masters in Musicology at UM while simultaneously completing a library science degree remotely—pre-internet—from Florida State University. She worked first as a library assistant and then as a music cataloger, learning much from her time working with music librarian Elsie Fardig. Zavac says working with students is her favorite part of the job and has spent some of her time at UM in the classroom introducing students to music sources, teaching them how to evaluate and cite these sources in research papers and how to write a research proposal. But her background in music began in grade school in the small Western Massachusetts town of Adams—named after Samuel Adams—when she picked up her first instrument, the accordion. These days you can find Zavac attending concerts, musicals, and operas with her husband, Jeff Zavac, who is an accomplished jazz musician, or visiting family in Poland, her father’s home country. She believes music “truly is the universal language” and enjoys performing with her husband. Read our Q and A with Zavac to learn more. What instrument(s) do you play? My first instrument was the accordion. I learned to play because I wanted to take after my father, who was self-taught. I began taking private lessons at the age of eight and continued through high school. After then, I chose music education as my major at Carlow College in Pittsburgh, PA and studied piano and organ. How did you and your husband Jeff begin playing music and what’s it like performing together? I met my husband Jeff in 1977. We were both graduate students at the University of Miami and volunteers for the music groups at St. Augustine Church—I played the organ and Jeff played flute. Jeff is an accomplished jazz musician who plays saxophone, flute, clarinet, and piano. He lost his sight at birth due to complications but says it’s been his greatest blessing because he’s had to work harder to achieve his goals. In addition to playing at clubs and restaurants he has performed for senior citizen at assisted living facilities, such as the Miami Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged, and I’ve joined him at times with my accordion. It’s a great joy to play music together! The accordion and the saxophone blend well together. I grew up playing polkas and you can’t be sad listening to polkas! Our next performance is this Sunday at an Oktoberfest dinner from 5 to 7 p.m. at Concordia Lutheran Church. At work or among your circle of friends, what are you known for? My laugh! What’s the most interesting thing about you that we wouldn’t learn from your resume alone? I am a breast cancer survivor. I have known close friends and family members who have had cancer and always worried about getting cancer. I went through surgery, chemo, and radiation from Oct. 2011 to May 2012. Through this experience I met a wonderful group of survivors and caregivers and I still participate in the support group known as Your Bosom Buddies. What’s the last book you’ve read or film you’ve seen? Jeff and I recently saw “Pick of the Litter” at the Cosford Cinema. It was a wonderful story about how Guide Dogs for the Blind, a guide dog school, prepares their puppies for this important role. As for books, I tend to read fiction. One book that impressed me recently is “The Other Einstein,” by Marie Benedict. Editor’s note: Know anyone with an interesting hobby or passion project? Share your story ideas with us at LifeatTheU@miami.edu. Faculty Faculty Affairs Learn more Office of the Provost Information and resources People Search Browse people at UM Faculty Events Borwse upcoming events Faculty Senate Learn more topics: People and Community University Faculty Faculty Faculty Affairs Learn more Office of the Provost Information and resources People Search Browse people at UM Faculty Events Borwse upcoming events Faculty Senate Learn more University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami News Sub Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search MyUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback