retweet bullhorn reply info flickr tumblr vimeo reddit podcast angle-down angle-left angle-right angle-up ban hamburger book bookmark bug caret-down caret-left caret-right caret-up chain check check-circle chevron-down chevron-left chevron-right chevron-up circle circle-o clone close download-cloud code download ellipsis envelope warning external-link eye eye-slash facebook github google-plus heart heart-o home info-circle instagram linkedin lock medium minus-circle send pause-circle play-circle plus-circle question-circle quote-left quote-right rss-square search share-alt slack snapchat ticket twitter wheelchair youtube Skip to main content Division of Student Affairs MENU Header Menu Google Translate/En Español Search Search Programming New Student Orientation Longhorn Welcome First Generation Living Learning Community Horns Helping Horns Longhorn TIES RISE Off Campus Longhorn Welcome Spring Longhorn Welcome Fall Longhorn Welcome Resources Campus Safety Conduct Expectations Campus Services Academic Resources Getting Involved UT Lingo About Contact Us Mission and Vision Social Media Guidelines Student Leadership Positions COVID-19 (Coronavirus) Updates Breadcrumb Home First Generation Living Learning Community First Generation Living Learning Community photo of first generation students in front of the tower The First-Generation Living Learning Community The First-Generation Living Learning Community provides an inclusive and engaging living environment for new Longhorns, who identify as first-generation (first-gen) college students. This community is designed to build a support system among first-gen students, in addition to celebrating each student’s background and successes. It assists in bridging the “two worlds” of school life and home while increasing the visibility of first-generation college students on the UT Austin campus. Living Learning Community The First-Generation Living Learning Community is a home for students who identify as a first-generation college student, meaning that neither of the students’ parent or guardian has a four-year degree or higher from a college or university within the U.S. The space is also reserved for new, first-time-in-college students. All first-generation students are encouraged to apply, given the wide range of diversity and educational backgrounds that each student brings to the community. Diverse experiences can enrich discussions, learning, and aid in preparing future leaders for a globally diverse workforce. View frequently asked questions about the First-Generation Living Learning Community. Program Elements Students part of the First-Generation Living Learning Community will participate with the following: Live in the Jester West Residence Hall with the rest of the students in the First-Generation LLC, to create peer connections and build community. Attend bi-weekly meetings and additional programming arranged by New Student Services facilitator. Meetings focus on student strengths, grit & resiliency, academic success strategies, health & wellness, etc. Match and meet regularly with a UT Austin faculty/staff mentor who also identify as a first-generation college student. Engage in cultural experiences, service learning activities, and exclusive presentations by guest speakers. Location The First-Generation Living Learning Community will be located in Jester West Residence Hall. You may find the range of features and review amenities by visiting the Jester West Residence Hall webpage. Application Process To apply for the First-Generation Living Learning Community, students must first apply for a housing placement through the UT Housing Application. When you receive your Housing Contract, you may apply for the First-Generation Living Learning Community through the Contract. Application process will close end of the day of Sunday, May 8, 2022. Space is limited, so you are encouraged to complete both applications as early as possible! First-Gen LLC Projects: National First-Generation College Celebration Day First-Generation Campus Resources First-Generation Longhorns First-Generation Commitment Working Group I'm First Contact Us Kayleigh Damphousse Transition Coordinator Contact FacebookFind us on Facebook TwitterFind us on Twitter InstagramSee us on Instagram FacebookFind us on Facebook InstagramSee us on Instagram TwitterFind us on Twitter YoutubeSee us on Youtube Footer menu Contact About Us Orientation FAQs UT Austin Home Emergency Information Site Policies Web Accessibility Policy Web Privacy Policy Adobe Reader © The University of Texas at Austin 2022