WSU Cougar Head Logo Washington State University Give Apply Locations My WSU Give Apply Locations My WSU Close WSU Insider News and Information for Faculty, Staff, and the WSU Community Menu Close News News Categories Arts & Culture Awards & Achievements Benefits & Training Business & Economics Campus & Community Food & Agriculture Health & Medicine Politics & Society Reports & Updates Science & Technology University Affairs Veterinary Medicine Announcements Contact Us For Journalists Press Releases Tip Sheets COVID-19 Cannabis research Institutional Data Quick Facts Search Close April 25, 2022 New dean named for College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences By Seth Truscott, College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences Wendy Powers Wendy Powers, an experienced leader who guides statewide agricultural research and extension for the University of California division of Agriculture and Natural Resources, has been named the new dean of Washington State University’s College of Agricultural, Human, and Natural Resource Sciences. WSU Provost and Executive Vice President Elizabeth Chilton announced Powers’ selection today following a national search. Dean Powers will join the college, referred to at WSU by the acronym CAHNRS, on Aug. 15, 2022. “Dr. Powers draws from a deep well of experience in leading the land-grant mission,” said Provost Chilton. “She embodies that mission through her collaborative work with agricultural producers and research peers nationwide. Her demonstrated success in fostering academic excellence, resilient partnerships, and community engagement across many states makes her ideally suited to lead this college into the future.” Powers said she’s honored to be part of the CAHNRS story. “Discovery in this college touches all corners of Washington, and I am excited by the opportunity to harness that potential,” she said. “What’s really drawing me is the chance to make a difference for all Washingtonians by supporting advancements and sharing new ideas in agriculture, natural resources, and the human sciences.” Statewide partnership builder As the associate vice president for Agriculture and Natural Resources, Powers has led academic, research, and outreach programs for the University of California since 2016. She built partnerships within and beyond the university, overseeing county-based cooperative extension outreach, 12 statewide programs and institutes, and nine research and extension centers across California. Powers began her career as an assistant professor and extension specialist in animal science at Iowa State University, then moved to Michigan State University, where she served as a full professor in the departments of Animal Science and Biosystems and Agricultural Engineering, extension specialist, and director of environmental stewardship for animal agriculture in the College of Agriculture and Natural Resources. She was also the first director of the Agriculture and Agribusiness Institute for Michigan State University Extension. As a scientist, Powers linked research discovery with outreach to the livestock industry, providing knowledge and tools to help producers reduce their environmental impacts while staying competitive and meeting growing consumer demand. She holds a doctorate in animal science and a master’s degree in dairy science from the University of Florida, and a bachelor’s degree in animal science from Cornell University. Powers replaces former Dean André-Denis Wright, who led the college from 2018 to 2021. Interim Dean Richard T. Koenig has overseen CAHNRS since mid-2021. “On behalf of the university, I share my deep gratitude to Dr. Koenig for his stewardship and leadership of CAHNRS,” Chilton said. “He has been a steady, positive force for the college during an era of change, and I wish him great success as he returns to chair the Department of Crop and Soil Sciences. “I also thank all of the candidates, as well as all faculty, staff, and agricultural partners on the search committee for their efforts in bringing new and inspiring leadership to CAHNRS,” she added. The CAHNRS mission CAHNRS shares WSU research and discovery with Washington through an expansive state presence, with 12 schools and departments, three Extension Program Units, four Research and Extension Centers, and Extension offices serving 39 counties as well as the Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation. Innovation in CAHNRS creates healthy communities, families, and children, sustains the economy and the environment, and continually advances the science and practice of agriculture, helping feed a growing world populace. In fiscal year 2021, CAHNRS secured research funding exceeding $83 million, accounting for more than 23 percent of WSU’s total extramural research funding. Media Contacts Phil Weiler, 509-595-1708, phil.weiler@wsu.edu Categories: University Affairs university deans Next Story May 27, 2022 Emergency response trainings taking place on Pullman campus May 30–June 2 Local law enforcement and fire departments will meet on the WSU Pullman campus to conduct a series of training exercises May 30–June 2. Recent News May 27, 2022 Emergency response trainings taking place on Pullman campus May 30–June 2 Local law enforcement and fire departments will meet on the WSU Pullman campus to conduct a series of training exercises May 30–June 2. May 27, 2022 WSU appoints Danielle Hess executive director for policy and governance The university’s top lawyer is taking a new systemwide role and will be replaced as division chief by an assistant attorney general who has worked alongside her since 2015. attorney general, Board of Regents, compliance, governance, policy By RJ Wolcott, WSU News & Media Relations May 27, 2022 WSU Insider will be back Tuesday The staff at WSU Insider hopes you make the most of your Memorial Day holiday. New postings will resume Tuesday. May 26, 2022 WSU experts: Washington monkeypox case cause for concern, not panic The now-confirmed case of monkeypox in the state should raise awareness of the virus, but it will not spread as easily as COVID-19, according to WSU infectious disease experts. By Sara Zaske, WSU News & Media Relations May 26, 2022 Stacy Pearson retiring at end of 2022 During her tenure as VP for finance and administration and CFO, WSU turned a $30 million annual operating deficit into a nearly $30 million surplus in 2020. A national search for her replacement will be conducted. administration, finance, WSU President Kirk Schulz By RJ Wolcott, WSU News & Media Relations May 26, 2022 Leadership changes in the Voiland College The Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture announced three new directors for the upcoming school year. By Tina Hilding, Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture Find More News Subscribe for more updates Subscribe to WSU Insider to receive free daily updates by email. University employees are automatically subscribed—no sign up is necessary. RecommendedFeatures WSU appoints Danielle Hess executive director for policy and governance The university’s top lawyer is taking a new systemwide role and will be replaced as division chief by an assistant attorney general who has worked alongside her since 2015. May 27, 2022 Emergency response trainings taking place on Pullman campus May 30–June 2 Local law enforcement and fire departments will meet on the WSU Pullman campus to conduct a series of training exercises May 30–June 2. May 27, 2022 Find More News Trending News Cougs in Space: Launching satellites and careers March 10, 2022 WSU Men’s Basketball bound for NIT semifinals March 24, 2022 Schulz spotlights recent successes during 2022 State of the University March 22, 2022 ‘Breaking Bad’ star to discuss how cerebral palsy helped shape his career March 22, 2022 FOR WSU CONTRIBUTORS Content guidelines WSU Insider Guidelines Press Releases Guidelines Announcements Guidelines Events Guidelines Submission Information Insider Submission Press Release Submission WSU Announcements Submission WSU Events Submission Additional Resources WSU Brand Guidelines WSU Editorial Style Guide WSU Podcasts Social Media Directory WSU News & Media Relations PO Box 641227, Pullman, WA 99164-1227 509-335-3581 wsunews@wsu.edu WSU Cougar Head Logo © Washington State University 2021 Access Policies MyWSU Follow WSU