Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community 5th Round of CUSE Grants Awards $510,000 to 31 Projects Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Diane Stirling Share awardsCollege of Engineering and Computer ScienceCUSE grantsfaculty researchFalk College of Sport and Human DynamicsOffice of ResearchresearchSchool of Information Studies The Office of Research is funding 31 CUSE grant projects this year in the fifth round of annual internal grants. The Collaboration for Unprecedented Success and Excellence (CUSE grants) program is dedicated to growing the Universitywide research enterprise, enhancing interdisciplinary collaborations and increasing both extramural funding and high-quality faculty scholarly output as well as boosting the University’s national and global research reputation. A total of $510,000 was awarded to this year’s selections. The 31 projects funded this year include the following: Innovative and Interdisciplinary Research Grants: 16 projects; awards are capped at $30,000 per grant. Good to Great Grants: Four projects; grants are capped at $30,000 per grant. Interdisciplinary Seminar Grants: Four projects; grants are capped at $10,000 each. Seed Grants: 17 projects; grants are capped at $5,000 each. The full list of recipients can be found on the Office of Research website. Grants Jumpstart External Funding “CUSE grants fund faculty to conduct early inquiry to establish further value and credibility for more comprehensive studies that can be funded by external resources,” says Gretchen Ritter, vice chancellor, provost and chief academic officer. “CUSE Grants support the important initial proving-ground and inquiry phase, allowing researchers to test early thinking with the goal of expanding their research.” That objective of the awards is aptly illustrated by a pair of research faculty whose CUSE grant work helped them earn subsequent National Science Foundation (NSF) project funding. Dessa Bergen-Cico, professor in the Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics, Asif Salekin, an assistant professor in the College of Engineering and Computer Science and subsequent success in securing four more years of research activity supported by a $736,000 grant from the NSF. Salekin, as principal investigator of the subsequent NSF grant, and Bergen-Cico are conducting extensive examination on recovery from opioid use disorder through the development of wearable physiological sensing technologies. These NSF-funded technologies will help identify predictors of craving and relapse risk while teaching participants to use mindfulness-based practices to manage cravings and reduce stress and relapse responses. Ramesh Raina, interim vice president for research, says, “Importantly, faculty from all degree-granting schools and colleges in the University are represented in the funded projects this year as either principal investigators or co-principal investigators. It is also significant that almost half of the awarded principal investigators are assistant professors, reflecting the program’s goal of supporting the research agendas of junior faculty members.” CUSE grants fund research and scholarly projects in a variety of disciplines and span applied sciences, social sciences, physical and life sciences, engineering, liberal arts, humanities, professional schools and creative arts. A new priority research area was added in 2022 recognizing the University’s commitment to diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility for projects that support, catalyze or promote research and scholarship on those issues and having societal impact. One of those projects awarded was the inter-school and interdisciplinary grant proposal, “Toward Social Justice Informatics: Transdisciplinary Approaches, Research Frameworks and Critical Pedagogies for Emerging Information Professionals in a Datafied World.” Its principal investigator is Jasmina Tacheva, assistant professor in the School of Information Studies. Co-principal investigators are Elizabeth Carter, assistant professor in the College of Engineering and Computer Studies, whose discipline is civil and environmental engineering; and iSchool assistant professors LaVerne Gray and Beth Patin, whose fields are library information science. The CUSE grant application and merit review process emulate practices of leading external sponsors. Each year, Syracuse University faculty serve as volunteer peer reviewers of submitted applications. This year, the program benefited from 44 peer reviewers vetting awards across 11 University units and 43 departments, centers and institutes. Participation in the peer review process can be as rewarding as applying to the intramural grant program, according to Raina. He cites feedback from one volunteer reviewer who indicated how the experience provided “a great way to gain an introduction to colleagues in different units across campus and the innovative and inspiring work they are doing.” For more information on the program, the application process or to express interest in serving as a future peer reviewer, visit the CUSE Grant Program webpage. Author Diane Stirling Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.