Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Life along the Charles from sunrise to sunset Bowling for values Campus & Community Life along the Charles from sunrise to sunset Campus & Community Life along the Charles from sunrise to sunset A runner passes the banks of the Charles River near MIT. Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographer Gazette photographers record the life teeming along the waterway on the day's margins By Rose Lincoln Harvard Staff Photographer DateDecember 3, 2020December 5, 2020 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn On a walk along the Charles River you might encounter an artist painting, a lone man running, or a woman meditating among the sweeping branches of a weeping willow tree. Look up and you’ll see bird formations sweeping across a pastel blue sky. On the water are paddle boarders and crew boats. Breaking the near-silence of the early morning are muffled shouts from motorboats to rowers. The Charles River, an 80-mile expanse of water, named for a former king of England — by the king himself — is prettiest as the sun sets and rises each day. At these hours, the river feels meditative and restorative, as the woman sitting cross-legged in the weeping willows has surely discovered. Bridges connect the Charles to Boston and Cambridge. From east to west the bridges are the Longfellow (or Salt and Pepper), the Mass. Ave., the BU, Weeks Footbridge, and the Anderson Bridge at Harvard. Countless more bridges stretch through 23 towns and cities ending in Hopkinton at the river’s source. Soon the bustling Anderson Bridge, which connects Harvard Yard and Harvard Square via JFK Street to the Harvard Stadium and Business School in Boston, will become even more so with the planned opening of the Science and Engineering Complex next fall. This river and its bridges, which we’ve traversed many times, have connected us, too. Through beauty in nature, exercise, and social interactions, we celebrate the Charles. At dusk, Boston College High School rowers return their boats to the Riverside Boat Club at Magazine Beach. The Charles River is the border between Boston and Cambridge. Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographer Every Saturday and Sunday on Magazine Beach, these Algerian friends play Pentanque, a bocce-like game that originated in Provence, France. Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographer Native Americans originally called the river Quinobequin, meaning bending river. A trio of rowers at dawn as seen from the Boston University Bridge. Foliage flourishes on the river’s edge. Photos by Rose Lincoln (left) and Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographers A heron searches for a morning snack at dawn. Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer Cormorants fly upriver across the morning sky. Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer The inspiration for The Standells’ 1966 hit “Dirty Water,” the river’s polluted past was memorialized in the lyrics, “Down by the banks of the River Charles / That’s where you’ll find me / Along with lovers, muggers, and thieves.” Rowers make their way by an overpass of graffiti and autumn foliage as seen from the BU Bridge. Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographer Since 1995, when the Environmental Protection Agency launched an ambitious effort to make it both fishable and swimmable, the Clean Charles River Initiative has dramatically improved water quality. Rowers at dawn as seen from the BU Bridge. Photos by Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographer The River Houses bask in morning light as walkers stroll past with a dog. Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer Autumn leaves surround a runner on the Boston side of the Charles as the sun begins its ascent. Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographer The Weeks Footbridge frames Dunster House at dusk. Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer Canada geese drift down the river at dusk alongside Harvard’s Dillon Field House. People come to the riverbank to watch the sunset. Photos by Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer Oft in sadness and in illness, I have watched thy current glide, Till the beauty of its stillness Overflowed me, like a tide. – Henry Wadsworth Longfellow from “To the River Charles” A runner sprints across the Eliot Bridge. Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer At dusk, rowers make their way back to the boathouses downriver. Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer Related Autumnal exposures: Colorful moments in passing Harvard photographer captures the beauty of the season Harvard, in the background Missing campus? Zoom can include images of favorite views. Here are some of ours ... A symphony of seasons Capturing the passing of time across Harvard’s campus The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Up Next Campus & Community Bowling for values Campus & Community Bowling for values “[Ethics] helped me develop an intellectual humility and understanding of the validity of other people’s perspectives, said Jillian Sharples ’21, founder and president of the Ethics Bowl. Photo by Aaron Ye