Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Features Student’s illustrations bring wildlife book to life May 18, 2022 Veterinary student Laura Donohue is blending her artistic talents and passion for animals in more than 100 illustrations for a new book on wildlife health and disease in conservation. Startups flourish in Cornell’s clean energy ecosystem May 2, 2022 Clean energy entrepreneurs and startups find an innovative, powerful ecosystem at Cornell that supports the transition to a sustainable, decarbonized economy. Cornell Varna fire volunteers protect, serve, learn April 13, 2022 The desire to help and connect to the local community has inspired four alumni and 33 students to join the Varna Volunteer Fire Company, with many students taking on leadership roles. Merlin Bird ID app identifies more than 450 bird species by sound April 12, 2022 You love beautiful bird song. But what birds are singing? The free Merlin Bird ID app has more than one way to help you find out. Around Cornell Student grants serve communities from New York to Ethiopia March 30, 2022 Students aim to reduce aviation emissions, support farmworkers and improve a New York animal shelter with the David M. Einhorn Center for Community Engagement’s Serve in Place awards. Chasing data: Astronomers race to explore ancient galaxies March 23, 2022 At a dizzying elevation in Chile, two astronomers had only hours left to collect data from light that had taken 11.5 billion years to reach Earth. Ukrainian veterinary student looks homeward March 10, 2022 Maryna Mullerman, a first-year veterinary student, left Ukraine on her own at age 15 to pursue her education in the U.S. Cornell had always been her dream school, she says. Glass blower crafts intricate creations for Cornell scientists March 2, 2022 Karl Termini designs, creates and repairs unique scientific glassware, saving departments time and money and ensuring researchers get exactly the equipment they need. New 3D body-mapping tech helps consumers, the environment February 23, 2022 The technology, developed in the Department of Human Centered Design, aims to improve the fit and design of clothing and increase the sustainability of online shopping. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON