Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette How to cope with baby formula shortage U.S. heart attack death rate among highest Health & Medicine How to cope with baby formula shortage Health & Medicine How to cope with baby formula shortage Experts believe it may take a while before baby formula production is fully restored. iStock by Getty Images What parents should know and do before the terror takes hold By Claire McCarthy Harvard Health Blog DateMay 17, 2022May 17, 2022 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Trending Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Harvard to award seven honorary degrees Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers It’s terrifying to think about not being able to feed your baby — and right now, with the baby formula shortage, parents all over the country are feeling exactly that terror. The supply chain for baby formula had been tenuous for some time, but when Abbott Pharmaceuticals recalled many of their formula products — and closed down their biggest production facility in the U.S. — it literally caused a formula crisis. Many store shelves are empty of baby formula, and it isn’t easy to find online, either. While formula companies and the government are working to restore the supply, it may take a while before it’s easy to buy a can of formula. In the meantime, here are some do’s and don’ts for parents who use formula. What parents should do during the formula shortage Try lots of different stores and websites. Most families are already doing this, but it’s worth saying. Put out the word to friends and family — the more people looking, the better. Check out social media. Many organizations, sites, and pages are offering information about where formula is available. Be willing to buy other brands besides your usual one, if your baby uses regular formula. It truly doesn’t matter, they are all remarkably similar. If your baby is on a specialized formula, check with your doctor as to which brands can be substituted. Only buy from reputable sites and sellers. You want to be sure that what you buy is the real thing. If you get formula through WIC or a medical supply company, call them to see if they can help. Call your doctor! This is particularly important if your child is on a specialized formula (in which case you absolutely must call them). But also call if you have any questions about what to give your baby and how to find it. What parents shouldn’t do during the formula shortage Don’t dilute your formula. Not only is diluted formula lacking in calories, but it can be dangerous. Don’t buy formula directly from other countries. It’s not regulated by the FDA and may not be safe. Don’t make your own formula. It may not be safe. Don’t give plant-based milks, except soy milk for older babies (10 months or older). Many plant-based milks, such as almond milk, do not have enough nutrition for babies. Don’t give juice instead of milk. It definitely doesn’t have the nutrition babies need. Don’t hoard formula if you find it. As tempting as it might be, think of all the other families in the same boat you are. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends buying no more than a 10- to 14-day supply. To read the full story This is an excerpt from an article that appears on the Harvard Health Publishing website. Claire McCarthy is a senior faculty editor as Harvard Health Publishing, a primary care pediatrician at Boston Children’s Hospital, and an assistant professor of pediatrics at Harvard Medical School. Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Trending Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Harvard to award seven honorary degrees Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers Up Next Health & Medicine U.S. heart attack death rate among highest Health & Medicine U.S. heart attack death rate among highest The findings point to gaps in applying universally accepted standards of cardiac care. Olga Kononenko/Unsplash