Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeNews Home /PR /Plants help clean up oil, Tulane study finds Plants help clean up oil, Tulane study finds April 29, 2015 12:00 PM Print to PDF Barri Bronston bbronst@tulane.edu 504-314-7444 wetlands.jpg Snails on salt marsh cordgrass that has been oiled. Photo by Jordan Hoffmann A team of Tulane biologists has found that oil-eating bacteria grew rapidly within salt marsh cordgrass following the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill. “This grass is the foundational plant in northern gulf Coast salt marshes affected by the Deepwater Horizon oil spill,” says Sunshine Van Bael, assistant professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology. The plants form a first line of defense against coastal erosion. In this study published in PLOS ONE, Van Bael and her colleagues, postdoctoral researcher Demetra Kandalepas and Michael Blum, associate professor of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, focused on the little-known communities of fungi and bacteria living symbiotically within these plants. Plants have been used for pollution cleanup for years and will be useful in the future, according to Van Bael. “You go to a polluted site and find the best plants to grow there to help clean up pollutants. Our goal is to figure out the best bacteria to partner with plants to enable them to increase the speed of oil remediation,” says Van Bael. “These kinds of symbioses evolved over millions of years, and they were probably important for plants even to make it onto land,” she says. “Endophytes, or bacteria and fungi living within plant tissues, have growth-promoting properties, or they can produce hormones or metabolites that help plants deal with stresses like drought or salinity.” Research has shown that endophyte communities change when plants experience environmental stress, and this may affect the plants’ ability to survive. The Tulane team collected plants from sites that had been oiled and from nearby areas without oil. “We found a big shift in the endophyte community in plants that grew up with oil,” says Van Bael. “The fungi normally found in leaves were nearly gone, and in the roots there was a shift toward more species of bacteria known for breaking down oil.” Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Footer - Right Column Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University