Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / Boyer College of Music and Dance / Center for the Performing and Cinematic Arts Boyer College of Music and Dance Jazz trumpeter Terell Stafford is focused on mentoring the next generation of musicians Type: News Story Temple professor Terell Stafford’s career has included a Grammy award, chart-topping albums and collaborations with jazz greats. April 12, 2022 Kenny Garrett, a Grammy award-winning musician, performs at Temple Type: News Story In February, Temple and WRTI hosted a free live community jazz concert at the Temple Performing Arts Center. March 4, 2022 Boyer graduate receives a prestigious award for research on New Orleans and Philadelphia jazz Type: News Story Fareed Simpson-Hankins returns to his roots in the Community Music Scholars Program and shares his success. February 10, 2022 Two Owls find a way to assist the Afghan people at the Philadelphia airport Type: News Story Translation for resettling Afghans as an act of community care. December 14, 2021 The Temple University Jazz Band celebrates the legacy of jazz great Jimmy Heath Type: News Story The band’s new album honors luminaries including Heath, John Chaney and Bootsie Barnes. October 15, 2021 Exposing more African Americans to ballet Type: News Story Through her ballet company, Chanel Holland, BYR ’12, changed the perception of what it means to be a ballet dancer. June 29, 2021 In a class of her own Type: News Story Alumna Nicole Jordan is the Philadelphia Orchestra’s first Black female member. June 22, 2021 Temple University Opera Theater’s 'The Turn of the Screw' in pictures Type: News Story See a gallery of photos from the production, which was adapted to meet the safety restrictions imposed by the coronavirus pandemic. December 2, 2020 All together now: The making of Temple University Jazz Band's 'Covid Sessions' Type: News Story Produced during the pandemic and assembled from individual recordings students made separately, the album is one of the first of its kind. November 16, 2020 A new dance show reimagines performances for the pandemic era Type: News Story Christina Castro-Tauser’s show "Connecting the Distance" is part walking tour, part virtual dance showcase. September 21, 2020 Owls at the DNC, RNC Type: News Story Get to know the Temple alumni, students and faculty involved with the recent Democratic and Republican National Conventions. September 9, 2020 Temple violist completes master’s degree on a high note thanks to Philadelphia Orchestra Type: News Story June 18, 2020 The OwlTogether Arts Festival Online brings Temple’s artistic community together Type: News Story The Center for Performing and Cinematic Arts will host an online showcase of student work. April 24, 2020 Music to our ears Type: News Story Two Boyer faculty members aim to lift our spirits through live-streamed concerts. March 20, 2020 Temple Water Week brings together arts and science on Main Campus Type: News Story Professors, students build week of performances, talks, service work to bring awareness to the world’s estimated 2.2 billion people without access to clean water. March 11, 2020 Boyer student lifts her father’s spirits with music Type: News Story Allie McCrea’s video of herself singing with her father from his hospital bed went viral. February 10, 2020 Student and faculty musicians are Grammy hopefuls Type: News Story “Love, A Beautiful Force,” penned by superstar composer and arranger Vince Mendoza, features the Temple University Studio Orchestra. January 17, 2020 Temple partners with Philadelphia Orchestra on 2019 China tour Type: News Story The tour is one of many milestones in the university’s long a fruitful partnership with the China, launched 40 years ago. June 17, 2019 High note: Music major’s crossword puzzle lands in New York Times Type: News Story Temple University undergraduate Ellis Hay’s attention to detail is an invaluable skill in composing music and crossword puzzles. March 26, 2019 Temple professors win coveted Guggenheim Fellowships Type: News Story Two Temple professors, Jeremy Schipper and Mark Franko, recently won Guggenheim Fellowships to pursue academic research. April 24, 2018 Boyer students pay tribute to Frank Sinatra on new record Type: News Story Students collaborated with prestigious faculty soloists and Grammy-winning arranger Michael Abene on the new album. June 21, 2017 Next stop: Master’s in violin performance at Boyer Type: News Story After four years of callused fingers and international awards, one senior is ready to push himself even further at Boyer. May 10, 2017 The healing power of music Type: News Story Music therapy has been shown to have a beneficial effect on anxiety, fatigue and pain in people with cancer. December 13, 2016 The keystrokes of life Type: News Story Sara Davis Buechner, pianist and associate professor at Boyer, is an individual of many lives—her newest being a Temple Owl. November 17, 2016 Monumental dance Type: News Story Anywhere, choreographed by Kathy Westwater and commissioned by the Department of Dance, makes its debut at Temple this month. September 13, 2016 Pages 1 2 3 4 next › last » Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.