Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane Releases News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeNews Home /PR Tulane Newsroom Tulane Releases News Releases, On Campus Tulane University opens Anne Rice’s complete archive for research April 11, 2022 The complete archival collection of famed bestselling New Orleans author Anne Rice is now open by appointment to the general public and campus community for research through the Tulane University Special Collections (TUSC), a division of Tulane University Libraries. Commencement, News Releases Baseball legend, AI pioneer, Marine Corps commandant and comedian/actor to be honored at Tulane Commencement April 08, 2022 Four individuals who have made major contributions in fields ranging from sports and entertainment to national defense and artificial intelligence will receive honorary degrees at Tulane University’s 2022 Commencement. Henry “Hank” Aaron, one of baseball’s greatest players; Gen. David H. Berger, a Tulane graduate and commandant of the United States Marine Corps; Ken Jeong, a medical doctor who became one of the country’s most sought-after comedic actors and Dr. Rosalind Picard, an inventor, engineer, scientist and pioneer in artificial intelligence, will receive honorary degrees at the May 21 ceremony. Aaron will receive Tulane’s first-ever posthumous honorary degree. News Releases, Research in Real Time, Retirements, Science Tulane study shows COVID-19’s lingering impacts on the brain April 01, 2022 COVID-19 patients commonly report having headaches, confusion and other neurological symptoms, but doctors don’t fully understand how the disease targets the brain during infection. Now, researchers at Tulane University have shown in detail how COVID-19 affects the central nervous system, according to a new study published in Nature Communications. News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Tulane researcher wins NSF award to study Earth’s ‘explosive’ tectonic reactions March 31, 2022 Tulane researcher Colin Jackson has won a National Science Foundation Early Career Award to further his research on the chemistry of planets. News Releases, Research in Real Time Researchers to evaluate program to recruit more women for civic boards and commissions March 15, 2022 Researchers from Tulane and University of Notre Dame will be working on a five-year research program with United WE to assess the efficacy of the Appointments Project®, which works to empower women and strengthen communities by increasing gender parity on civic boards and commissions. Commencement, News Releases Actor, producer, writer and doctor Ken Jeong to address Tulane’s 2022 graduates March 14, 2022 Ken Jeong, who honed his skills in New Orleans’ comedy clubs while completing his medical residency and a fellowship at Tulane’s School of Medicine in the 1990s, will be the keynote speaker at Tulane’s Commencement 2022. News Releases, Research in Real Time Could a common virus be a barrier to curing HIV? Tulane University awarded $4.1 million to find out March 09, 2022 Researchers at Tulane University will use a new $4.1 million NIH grant to investigate how a common virus may help HIV persist in viral reservoirs and out of reach of leading antiretroviral therapies. Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Tulane awarded $14 million NIH grant to study why heart disease, diabetes may blunt brain benefits of estrogen therapy March 04, 2022 The National Institutes of Health has awarded a $14.17 million grant to the Tulane University Brain Institute for a five-year study to understand why the brain-protecting benefits of estrogen don’t apply to all women, especially those with hypertension and Type 2 diabetes. COVID-19, Culture, Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane wins $2.27 million grant to combat burnout among health care workers March 04, 2022 The Tulane School of Social Work has been awarded a $2.27 million grant from the U.S. Health Resources and Services Administration to develop and implement a plan to address retention, burnout and overall wellbeing and resiliency of the health care workforce. Event, New Orleans Book Festival, News Releases Book Festival reveals inaugural 2022 poster March 03, 2022 The New Orleans Book Festival at Tulane University unveiled its official 2022 poster for the inaugural event, which features the artwork of Emma Fick, a talented local author, artist and illustrator from nearby Covington who now lives and works in New Orleans. Load more Media Inquiries To interview Tulane Faculty contact the public relations office. tel: 504-865-5210 pr@tulane.edu Subscribe to Tulane Today Tulane Today Archive Submit Your News Submission Guidelines Tulane in the News Office of Public Relations Link to Tulane Home Page Footer - Left Column Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Footer - Right Column Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University