Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search Features Breadcrumb Home Campus and Community Take It Outside Going outside for just a few minutes each day can improve your overall wellness, from relieving stress to improving your sleep. Joi Alexander, director of Health Initiatives in the Division of Student Engagement and Well-Being, cites some of the mental health and physical benefits of being outdoors.... Campus and Community Georgia Tech's 2022 Commencement Speakers The Georgia Institute of Technology conferred degrees in four separate Commencement ceremonies May 6-7, featuring speeches from Andre Dickens, mayor of Atlanta; Nashlie Sephus, computer engineer and entrepreneur; Raphael Bostic, Atlanta Federal Reserve president; and Google researcher Krishna Bharat.... Campus and Community The Month in Photos: April 2022 CIA Director Visits, Ivan Allen Jr. Prize, and Earth Week ... Student and Faculty Stories Recipients of the Class of 1934 Distinguished Professor Award at Georgia Tech The Class of 1934 Distinguished Professor Award recognizes outstanding achievement in teaching, research, and ... Campus and Community Grad Caps and Commissions While pursuing their degrees, many Georgia Tech students also participate in ... Student and Faculty Stories Breaking Down the Cap and Gown Academic regalia, also known as the “cap and gown,” varies according to the degree conferred and the level of ... Campus and Community Earth and Environment Tech Lawn and Garden Georgia Tech's main campus, with 400 acres and more than 13,000 trees, has a team of landscape professionals maintaining its beauty year-round. Tech Lawn and Garden taps into the knowledge of the lawn and garden experts in Landscape Services, showing how they do what they do and sharing tips that you can use at home.... Student and Faculty Stories The Month in Photos: March 2022 Astronaut Shane Kimbrough Visits, InVenture Prize, and Guthman Musical Instrument Competition ... Campus and Community When the Whistle Blows The Georgia Tech community is always deeply saddened to lose one of its own. ... Campus and Community 75 Years of Flight (and Climbing) In August 1945, weeks after Japan’s surrender marked the end of World War II, a group of Tech students gather ... Campus and Community Echoes of Each Other Everyone’s career path is marked by pivotal moments and people along the way. ... Campus and Community Campus in Bloom With the first day of spring just around the corner, campus is beginning to look different. ... Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Next page ›› Last page Last » Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education