Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home Media Resources Media Resources This is a page for external journalists and others who seek to write articles about Columbia, feature Columbia experts in news pieces, or film on campus. FILMING GUIDELINES bank icon Campus Access for Media group icon Event Access camera icon Photography, Film, and Video car icon Equipment and Parking search icon Student Privacy FEATURED EXPERTS The following experts can address topics related to Russia and Ukraine in the news. To see a full list of experts click here. Timothy Frye Expertise: Putin and Russia Thomas Kent Expertise: Russia and Media Kimberly Marten Expertise: Russia and East Central Europe Stephen Sestanovich Expertise: Russia and Post-Soviet Politics FIND MORE EXPERTS HERE COMMUNICATIONS CONTACTS If you need more help to find a Columbia expert, please email [email protected]. You can also find a directory of communications professionals in the Office of Communications and Public Affairs here. Subscribe to get the latest updates from Columbia News * indicates required Email Address * Affiliation Student Staff Faculty Alumni Neighbor Other Marketing Permissions By subscribing, you are agreeing to receive communications from Columbia University. Agree You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link in the footer of our emails. For information about our privacy practices, please visit our privacy policy. We use Mailchimp as our marketing platform. By clicking below to subscribe, you acknowledge that your information will be transferred to Mailchimp for processing. Learn more about Mailchimp's privacy practices here. Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close