Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeHome Inline CSS for Tulane News Articles Study shows blood test can differentiate between Zika and dengue June 26, 2018 3:00 PM | Keith Brannon kbrannon@tulane.edu Print to PDF Research_67.jpg 061317_mosquito_800x533_6188_pbc.jpg A new study from the School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine shows that, depending on the interpretation criteria, serological tests can differentiate between Zika and dengue infections. (Photo by Paula Burch-Celentano) A new study from the Tulane University School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine shows that, depending on the interpretation criteria, serological tests can distinguish recent Zika infections in areas where dengue is endemic. The study was published online in The American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. The body’s immune responses to the Zika and dengue viruses are so similar that it is very difficult to differentiate a recent Zika infection from a historical dengue infection. The study offers evidence that plaque reduction neutralization tests (PRNT), the historical gold standard for serological diagnosis of a viral infection, can differentiate between Zika and dengue infections if the appropriate interpretation criteria are used, according to Matthew Ward, a doctoral candidate in the Department of Tropical Medicine and first author on the paper. Pierre Buekens, MD, PhD, outgoing dean and W.H. Watkins professor of epidemiology, and Dawn Wesson, PhD, professor of tropical medicine, were co-authors along with several collaborators in Honduras and Argentina. Researchers tested 36 women attending a prenatal clinic in Honduras for the two flaviviruses. Results were interpreted using the World Health Organization (WHO) and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) criteria. The WHO criteria detected recent Zika infections in 69 percent of samples, while the CDC criteria only identified Zika in almost 6 percent of the same samples. The CDC method was only able to categorize a recent nonspecific flavivirus infection in most cases. The paper suggests that for population-based epidemiological cohort studies in dengue endemic regions, researchers should consider reporting using both CDC and WHO criteria until further investigation yields a revised criteria. Related Articles Other Related Articles Disaster-tested doctors Tulane offers region’s first GIS certificate program Tulane ByWater Institute awards faculty fellowships Protein investigator Award-winning archaeologist pens book on Roman tombs Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University