Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Former UCLA Chancellor Began Academic Career at NC State facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Author: Tim Peeler May 25, 2022 A School of Fishes At a research center in the port town of Morehead City, 18 veterinary medicine students get hands-on experience operating on fish. May 5, 2022 Wake STEM Early College High School Hosts May 9 Open House Take a tour of the school's new campus and learn about the innovative program that allows students to earn a high school diploma and college credit. May 4, 2022 The Hard Times and Good Life of Mohamed Mansour As an undergraduate in the 1960s, Mohamed Mansour struggled academically and financially. With the help of family, friends and supportive faculty, the young man went on to build one of Egypt's most successful businesses. Mansour shares his story at NC State's spring commencement ceremony. Apr 27, 2022 Retiring From ‘Dream Job,’ Boney Eyes Future After reimagining the Emerging Issues Forum and leading NC State's outreach and engagement efforts, Leslie Boney contemplates a retirement crowded with possibilities. Apr 13, 2022 Cutting Through the Noise NC State poet and professor Eduardo C. Corral untangles the chaos of everyday life — and earns a 2022 Guggenheim Fellowship for his efforts. Mar 31, 2022 Wes Is More Though his ninth season at NC State ended in a heartbreaking loss in the NCAA East Region final, women’s basketball coach Wes Moore has established a tradition of success. Mar 24, 2022 A Community Effort The record-breaking Wolfpack women's basketball team heads to Bridgeport, Connecticut, this weekend to face ACC foe Notre Dame in the NCAA Tournament's Sweet Sixteen. Mar 8, 2022 A History of Women’s Success For 50 years, NC State’s allegiance to and support of women’s athletics has enriched the experience of all who support equal access and opportunities on campus. Mar 7, 2022 Achieving New Heights The Wolfpack women's basketball team won its third straight ACC championship Sunday, completing the first back-to-back-to-back sweep in program history. Mar 7, 2022 Ms. Adventure Since she burst on the scene in a spirit of gleeful independence nearly five decades ago, Ms. Wuf has thrived as part of NC State's ultimate power couple. Mar 1, 2022 ‘Everything Had to Have a Purpose’: Remembering Journalism Visionary Richard Curtis NC State alumnus Richard Curtis revolutionized print journalism as the founding managing editor for design at USA Today. He died Sunday at 75. Feb 10, 2022 ‘Bengals Raised by Wolves’ Two former Wolfpack football teammates take the NFL's biggest stage Sunday when their Cincinnati Bengals step on the field for Super Bowl LVI. Feb 3, 2022 The Tournament A new ESPN series — co-produced by former Wolfpack guard Dereck Whittenburg — explores the history of the ACC men's basketball tournament and highlights NC State's role in its creation. Jan 27, 2022 Powering NC State Forward A four-year, $60 million electrical distribution system upgrade to NC State's electrical grid will ensure the power efficiency, reliability and stability that are key to expanding the university's growth. Dec 15, 2021 Former UCLA Chancellor Began Academic Career at NC State As the Wolfpack prepares to face UCLA in the Holiday Bowl, it's unlikely most Bruins fans know how much the California university owes to NC State. Posts navigation 1 2 … 31 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.