Skip to main content calendar subscribe Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds YaleNews Explore Topics Alumni Arts & Humanities Business Campus & Community Environment Health & Medicine International Law Science & Technology Social Sciences In Focus In Memoriam Search form Search Delivering the Games By Andrea Thompson Peed February 4, 2022 Share this with Facebook Share this with Twitter Share this with LinkedIn Share this with Email Print this Daniel Fleschner ’01 When the Beijing Olympics take over your television, one of those in charge of delivering it to you is Daniel Fleschner ’01, an Emmy-winning writer and producer and NBC’s vice president for content and programming for the Olympics. He and his team (including Evan Frondorf ’14) are currently in China to help bring each event seamlessly to life for viewers at home. It’s a task that takes years to pull off; as Fleschner puts it, “In my role, I’m always looking one or two Olympics ahead.” Fleschner spoke with Yale News about how he got to this position, and the unique challenges of wrangling hundreds of events and thousands of athletes into compelling television. This interview has been edited and condensed. Were there any experiences at Yale that influenced your professional path? Daniel Fleschner: So many! Much of my non-classroom time was spent preparing for this kind of career. When I was in high school, I was a summer intern in the Yale Sports Publicity Office, working for Steve Conn and Tim Bennett. Their mentorship and guidance were vital parts of my early sports media education. As an undergrad, I was a staff writer and columnist at the Yale Daily News, and I announced dozens of games on WYBC. Being deeply immersed in covering Yale and Ivy League sports as a writer and broadcaster was indispensable training for my future career. It was always fun, but my friends and I took the work very seriously. I didn’t think of it this way at the time, but looking back, my first programming job was as sports director at WYBC. How did you end up directing coverage of the Olympics? Fleschner: When I was a senior in college, a senior executive at NBC Sports named Peter Diamond [’74] was looking for candidates to work as an Olympic researcher for the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City. Peter got in touch with me through Steve Conn. I interviewed for the job and got it, and less than a year later, I was working at my first Olympics for NBC. Over the past two decades, I’ve had the opportunity to serve in a variety of production roles at NBC Sports, NBC News, Universal Sports Network, and NFL Network, and I now oversee Olympic programming at NBC. It’s been my great fortune and honor to work directly with Peter for the past several years, ultimately succeeding him in this role after he retired last fall. He and Steve Conn remain invaluable mentors, and I wouldn’t be here without either of them. What’s the most unique challenge in covering this kind of event? Fleschner: The scale and complexity of the Olympics are unlike anything else. In my role, to cover the Olympics is to cover more than 60 different sports across summer and winter, each with their own sets of rules, competition formats, schedule quirks, and eccentricities. The FIFA World Cup is a huge global event, but it’s one sport. The Super Bowl is the biggest day on the American TV calendar, but it’s one game. (And I should point out – we are also televising the Super Bowl on NBC this year on February 13, right in the middle of the Olympics!) There’s just nothing like the Olympics. So that presents enormous technical and operational challenges, which our engineering and operations teams handle amazingly well. I’m constantly in awe of their work. On the production and programming side, most Americans don’t follow these sports on a regular basis, so it’s our job to present them in an entertaining and informative way, mixing engaging event coverage with compelling storytelling. It’s a big challenge but we all love it. Related Keeping balance: Yale’s Nathan Chen and the pursuit of Olympic gold Life after gold: An Olympic champion reflects on her Yale years Alumni Arts & Humanities Share this with Facebook Share this with Twitter Share this with LinkedIn Share this with Email Print this More News Experimental drug reverses synaptic loss in mouse models of Alzheimer’s Study empowers long COVID patients as they struggle to find relief Experience desired: Nonwhite women face different standard for judgeships Udall Foundation honors three students for their environmental work Show More Articles Yale Browse Archives Contact Us For the Media It’s Your Yale Apply to Yale Give to Yale Managed by the Office of Public Affairs & Communications Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy · Accessibility at Yale Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds Yale on Instagram