Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Health & Society Health & Society Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland Jennifer Cornish Genovese is a professor of social work in the Falk College, a New York State licensed certified social worker and has worked in private practice as a psychotherapist for 30 years. She specializes in helping children deal with… Health & Society Alumni Draw on Their Military Experience in Their Roles as Teachers Thursday, May 26, 2022, By Martin Walls Do military veterans make good teachers? This question was posed to two School of Education alumni—one a former U.S. Army pilot and the other a former Air Force systems and IT technician turned linguist—who both now teach in Upstate New… Health & Society Social Work Student Bre’Yona Montalvo Receives First Sunflower Scholarship Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Matt Michael At her high school in Harlem, Bre’Yona Montalvo was the kind of classmate who always made time to listen. “Being in discussions in class and with friends, I was helping others without intentionally planning to help them,” says Montalvo, who… Health & Society NBA Player Shares Personal Experience With Stuttering With CSD Students Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Students walking into Grant Auditorium for CSD 450/650 Clinical Seminar last semester saw a celebrity instead of their usual professor. National Basketball Association (NBA) player Michael Kidd-Gilchrist was visiting the class to give the students a unique perspective on both… Health & Society Falk Graduate Student Rebecca Garofano Honored by Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Thursday, May 5, 2022, By Valerie Pietra Rebecca Garofano, a Falk College graduate student in nutrition science, was honored with the Outstanding Dietetics Student Award at the New York State Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Annual Meeting and Expo April 8-9 in Syracuse. Garofano is actively engaged… Health & Society Phillandra Smith Finds and Fosters Community at Syracuse University Tuesday, May 3, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Phillandra Smith hadn’t considered a Ph.D. until a professor at Barry University asked what she would do after finishing a master’s degree. Smith, who is from the Bahamas, had planned to return to the classroom. “This professor was honestly really… Health & Society Couple, Family Counseling Services Available at the Falk College Friday, April 22, 2022, By Valerie Pietra Sometimes we need extra support to manage the more difficult challenges in life, including challenges in our family relationships. A trained couple and family therapist can make an enormous difference in keeping these important connections healthy and strong for life…. Health & Society Design Professor Co-Authors Book on Design Thinking for a Regenerative Future Wednesday, March 2, 2022, By Erica Blust A new book about the importance of design thinking for a regenerative future grew from a conversation at Syracuse University between two like-minded visionaries. In September 2018, world-renowned futurist and thinker David Houle ’69, a graduate of the College of… Health & Society From Orange to Black and Gold: Athletic Advising Certificate Helps Ella Simkins ’20, G’21 Land at Army Lax Wednesday, March 2, 2022, By Martin Walls Ella Simkins ’20, G’21 had big plans for the 2020 women’s lacrosse season. A standout defender, in her junior year she had started all 21 games, recorded career highs in caused turnovers and draw controls, and ranked third on the… Health & Society Falk Students Provide Essential Therapy Services While Gaining Clinical Practice Thursday, February 24, 2022, By Valerie Pietra Marriage and family therapy is one of the fastest-growing mental health disciplines. The Bureau of Labor Statistics projects 16% growth in employment of marriage and family therapists from 2020 to 2030, as compared to the projected 8% average growth for… 12345 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.