Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Looking at public health through an LTGBTQ+ lens Engineering change Campus & Community Looking at public health through an LTGBTQ+ lens Campus & Community Looking at public health through an LTGBTQ+ lens Photo by Kent Dayton In the middle of his medical training, Austin Marshall stopped to earn an M.P.H. DateMay 28, 2021June 2, 2021 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 Global alumni community gather for first virtual annual meeting View all of Honoring the Class of 2021 This is one in a series of profiles showcasing some of Harvard’s stellar graduates. Austin Marshall, M.P.H. ’21, wants to be a physician-advocate for the LGBTQ+ community and care for patients as a doctor, as well as to steer policy to help improve health systems that serve many. Working at a free clinic in Berkeley, California, shaped his public health path, his research on mental health access for LGBTQ+ elders during his time at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, and his many hidden talents, from singing Indian classical music to competing in esports to fixing his friends’ iPhones. As an undergraduate at Berkeley, I was originally a bioengineering major. But volunteering at a clinic that provided services for people who didn’t have access to insurance or were discriminated against by the mainstream health care system — such as the homeless and gay and bisexual men — convinced me to switch to public health. Working at the clinic showed me how situations can arise where the health of an entire group of people is ignored and marginalized. It highlighted for me why we need people educated in public health to make critical policy decisions and who believe in the care of these communities. After earning my B.A. in public health, I returned home to work on my M.D. at UC San Diego as part of the PRIME Health Equity program. The program trains future physicians focused on fighting health disparities in their communities and in the world more broadly. As part of this program, we complete a master’s degree between years three and four of our medical school curriculum — and I knew I wanted to attend Harvard Chan School for my master’s degree to further my knowledge of health policy and to improve quality health care access for LGBTQ+ populations. Completing my Harvard Chan practicum project at The Fenway Institute was easily the highlight of my experience at the School. I worked on a systematic literature review looking at mental health care access for LGBTQ+ elders. One of our key findings was that provider competency regarding LGBTQ+ elder care is really lacking. We also found that the more impairments people have in terms of their mental health, the more difficult it is for them to maintain both their HIV care appointments and their general care appointments. And a lot of LGBTQ+ older adults have less familial support than their straight counterparts, because a lot of them may not have a legally recognized partnership or lost a long-term partner during the AIDS epidemic. Not having access to these social supports makes it harder for them to retain care and makes it more likely that they’ll develop a mental health diagnosis. One of my favorite things about Harvard Chan School has been getting to meet and work with people in my health policy cohort. We’ve been doing socially distanced park hangouts for most of the year, rain or shine — including in the snow! The people that the School recruits are just incredible, so being able to learn from them and become friends with them has been a highlight. The same thing goes for the Zuckerman Fellowship, which was a big factor in my decision to come to the School. The people in that cohort are leaders in different Harvard schools across disciplines, but they all have the same commitment to public service and helping underserved populations. They inspire me to keep fighting against inequities and to recognize the interdisciplinary solutions required for action. One hidden talent of mine is that I sing Indian classical music. I’m half-Indian, half-white; my mom moved to the U.S. from India when she was 18. She learned from a famous classical singer in India, and she taught me and my brother how to sing. I started learning pretty young, like 5 or 6, and I’ve been singing ever since. Whenever I go back to San Diego, I’ll make time to sing. I also just do it for myself in my free time. Something people might not know about me is that I’m ranked among the top 1 percent of Overwatch players worldwide. Overwatch is an immersive game that’s set in a sci-fi future universe. The game is played as an esport, which is basically professional gaming. Right before I started medical school, I thought of potentially trying out for a league to play professionally, but I went the medical school route instead. I repair Apple laptops and iPhones as a side hobby. I had a friend in high school who had multiple Mac computers that didn’t work. They were sitting in his closet. I asked if I could take a look at them and take them apart, and he said sure. I used online guides, put in a few new components and they started working again. Now, if people have iPhones that need a battery replaced or a MacBook that has a noisy fan, I’ll repair it. I find it therapeutic to use my hands and strategize. The tools you have to use for repair are tiny. It’s almost like surgery. My ultimate way to unwind is regular exercise. It’s a must during the pandemic. First I work out or go for a run, then I might settle down with a video game — or a YouTube documentary about a video game. As told to Karen Feldscher, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 Global alumni community gather for first virtual annual meeting View all of Honoring the Class of 2021 Up Next Campus & Community Engineering change Juliet Nwagwu Ume-Ezeoke ’21 is one degree closer to improving Africa’s infrastructure Campus & Community Engineering change Courtesy photo