Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News 28 Photos From Columbia Commencement Week That Show How Happy We Are to Return to Campus to Celebrate Our Grads Photo Essay 28 Photos From Columbia Commencement Week That Show How Happy We Are to Return to Campus to Celebrate Our Grads For the past week, Columbians have turned out to celebrate the Classes of 2022, 2021, and 2020 in style. By Kelly Moffitt & Jennifer Pellerito May 20, 2022 University Commencement on May 18, 2022, brought crowds that stretched from Low Library to Butler Library on Columbia's Morningside Heights campus. Photo by Eileen Barroso. The past week has been a blur of celebration on Columbia's campuses, as we've finally been able to welcome our graduates home for school graduation ceremonies, University Commencement, a special celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021, and many more related activities. Our photographers have been there to capture it all. This year, everyone at Columbia has been excited for the return to an in-person celebration for our graduates. Whether in Bangladesh, or Boulder, or right on Broadway, we love seeing our grads celebrate their accomplishments all across the world. The Class of 2022 includes more than 14,400 students from Columbia’s 21 schools and affiliates. They come from over 138 countries, include 181 military veterans, 8 displaced scholars, and 76 staff members. This year is also the first time that Columbia Climate School will grant degrees. More than 80 students celebrated during the school’s inaugural Class Day on May 13. Be sure to follow Columbia’s social media channels to let us know how you’ve been celebrating and use the hashtag #RoarLions2022, #RoarLions2021, and #RoarLions2020 to spread the word about our brilliant graduates. You can imagine how difficult it is to choose just a few photos to mark such a momentous week, so we encourage you to follow Columbia's Instagram to see even more snapshots of the fun. Roar, Lion, Roar! Columbia University Commencement – May 18, 2022 Mabel O. Wilson, Nancy and George Rupp Professor of Architecture, Planning and Preservation and Director of the Institute for Research in African American Studies, was the Mace Bearer for Columbia at University Commencement 2022. The mace symbolizes the university president’s ability to confer degrees on graduates. Photo by Diane Bondareff. The university breaks out the mace for ceremonial occasions, like graduation, where the mace symbolizes the university president’s ability to confer degrees. A little more backstory: the mace is made of Sheffield plate and was donated to Columbia in 1933 by John Munro Woolsey (LAW’1901, HON’29), a federal judge who that same year was best known for his ruling that James Joyce’s Ulysses was not obscene. He was also a founding member of the Columbia Law Review. You can learn more about the mace here. Columbia's mascot Roar-EE poses with a student during the academic procession. Photo by Bruce Gilbert. Gleeful honorary degree recipient, writer, performer, and visual artist Patti Smith, enters University Commencement during the academic procession. Photo by Eileen Barroso. You can learn more about all of Columbia's 2022 honorary degree recipients here. And learn more about how honorary degree recipients are chosen in this video. In addition to honorary degrees, the Commencement ceremony also included the conferral of Presidential Awards for Outstanding Teaching, Faculty Mentoring Awards, Faculty Service Awards, and recognition of Columbia Alumni Medalists. Congratulations to all! The national anthem was vocally performed by Cayleigh Capaldi (CC'22) and performed in American Sign Language by Morgan Grant (BC'22). Photo by Eileen Barroso. “Lift Every Voice and Sing” was vocally performed by Jordan Alexander James Jarrett (LAW'22) and performed in American Sign Language by Morgan Grant (BC'22). Photo by Eileen Barroso. University President Lee C. Bollinger addresses the Class of 2022 in his Commencement Address on May 18, 2022. Photo by Diane Bondareff. President Bollinger discussed free speech, knowledge, expertise, and humility, as well as the role of universities as a force for good in society. You can read more about his speech here or watch the full video clip. Responding to calls from graduates and guests for a speech, and with a nod from President Bollinger, honorary degree recipient and former U.S. Secretary of State and First Lady Hillary Clinton shared impromptu remarks with the Class of 2022 at Columbia’s Commencement ceremony. Photo by Diane Bondareff. You can watch a short clip of Clinton's remarks here. Honorary degree recipient, cellist, and humanitarian Yo-Yo Ma throws up a heart sign at the Class of 2022. Photo by Diane Bondareff. Joyful Barnard grads during University Commencement. Photo by Diane Bondareff. Columbia College Dean James J. Valentini, known fondly as "Deantini," rises (alongside School of the Arts Dean Carol Becker) to address the Class of 2022 and beseech the university president to confer degrees upon the College's graduates. Photo by Diane Bondareff. Columbia College grads wave inflatable lions in celebration. Photo by Diane Bondareff. Graduates from the School of Engineering and Applied Sciences wave inflatable red hammers in celebration. Photo by Bruce Gilbert. Graduates hug in celebration after their Columbia degrees are conferred. Photo by Bruce Gilbert. Two newly minted Columbia grads show off their decorated mortar boards at University Commencement. Photo by Diane Bondareff. You can read more about the University Commencement ceremony in the official program here. And you can watch the full ceremony here. Celebration for the Classes of 2020 & 2021 – May 19, 2022 A little drizzle couldn't dampen the spirit of these alumni who returned to campus to finally celebrate their degrees in person. Photo by Bruce Gilbert. Three friends and graduates pose during the academic procession for the Classes of 2020 and 2021. Photo by Bruce Gilbert. Columbia vocal performance group Notes and Keys sang "New York State of Mind" at the beginning of the ceremony. Photo by Eileen Barroso. Provost Mary Boyce and President Lee C. Bollinger applaud the Classes of 2020 and 2021, as Senior Vice President for Columbia Health, Melanie Bernitz, one of the recipients of the Nicholas Murray Butler Medal, looks on. Photo by Bruce Gilbert. You can view the entire celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 here to see President Bollinger and Provost Mary Boyce's remarks. And you can learn more about the Nicholas Murray Butler Medals awarded to the President’s Advisory Task Force on COVID-19 here. Award-winning composer, conductor, orchestrator, and musician Tom Kitt (CC'96) and actor, singer, and theatrical producer Brandon Victor Dixon (CC'07) performed Columbia's newest song, "Oh, Columbia" at the Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021. Photo by Eileen Barroso. You can view the full performance of "Oh, Columbia," here. Teachers College grads show their excitement at the Celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021. Photo by Bruce Gilbert. A grad erupts in a cheer during the ceremony in a sea of SEAS grads. Photo by Bruce Gilbert. One of the Columbia hawks observes the celebration for the Classes of 2020 and 2021 from a flag pole overlooking Low Plaza. Photo by Bruce Gilbert. Learn more about the hawk, one of the affectionately-named "Ginsbirds," here. Our grads are awe-inspiring! Photo by Diane Bondareff. Photos from Graduation Ceremonies Throughout the Week There are dozens of photos from specific school ceremonies that have been and will be posted in the coming week on Columbia's Instagram. Check them out! Graduates enter St. Paul's Chapel for the Baccalaureate Service on May 15, 2022. The Baccalaureate Service is an interfaith, intercultural service celebrating each undergraduate's academic career. You can watch the full ceremony and learn more about the service here. Climate School deans Alex Halliday and Jason Bordoff arrived at Columbia Climate School's inaugural Class Day ceremony in an iconic way… on a bike. Photo by Michael DiVito. The inaugural Climate School graduating class poses in front of Miller Theatre. Photo by Michael DiVito. The Columbia Climate School marked its first Class Day since the school's establishment in 2021. You can read more about the ceremony here and view photos and videos here. School of Professional Studies students pose in front of "The Thinker" statue ahead of the SPS Class Day on May 13, 2022. Photo by Diane Bondareff. This is one of our most-recommended grad photo spots! Love the thinking pose. Looking for more stories from Commencement? Check out all of our coverage here. Get Columbia News In Your Inbox Tags Commencement Students Faculty Staff News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close