Skip to main content Search Close Search Search this site Search Search News and Media All of Oklahoma State University Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Headlines News and Media Main Menu In this section News News Archive Topics College News In the Media Magazines Experts Directory Submit News Contact Us Home Magazines Cowboy Journal Cowboy Journal The official magazine of the Ferguson College of Agriculture Something To Offer No stranger to the grit and determination the day will demand, Kelli Payne, Oklahoma National Stockyards president and Oklahoma State University alumna, greets the morning with a twinkle in her eye. In this issue OSU faculty facilitate master irrigator program OSU alumnus retires after four decades at Tyson Foods Inc. OSU Ranch Horse Team creates new opportunities Graduate students pioneers food research Research links eastern redcedars to arthropod spread Full Archive Featured Articles Honoring Her Father Donors of New Frontier project honor past dean Candy Queen OSU freshman develops sweet treat Small-town Strawberries OSU Extension helps preserve Oklahoma strawberry farming Science Meets Society Ferguson College of Agriculture master’s students learn to translate research About Cowboy Journal The Cowboy Journal is a magazine produced during a capstone class taken by agricultural communications seniors in their final semester. The Cowboy Journal staff members use the skills they have developed through courses such as layout and design, photography and feature writing to produce a magazine for the Oklahoma State University Ferguson College of Agriculture. The OSU agricultural communications program is among the most respected and largest in the nation. Our roots are deep — reaching back to OSU's first offering of agricultural journalism in 1927. Today, we are on the leading edge of technology. Our faculty combine hands-on instruction with real-world experience, and our graduates are prominent leaders in the agricultural communications field. Agricultural Education, Communications and Leadership Department Cowboy Journal Volume 24 No. 2 View the PDF View past issues Thank You to Our Sponsors AFR Cooperative Alpha Gamma Rho Fraternity American Ag Credit American Farmers and Ranchers Beefmasters Breeders United Blue & Gold Sausage Farm Credit of Western Oklahoma Farm House Fraternity Ferguson College of Agriculture Ferguson College of Agriculture Alumni Society Hideaway Pizza John Deere Lacey Livestock National Livestock Credit Corporation Null Seed Oklahoma AgCredit Oklahoma Beef Council Oklahoma Cattleman's Association Oklahoma Farm Bureau Oklahoma FFA Association Oklahoma Pork Council OSU Agriculture OSU Alumni Association OSU Foundation P&K Equipment Robert M. Kerr Food and Agricultural Products Center Seabord Foods Sigma Alpha Stillwater Milling Co. Visit Stillwater Wood Feed & Supply Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©