Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeNews Home /PR /Newcomb Dance Company presents "Cassandra Machine" Newcomb Dance Company presents "Cassandra Machine" April 18, 2022 9:00 AM Print to PDF Barri Bronston bbronst@tulane.edu 504-314-7444 CassandraMachine_600.jpg Ronit Ziv is an award-winning choreographer from Israel who has been serving as a guest artist at Tulane for the spring semester. The Newcomb Dance Company of the Tulane University Department of Theatre and Dance will present the premiere of Cassandra Machine, a contemporary dance work about the lone voice in a crowd, beginning Tuesday, April 26 on Tulane’s uptown campus. Performances will take place in the Lupin Memorial Theatre in the Dixon Performing Arts Center Annex at 7:30 p.m. April 26-29, 5 p.m. April 30 and 2 p.m. May 1. Casandra Machine revisits and revives classic Greek mythology through the tragic journey of Cassandra, who is blessed with premonitions but cursed by the gods to never be believed. The immersive and interactive contemporary dance piece connects the story of Cassandra and her struggles to modern day women and the many others in society who face the harsh reality of speaking yet not being heard or understood. The dance work is the creation of award-winning choreographer Ronit Ziv, who as part of the Israel Institute’s Visiting Artists’ Program has been serving as a Jill Karp Guest Artist for the spring semester at Tulane. Ziv is known for her unique choreography featuring release technique everyday gestures, text and, for this performance, contributions by Tulane’s own dance talent. She will moderate a talkback with select cast members following the April 28 performance. Tickets are $5 for students and $10 for the general public and can be purchased at the box office, online or by calling 504-865-5106. Because of the complex and interactive nature of the performance, late seating will be prohibited. Ticket holders who arrive late will have the option of exchanging their tickets for a performance that has not sold out. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions Footer - Middle Column News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Footer - Right Column Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University