Skip to content University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Apply Giving Clemson News Search Topics OUR Clemson Impact and Innovation Student Success Faculty and Staff Achievements Alumni Accomplishments All Stories Clemson In The News Celebrating the Class of 2022 Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Divisions Office of the President Office of the Provost Advancement Clemson Computing Information Technology External Affairs Finance and Operations Inclusion and Equity Public Service and Agriculture Research Student Affairs Athletics For Journalists Our Experts Clemson.edu Resources University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Search for: Search Search Clemson News Search for: Search College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences STEM ALL-IN helped Sevrina Tekle choose Clemson University for her Ph.D. program Share: Download image May 31, 2022May 31, 2022 Sevrina Tekle knew she wanted to attend graduate school but wasn’t sure where until she received an invitation to visit Clemson University as part of STEM ALL-IN, a program that allowed her to take a weekend to visit campus, all expenses paid. “Once I visited, that solidified that I wanted to come to Clemson,” she said. “Quite literally, right as the weekend ended, I submitted my application.” Sevrina Tekle graduated from Vanderbilt University this spring and will soon pack her bags for Clemson University. It was a match. Sevrina graduated from Vanderbilt University with a Bachelor of Science in engineering science this spring and will soon pack her bags for Clemson, where she will pursue a Ph.D. in bioengineering under Dr. Renee Cottle as part of the Clemson Bridge to Doctorate Program. In STEM ALL In, students from across the country visit Clemson early in the graduate-school application process. They meet with faculty, students and staff and learn about research opportunities on campus. A big part of the goal is to increase the number of students who are from groups underrepresented in STEM. “I really appreciated it,” Sevrina said. “Something I was looking for in a grad school was that they were at least trying to promote diversity. When I was looking at other schools, some were. But I felt like Clemson was the only school really pushing for it.” Sevrina, who is from suburban Atlanta and is a first-generation college student, has long stood out academically. She was on Meadowcreek High School’s FIRST Robotics team in 2017 when it made the World Championships, and she attended Vanderbilt on a QuestBridge Scholarship that paid for tuition, books, room and board and travel expenses. Sevrina Tekle plays viola to unwind. Sevrina has secured funding that is allowing her to continue her undergraduate research at Vanderbilt through the summer. She is also helping her mother at her cafe, Friendship Coffee House, in Decatur, Georgia until it’s time to head for Clemson. She looks forward to learning about new research techniques, exploring Clemson and Greenville and meeting her new friends in the Clemson Family. Please help us welcome her! Want to Discuss? Get in touch and we will connect you with the author or another expert. Or email us at news@clemson.edu Your Name Your Email Your Message This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Related Posts Bradley Awards recognize faculty, graduate student Creative Inquiry mentors Experiments and Experiences Clemson’s COBRE Symposium features leading experts on genetics of human disease Student focused on children’s health and wellness earns Class of 2022’s top honor Department of BioengineeringGraduate School Clemson News Clemson News is the go-to source for stories and news about the innovations, research and accomplishments of the Clemson Family. Contact Us Media Resources For Journalists Find an Expert Clemson Publications Clemson World Decipher IDEAS magazine Student Affairs Experience Magazine Orange. The Experience. Clemson TV Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022. All Rights Reserved. Clemson University Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson