Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #alumni Campus & Community Legette-Jack’s Jersey Retired in Historic Moment for University and Athletics Monday, November 15, 2021, By News Staff In a historic day for Syracuse University and the Department of Athletics, women’s basketball standout Felisha Legette-Jack ’89 had her jersey retired in the stadium on Sunday, Nov. 14. As Legette-Jack’s jersey was raised to the rafters at halftime of… Campus & Community Old Friends and New Memories Abound at Orange Central 2021 Thursday, November 4, 2021, By John Boccacino Orange Central 2021 brought together more than 1,600 alumni and friends of Syracuse University for a celebration of all things Orange. The weekend featured something for everyone, including special milestone reunion gatherings, the Alumni Awards Celebration and the always-popular ‘Cuse… Veterans Syracuse University Announces Transformative $30 Million Gift to Secure the Future and Long-Term Success of the Institute for Veterans and Military Families Thursday, November 4, 2021, By News Staff This week the Syracuse University community came together to dedicate and formally open the National Veterans Resource Center (NVRC) at the Daniel and Gayle D’Aniello Building, and to celebrate the 10-year anniversary of the Institute for Veterans and Military Families… Media, Law & Policy Real Chemistry Emerging Insights Lab Dedicated at the Newhouse School Tuesday, October 26, 2021, By Wendy S. Loughlin Newhouse School alumnus Jim Weiss ’87, chairman, founder and CEO of global health innovation company Real Chemistry, and his wife, Audra Weiss ’89, visited campus Oct. 15 to dedicate the Real Chemistry Emerging Insights Lab (EIL) at the Newhouse School. Established… Campus & Community Making History and Exceeding Goals: What It Means to Be Forever Orange Thursday, October 21, 2021, By Eileen Korey Forever Orange: The Campaign for Syracuse University is a clarion call “to show the world what Orange can do.” The response so far has been spirited and inspiring: Syracuse University has raised more in private philanthropy than at any other… Campus & Community Sign Up by Sunday for Orange Central 2021! Wednesday, October 20, 2021, By Kim Infanti Thanks to a high level of interest from the University community, the Office of Alumni Engagement has extended the deadline to sign up for Orange Central homecoming and reunion weekend, being held Oct. 28-31. Everyone who signs up by Sunday,… Veterans Alumnus Remembered for Ongoing Legacy of Service, Recognized in NVRC Hall of Honor Tuesday, October 19, 2021, By Brandon Dyer James Lyons ’03, one of the first Syracuse University alumni killed during Operation Iraqi Freedom, was inducted into the University’s National Veterans Resource Center’s Hall of Honor on Oct. 15. He was also recognized as the “Hometown Hero” during halftime… Health & Society Philanthropy That Recognizes the Value of Education and Educators Tuesday, October 19, 2021, By Eileen Korey Sharon Jacquet graduated from Syracuse University in 1972 with a degree in elementary education but decided against becoming a teacher. “I felt it was an awesome responsibility and I was too immature to be responsible for those young minds,” Jacquet… Campus & Community Schine Renovation ‘Profound Honor and Responsibility’ for Architect John Burse ’94 Monday, October 18, 2021, By Jen Maser John Burse ’94 first stepped foot on the Syracuse University campus as a high school senior in the late 1980s with dreams of becoming an architect. He recalls stepping onto the Quad for the first time and knowing in that… Campus & Community Panel Discussion, Live Music Highlight ‘Return to Jabberwocky’ During Orange Central Friday, October 15, 2021, By Cristina Hatem As part of Syracuse University’s Orange Central alumni weekend, Syracuse University Libraries, the College of Visual and Performing Arts, S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications and WAER will host an event titled “Return to Jabberwocky” from 6:30 to 8:30 p.m…. 123456789 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.