Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / News by topic Posted April 6, 2022 news, women's basketball, Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Following five successful seasons at Towson, Diane Richardson joins the Owls. During her five years at the helm, Richardson led Towson to two postseason appearances, twice as many as in the program's previous 49 seasons of existence. Vice President and Director of Athletics Arthur Johnson announced on April 6 that Diane Richardson has been named head coach of Temple University women’s basketball. Boasting an 80-66 overall head coaching record, Richardson led Towson to a record-breaking 2021–2022 season and the school’s second berth in the Women’s National Invitation Tournament in school history. “I am excited to announce that Diane Richardson will be our next women’s basketball coach at Temple University,” said Johnson. “Diane is an amazing woman who has had incredible success in not just coaching, but all aspects of her life. It was her drive and passion that separated her from the other candidates, as well as her incredible success at Towson. I look forward to working with her to return Temple women’s basketball to one of the top teams in the country.” “I want to thank President Wingard, Arthur Johnson, Jessica Reo and the entire committee for this incredible opportunity to become the head women’s basketball coach at Temple University,” said Richardson. “Temple has a rich tradition of success in women’s basketball, and I am thrilled to take over this program and work hard to take it to the next level.” Read the full story. Anonymous Related Stories Owl takes the helm of Tampa Bay Buccaneers espnW Campus Conversations celebrates and inspires Temple student-athletes Owl athletes break record for academic success What they’re saying about Temple’s new athletic director Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.