Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy Where red and blue meet: cancel culture, fair elections May 24, 2022 A new and uniquely constructed survey of American voters finds glimmers of hope that Democrats and Republicans can agree on steps needed to shore up an increasingly shaky democracy. Summit on democracy features high-level insight, surprising survey results May 18, 2022 To address the fragility of American democracy, the Institute of Politics and Global Affairs at the Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy is bringing together influential political leaders, policymakers and experts for a May 24 summit. Around Cornell Einaudi awards fund global research and activities May 17, 2022 Awards from the Mario Einaudi Center for International Studies will support faculty-led research and international events, send graduate students to research destinations around the world and connect undergraduates with in-person and virtual internships from Ecuador to Zambia and beyond. Around Cornell In State of the Brooks School address, Dean Barry outlines “an opportunity and an obligation” May 12, 2022 The Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy is about to conclude its first academic year. In a State of the School address to faculty and staff, Dean Colleen Barry outlined accomplishments from that year and new initiatives the school is about to launch. She also described the school's long-term goals including the goal of becoming one of the nation's pre-eminent public policy schools. Around Cornell Students honored for local community impact May 10, 2022 Four students have received the 2022 Cornell Campus-Community Leadership Award, an annual honor given by the Division of University Relations to graduating seniors who have shown exceptional town-gown leadership and innovation. Misperceptions can threaten scientific advancement May 5, 2022 Misperceptions of marginalized and disadvantaged communities’ level of concern regarding COVID-19 and other issues could undermine cooperation and trust needed to address collective problems, according to new Cornell-led research. Superheroes and more: Brooks students make a “contribution” May 4, 2022 Imagining superheroes and sharing leftovers, building a library and embarking on a new educational adventure - that's how four Cornell Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy students plan to use funds they received through the Contribution Project. Around Cornell Underserved high schoolers now thriving in college credit Cornell program April 28, 2022 "I saw what I am capable of when I am challenged" - that's what University of Buffalo freshman Donovan Blount says about a course developed at Cornell by two professors in the Jeb E. Brooks School of Public Policy. The leader of a national education equity organization says professors Maria Fitzpatrick and Matthew Hall are "academic heroes." Around Cornell Costs, volunteer demands strain rural ambulance services April 25, 2022 Research by Cornell Institute for Public Affairs students highlights unsustainable cost increases challenging rural ambulance services in upstate New York and beyond, and offers solutions. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Next page » Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON