UT Wordmark Primary UT Wordmark Formal Shield Texas UT News Camera Chevron Close Search Copy Link Download File Hamburger Menu Time Stamp Open in browser Load More Pull quote Cloudy and windy Cloudy Partly Cloudy Rain and snow Rain Showers Snow Sunny Thunderstorms Wind and Rain Windy Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter email alert map calendar bullhorn Skip to content ↓ Information and resources related to COVID-19 Protect Texas Together Close Banner The University of Texas at Austin May 31, 2022 UT News Navigation Search Close Navigation UT News News Opinions Series UT Stories: COVID-19 What Starts Here Campaign Stories UT Research Science & Technology Health & Wellness Arts & Humanities Education & Leadership Business & Economy Campus & Community Policy & Law For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Experts Guide Pitch Form Archive UT Austin on Twitter UT Austin on Instagram UT Austin on Facebook UT Austin on LinkedIn Search for content on UT News Search Button Series American Talent Initiative Transforming and improving the lives of our students and their families is central to the purpose of the mission of The University of Texas at Austin. As a public flagship university serving Texans from all backgrounds, UT Austin supports students and their families along their paths to achieving the American dream. View all 4 stories in the Series, American Talent Initiative Changing Your World These Longhorns are putting their education to work for Texas — from better commutes to better classrooms. See how they are changing your world. View all 23 stories in the Series, Changing Your World Class of 2019 View all 6 stories in the Series, Class of 2019 Class of 2020 View all 8 stories in the Series, Class of 2020 Class of 2021 View all 10 stories in the Series, Class of 2021 Class of 2022 View all 8 stories in the Series, Class of 2022 Faculty Stories A university is only as good as its faculty. Here are a few examples of how they are changing the world. View all 19 stories in the Series, Faculty Stories Game Changers Game Changers showcases our most dynamic and inspirational faculty with fresh perspectives about contemporary and relevant topics, Game Changers is an opportunity for students, alumni and the community to benefit from lifelong learning offered by The University of Texas at Austin. View all 30 stories in the Series, Game Changers Serving the State At UT Austin, we like to say that what starts here changes the world. That change begins in Texas. Every year, our researchers help make Texans safer, smarter, and more economically secure. Every day, Longhorns help make Texas a beacon of opportunity for the country and the world. These stories, drawn from across the Forty Acres, are just a sample of the many ways UT Austin students, faculty, staff and alumni serve the state. View all 73 stories in the Series, Serving the State Texas History and Traditions You’ll feel the inescapable pull of the UT Austin spirit in a million ways. For some, it’s finding that secret studying spot tucked away in a quiet library full of ancient manuscripts; for others, it’s the roar of the burnt orange crowd as 100,000 voices unify to the words of “The Eyes of Texas.” Whatever the case, our many traditions help to strengthen our community and bind us together as Longhorns — proud, ambitious and determined to change the world. View all 5 stories in the Series, Texas History and Traditions Unlocking Student Potential The purpose of our university is to provide an opportunity for extraordinary students from all backgrounds to discover their talents, gain new knowledge and build a foundation for their lives and careers. View all 12 stories in the Series, Unlocking Student Potential UT25 Impact Makers At UT, what starts here changes the world. These five leaders of the UT Class of 2025, from regions across Texas, have served their communities and received generous scholarships, which will help them in their efforts to make a difference at the university and beyond. View all 5 stories in the Series, UT25 Impact Makers Subscribe to the TEXAS Newsletter UT Austin on Twitter UT Austin on Instagram UT Austin on Facebook UT Austin on LinkedIn UT News Home For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Experts Guide News Archive Pitch Form UT Austin Home Site Policies Web Privacy Policy Emergency Information Web Accessibility Policy Disability Resources © The University of Texas at Austin 2022