Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home Arts & Humanities Arts & Humanities Off the Shelf School of the Arts Writing Professor Margo Jefferson has received many accolades throughout her career, including a Pulitzer Prize and a National Book Critics Circle Award for Autobiography, for her first memoir, "Negroland." A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir In her new book, Professor Margo Jefferson examines her life against a backdrop of American cultural influences. Grand Central Terminal's main concourse. 10 Iconic Buildings and Spaces Designed by Columbia Architects A roster of visionary GSAPP alumni have created some of America’s most treasured and important spaces. Zora Neale Hurston Papers, Literary Manuscripts, Special and Area Studies Collections, George A. Smathers Libraries, University of Florida. How Zora Neale Hurston’s Love for a Fellow Columbia Student Changed American Literature The relationship between Zora Neale Hurston (’28 BC) and Percival “Percy” Punter (’35 GSAS) profoundly impacted both of them. Courtney Chartier (Eileen Barroso) 6 Fascinating Finds from Columbia’s Archives Courtney Chartier, the Rare Book and Manuscript Library’s new director, shares some of her favorites from the collection. Exhibitions "St. Louis Exposition in a Nutshell" provides an architectural synopsis of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition of 1904, housed within a walnut shell. Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library. Architectural Novelties at Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library This online exhibition features a selection of items from the Avery Classics collection that are both comprehensive and eccentric in their treatment of architecture. 2022 Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation End of Year Show; Advanced Architecture Studio led by GSAPP Professor Emanuel Admassu. The 2022 End of Year Show at the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation The exhibition celebrates and showcases student work from across all of GSAPP's degree programs. Warrior statues, Mont'e Prama, Italy The Giant Heroes of Mont'e Prama: Recovering An Ancient Sardinian Heritage An Italian Academy digital exhibition sheds light on the little-known Mediterranean culture that created these 3,000-year-old sculptural giants. Explore Columbia Libraries' Digital Archival Collections. Podcasts Conversations With Architects Columbia GSAPP · Untapped New York Explores Upper Manhattan Columbia GSAPP · Untapped New York Explores Morningside Heights More Arts News May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir In her new book, Professor Margo Jefferson examines her life against a backdrop of American cultural influences. Tags LiteratureArtsHumanities May 23, 2022 The Complex World of Air Traffic Controllers In “Dead Reckoning,” Sociology Professor Diane Vaughan looks at the effort it takes for controllers to keep the skies safe. Tags SociologyHumanities May 12, 2022 Meet Valentina Izmirlieva, the New Director of the Harriman Institute The war in Ukraine has affected every aspect of work at the institute, she says, including her plans for the Harriman's future. Tags UkraineHumanities More News Books Wild Things: The Disorder of Desire Jack Halberstam Extraterritorial: A Political Geography of Contemporary Fiction Matthew Hart Intervolution: Smart Bodies, Smart Things Mark C. Taylor Persianate Selves: Memories of Place and Origin Before Nationalism Mana Kia Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close