Skip to Content The Peel Open Close primary navigation Search Search Blog Quizzes SE Student Services Write for The Peel Syracuse News Search Search The Peel is a fun, interactive newsletter and blog focused on your student experience. The stories, quizzes and events – many of them created by students – share ways to connect you with stuff happening on campus and the need-to-knows about student life. The Peel features content for students, by students, as well as from the Division of Enrollment and the Student Experience. If you’re interested in sharing advice with fellow students, covering an event, creating a quiz, or more, let us know! News & Headlines Remember When? How Our Campus Has Changed Since Fall 2018 April 27, 2022 As the class of 2022 prepares to graduate in just a few short weeks, many of us seniors have taken a nostalgic look back at our past four years. As I walk around campus and recall memories, I am struck by how much campus has changed since fall 2018. The class of 2022 has seen… Summer Activities in Syracuse April 26, 2022 Spending the summer in Syracuse? In June, when the weather turns warm and we finally get some sunshine in CNY, there are plenty of fun ways to enjoy the outdoors. Although Syracuse may be your home during the school year, it has just as much to offer in the summer months when you’re out of… Tips to Help You Gear Up for Finals April 26, 2022 As the semester winds down, preparation for final exams begins to loom over us all. You may already feel the stress of finals season and are unsure of how to de-stress and have a balanced routine. As a senior, I have dealt with the pressure of finals firsthand. Check out some of my tips to… Read More News Mentions of activities, businesses and products are for reference purposes only and reflect students' opinions and personal experience, and does not reflect official University endorsement. © Syracuse University. Knowledge crowns those who seek her. | Accessibility Accreditation Emergencies Privacy