View in Browser Research Week in review In the Office of the Vice Provost for Research & Scholarship, over 250 professionals guide faculty, staff, and learners through the entire Research Lifecycle, from project conception and grant submission to sharing results with the world and creating commercial opportunities. To submit an announcement to the Week in Review or promote your event, email vprs@miami.edu policies & reminders New Policy Addressing Effort on Sponsored Awards The Effort on Sponsored Awards policy has been published in PolicyStat. This policy outlines the minimum and maximum amount of effort that can be allocated to sponsored awards. The highlights of the policy includes: With few exceptions, all awards should have some level of measurable effort (and no less than what is required by the program) that is reasonable based on the size and scope of the project. Faculty on a 12-month appointment can devote no more than 95% of their time on sponsored awards Faculty on a 9-month appointment may not charge more than 2.5 summer months on sponsored awards. Note that schools and colleges may allow salary savings from academic year time charged to sponsored awards as summer pay. This portion of the policy is not effective until January 1, 2022. For questions on this policy, please contact Laura Kozma, Associate Vice President for Research Administration. COVID-19 Research Update Updated guidelines for laboratories, research workspaces, and studios align with the CDC’s most recent recommendations and will help us continue our efforts to keep our University population safe. New and Updated Disclosures Due May 31 All full- and part-time faculty are required to answer questions regarding foreign engagements, submit new disclosures, and edit all existing disclosures before May 31, 2021. Contact DRM@miami.edu with questions. Use of Electronic Regulatory Binders for all FDA-Regulated Research starts June 1 While this system can be used for all research studies, it will be required for all new FDA regulated research, starting June 01, 2021. Costs associated with the use of Complion should be included in the budget for industry-sponsored studies. View the full policy here. New Proposal Exception Policy in effect June 1 Beginning June 1, proposals must be submitted to the Office of Research Administration three days prior to the application deadline (five days prior to the deadline for the Small Business Innovation Research and Small Business Technology Transfer programs). Funding & Opportunities Deadline extended: Apply for the U-LINK Affiliated Doctoral Student Fellowship Program by May 10! The University of Miami Laboratory for INtegrative Knowledge (U-LINK) seeks applications from doctoral students who desire to work on such problem-based interdisciplinary scholarship with Phase II U-LINK teams. 2021 Hyundai Hope on Wheels Grant Internal Limited Submission Competition Due May 10 Funding for principal investigators, whose research projects are likely to have a significant impact on improving the understanding of the biology of childhood cancer and/or developing novel diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic approaches for pediatric malignancies. Miami Foundation Pérez CreARTE Grant Program Internal Limited Submission Competition Due May 10 The University of Miami can submit three proposals to the Miami Foundation Pérez CreARTE Grant Program. To apply to this competition, please submit your internal application via InfoReady. Contact Melissa Peerless, Director of Foundation Relations, for more information. NIH/ORIP S10 Instrumentation Programs Internal Limited Submission Competition Due May 14 ORIP's S10 Instrumentation Programs support purchases of state-of-the-art commercially available instruments to enhance research of NIH–funded investigators. Note: Miller School of Medicine faculty have taken lead on this competition. Spinal Cord Injury Research Program Funding The Spinal Cord Injury Research Program (SCIRP) has released a new infographic for the fiscal year 2021 (FY21) grant cycle. It highlights what’s new for FY21, important deadlines, and portfolio investment breakdowns. Pre-applications due May 24, 2021. DoD FY21 Military Burn Research Program (MBRP) Clinical Translational Research Award: Pre-application due June 8, 2021 Idea Development Award: Pre-application due June 8, 2021 2022 Vilcek Prizes for Creative Promise in Biomedical Science The Vilcek Foundation will award three Creative Promise Prizes of $50,000 each to young, immigrant biomedical scientists who demonstrate outstanding early achievement. Applications are open through June 11, 2021. DoD FY21 Kidney Cancer Research Program (KCRP) Concept Award: Pre-application due June 22, 2021 Idea Development Award: Pre-application due June 15, 2021 Postdoctoral and Clinical Fellowship Award: Pre-application due June 22, 2021 Translational Research Partnership Award: Pre-application due June 15, 2021 DoD FY21 Breast Cancer Research Program (BCRP) Breakthrough Award Levels 1 and 2: Pre-application due August 31, 2021 Breakthrough Award Level 3: Pre-application due June 24, 2021 Breakthrough Award Level 4: Pre-application due June 24, 2021 Era of Hope Scholar Award: Pre-application due August 31, 2021 Innovator Award: Pre-application due June 24, 2021 Transformative Breast Cancer Consortium Award : Pre-application due June 24, 2021 DoD FY21 Neurofibromatosis Research Program (NFRP) Clinical Trial Award: Pre-application due July 8, 2021 Early Investigator Research Award: Pre-application due July 8, 2021 Exploration - Hypothesis Development Award: Pre-application due July 8, 2021 Investigator-Initiated Research Award: Pre-application due July 8, 2021 New Investigator Award: Pre-application due July 8, 2021 Synergistic Idea Award: Pre-application due July 8, 2021 Clinical Trials Consortium (Pending Release) DoD FY21 Bone Marrow Failure Research Program (BMFRP) Idea Development Award: Pre-application due July 9, 2021 Investigator-Initiated Research Award: Pre-application due July 9, 2021 NSF Resilient & Intelligent NextG Systems (RINGS) The RINGS program seeks to accelerate research in areas that will potentially have significant impact on emerging Next Generation (NextG) wireless and mobile communication, networking, sensing, and computing systems, along with global-scale services, with a focus on greatly improving the resiliency of such networked systems among other performance metrics. Full proposals due July 29, 2021. DoD FY21 Lupus Research Program (LRP) Idea Award: Pre-application due August 24, 2021 Impact Award: Pre-application due August 24, 2021 Transformative Vision Award: Pre-application due August 24, 2021 DoD FY21 Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy Research Program Idea Development Award (Pending Release) Translational Research Award (Pending Release) NIH Funding Opportunities and Notices for the Week Please Note: Investigators who identify a limited submission grant, award, or fellowship program (one that restricts the number of applications that can be submitted from an institution), should immediately contact Eva Olivares in the Office of the Vice Provost for Research + Scholarship, if interested in submitting a proposal. Failure to do so will preclude routing of the application through the InfoReady system and submission to the funding agency. Office of the Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Vice Provost for Research and Scholarship Dominion Tower, Suite 1205 1400 NW 10th Avenue Miami FL 33136 vprs@miami.edu Related Links Research Lifecycle Learners Key Partners About OVPRS