Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Give to UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap Search Tools People Search Course Search Cane Link myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Give to UM Schools Alumni Roadmap Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links University of Miami Division of University Communications Office of Media Relations Miller School of Medicine Communications Hurricane Sports UM Media Experts Emergency Preparedness Home Search Latest Headlines Students Alumni Faculty School News Thought Leadership Rankings Awards & Honors More Topics Events Miami Herbert About Miami Herbert Faculty and Research Academic Programs Students and Alumni Latest Headlines Events Miami Herbert News@TheU Latest Headlines Life@theU Events Subscribe to News@TheU Newsletter Search Latest Headlines Students Alumni Faculty School News Thought Leadership Rankings Awards & Honors More Topics Events Miami Herbert About Miami Herbert Faculty and Research Academic Programs Students and Alumni News@TheU Latest Headlines Life@theU Events Subscribe to News@TheU Newsletter UM NEWS HOME Home Stories 2020 November School News AAA Miami Herbert ranked #13 nationally for undergraduate entrepreneurship program By Marlen Lebish 11-17-2020 Miami Herbert ranked #13 nationally for undergraduate entrepreneurship program By Marlen Lebish 11-17-2020 The Business School represents the only undergraduate entrepreneurship program in Florida ranked top 15 by The Princeton Review, Entrepreneur Magazine. The University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School offers one of the nation’s best programs for students aspiring to become entrepreneurs, according to The Princeton Review and Entrepreneur Magazine. The joint effort of The Princeton Review, known for its annual college and graduate school rankings and Entrepreneur Magazine ranked Miami Herbert No. 13 on its list of “Top 50 Undergraduate Schools for Entrepreneurship of 2021.” Miami Herbert was the only business school in Florida that ranked top 15 for its undergraduate entrepreneurship program. “It is an honor to be recognized by The Princeton Review and Entrepreneur Magazine,” said Michael Wilson, faculty member and director of entrepreneurship programs at Miami Herbert. “This top ranking truly reflects the incredible entrepreneurs who live and call South Florida home; it also dovetails with experiential and engaging curriculum from world-class faculty where our student stakeholders receive practice and principles." Miami Herbert hosts an annual business plan competition, lead by Wilson, that is open to all University of Miami students and alumni. This year, “Pitch Night,” the first phase of the competition, fell on the same day the rankings were released—today. "The best part is that our students from across our three campuses pitch of their own volition,” said Wilson. “Even during a global pandemic ‘entrepreneuring’ is a dynamic contact sport learned best through doing.” “Given the unemployment rate that has proliferated by the pandemic, people are keener than ever to take ownership of their financial destiny instead of relying on large organizations,” said John Quelch, dean of Miami Herbert. “We expect a significant rise in entrepreneurial interest and a higher number of startups from our students and alumni, especially since we are in Miami, one of the most entrepreneurial cities in the U.S. This ranking recognizes the important role Miami Herbert plays as an economic engine in Miami and nationally.” The Princeton Review chooses the top schools based on a wide range of institutional data it evaluates for this project. In its 60-question survey schools are asked about the percentage of their faculty, students, and alumni actively and successfully involved in entrepreneurial endeavors; the number and reach of their mentorship programs, scholarships, and grants for entrepreneurial studies; and the level of support for school-sponsored business plan competitions. "The schools that made our ranking lists for 2021 all offer exceptional entrepreneurship programs," said Rob Franek, The Princeton Review's editor in chief in a press release announcing the rankings. "Their faculties are outstanding. Their courses have robust experiential components, and their students receive outstanding mentoring and networking support. We strongly recommend these fine schools to anyone considering a college major or graduate degree in this burgeoning field." The full results of The Princeton Review's 15th annual survey can be found at www.princetonreview.com/entrepreneur Miami Business School Apply Now Admission and Application Info Programs Undergraduate and Graduate About Us Learn More Visit Us Miami Herbert Business School Events Calendar topics: Business Entrepreneurship Miami Business School Apply Now Admission and Application Info Programs Undergraduate and Graduate About Us Learn More Visit Us Miami Herbert Business School Events Calendar University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Patti and Allan Herbert Business School 5250 University Drive Coral Gables, FL 33146 USA UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports 'Cane Watch UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search MyUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Get social with Miami Herbert social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2021 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback