Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News Home Read more about News Highlight Recent News from Columbia June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire The Sagol Professor of Brain Science, co-director of Columbia’s Zuckerman Institute, founding director of the Kavli Institute for Brain Science, and senior investigator at the Howard Hughes Medical Institute came to Columbia in the 1950s. Tags FacultyLee C. Bollinger June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones From science to engineering, writing to social sciences, here are the Columbians who received awards recently. Tags StudentsStaffFaculty June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award One of four mid-career researchers selected, Zelevinsky will use the $2 million award to advance the use of molecules to study fundamental science. Tags PhysicsQuantumFaculty More News Videos Celebrating Columbia’s Class of 2022 (and 2021 and 2020)! Who Are Columbia’s Honorary Degree Recipients and How Are They Chosen? View More Videos Celebrating Our Graduates Commencement 2022 POLITICS & SOCIAL JUSTICE The Lastest Episode of the Harriman Institute's Podcast, Voices of Ukraine The Kyiv Independent‘s editor-in-chief Olga Rudenko discusses her reaction to the Pulitzer citation for Ukrainian journalists and what it’s like to cover a war unfolding in her own country. Columbia World Projects Announces New Criminal Justice Initiative Measuring the Impact of Youth Justice Initiatives is a new project that will support New York City youth who have been impacted by the criminal justice system. Jacob Lew Elected To American Academy of Arts & Sciences The former U.S. treasury secretary, one of 261 new members, joined the SIPA faculty in 2017. Five Questions for Professor Kerrel Murray on U.S. Supreme Court Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson The newly appointed Supreme Court Justice has experience in the knottiest areas of law and a strong work ethic, a former law clerk says. More Politics & Social Justice News Research & Discovery Wetlands Won’t Grow Fast Enough to Out Pace Sea-Level Rise The benefits of higher CO2 levels on plants disappear under flooding, a three-decades long experiment by Columbia’s Mailman School of Public Health reveals. The Magic of Building with Mushrooms Fungus-based construction materials could be useful in remote settings or at the scenes of natural disasters, Columbia researcher show. In "Within These Walls," Wayne T. Lee and members of Lenora Lee Dance put on an improv dance performance on Angel Island in San Francisco Bay, where waves of Chinese immigrants first landed in the United States. Photo: Robbie Sweeny Making a Better World: One P-value at a Time Statistics lecturer and amateur dancer Wayne Lee talks about his experience as a Taiwanese-American and explains why he left Silicon Valley to teach statistics and how this corner of mathematics can help us all learn to be more open minded. In a Pair of Merging Supermassive Black Holes, a New Method for Measuring the Void Columbia researchers have discovered a way of sizing up the ‘shadows’ of two supermassive black holes in the process of colliding, giving astronomers a potentially new tool to measure black holes in distant galaxies and test alternative theories of gravity. More Research & Discovery News Arts & Humanities Michael Witgen is a professor in the History Department and the Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race; he is also a citizen of the Red Cliff Band of Lake Superior Ojibwe. A Story of Native Persistence in the Great Lakes Region History Professor Michael Witgen brings the success of the Anishinaabeg to life in his new book, “Seeing Red.” Valentina Izmirlieva, the new director of the Harriman Institute. Meet Valentina Izmirlieva, the New Director of the Harriman Institute The war in Ukraine has affected every aspect of work at the institute, she says, including her plans for the Harriman's future. Olalekan Jeyifous is a Brooklyn-based artist whose work reimagines social spaces that examine the relationships among architecture, community, and the environment. An Architect-Artist Tackles Climate Change and Other Issues With Speculative Projects In an online GSAPP event, Olalekan Jeyifous discussed how his visionary works of Crown Heights and Lagos offer hope for the future. More Arts & Humanities News Find an Expert Media Resources Columbia in the News Do Airline Climate Offsets Really Work? Here’s the Good News, and the Bad. The New York Times, May 18, 2022 Why Is Putin So Oddly Chill About Sweden and Finland Joining NATO? The New Republic, May 18, 2022 Crypto Crash Stokes Some Financial Crisis Fears NBC News, May 17, 2022 Roe v. Wade-Will Women Really Be Jailed for Abortion? Newsweek, May 17, 2022 Faculty Books The Magician By Colm Tóibín The Insider: A Life of Virginia C. Gildersleeve By Nancy Woloch Read Until You Understand: The Profound Wisdom of Black Life and Literature By Farah Jasmine Griffin Our Country Friends By Gary Shteyngart Find More Books Featured Publications graduation-cap icon Columbia Magazine bullhorn icon Columbia Journalism Review lightbulb icon Entrepreneurship and Innovation cogs icon Columbia Engineering Magazine pencil icon Columbia College Today handshake icon Columbia Business Magazine Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close