Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program NC State Names 42 Students to Park Scholarships Program facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Bulletin Board NC State Names 42 Students to Park Scholarships Program May 25, 2022 Mary Cole Pike NC State University is pleased to announce its 27th class of Park Scholars, which includes 42 students representing nine states and 20 North Carolina counties. Established in 1996, the Park Scholarships program brings exceptional students to NC State based on outstanding accomplishments and potential in scholarship leadership, service and character. The program provides a four-year scholarship valued at approximately $116,000 for in-state students and $208,000 for out-of-state students. Biographies of each new Park Scholar are available: Park Class of 2026 “Every day, Park Scholars make a positive difference for others,” said Eva Feucht, director of the Park Scholarships program. “At NC State, Park Scholars receive a world-class education while developing their potential in scholarship, leadership, service, and character. The talented Park Scholars of the Class of 2026 join a vibrant network of 162 students on campus and more than 1,000 Park alumni around the world.” As recipients of one of the most prestigious and comprehensive undergraduate scholarships in the nation, the incoming class of Park Scholars will have access to opportunities for innovative enrichment activities such as grants for undergraduate research and study abroad. The Park Scholarships program is named for the late Roy H. Park ’31, an NC State alumnus who created the charitable Park Foundation which is dedicated to education, media, and the environment. The Park Foundation has committed nearly $150 million to support the scholarship since launching it with an initial grant in 1996. Learn more at park.ncsu.edu. Categories: Academics Bulletin Board Campus Life Service and Community Tags: park scholarships View Comments 0 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * More From NC State News Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Poultry Science’s Curtis Praised for Transformative Leadership Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.