Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News What Is Your Fondest Memory of Your Columbian? Commencement 2022 What Is Your Fondest Memory of Your Columbian? As graduation week is upon us, loved ones reflect on their favorite Columbian’s time at the university. By Caroline Harting May 13, 2022 Photo credit: Eileen Barroso Closing a chapter on one element of life is sometimes a good moment to reminisce. Columbia News reached out to parents, guardians, and partners of Columbians to find out what they remembered and treasured about their child or spouse’s tenure at Columbia. Frances Cheever, mother of Jesse Cheever (GS'22) Jesse Cheever (GS'22), Low Library During the week of Veterans Day, Jesse Cheever took retired U.S. army soldiers and me for a personal tour of Columbia and the Metropolitan Museum of Art. It was the most fabulous day seeing my brilliant son shine with new knowledge, curiosity, and a bright future. Priceless... Lovísa Falsdottír, wife of Gunnar Thorsteinsson (SEAS’22) Gunnar Thorsteinsson with his two children. Moving from Iceland to New York City with our 2-year old and 5-week old son in January 2021. Arriving in our freezing cold and empty apartment that hadn’t had tenants since the beginning of the pandemic. Quarantining with no furniture and thanking God everyday for Uber Eats and other delivery services. The saying: “If you can make it here, you can make it anywhere” is especially true if you’re trying to make it here in the middle of a pandemic! Since then, we’ve had many sleepless nights mainly because of the baby teething, but also sometimes due to Gunnar's studies. All the while, he’s been the same super dad and husband he’s always been! We couldn’t be more proud of him. Til hamingju pabbi! (Congratulations dad – in Icelandic) Janet Holfester, mother of Nicholas Holfester (SEAS'22) Nicholas Holfester with his parents in front of Low Library. Family weekend, pre-pandemic! Renee Kelly, mother of Katherine Kelly (CC'22) Katherine Kelly in her cap and gown. The Lacrosse senior day celebration recognizing Katherine's commitment and dedication to the team while achieving the highest academic standards. And how can we forget her final goal with seconds left in the final game as a CU Lion. Roar Lion Roar! Congratulations! Lakshmi Kosaraju, mother of Chinmayi Balusu (CC'22) Chinmayi Balusu (CC'22) with her parents. We loved being able to explore campus and eat together at John Jay and Ferris dining halls during family weekend in 2019! It was a great opportunity to learn more about the day-in-the-life experience for Columbia students. Thomas Mullooly, father of Caroline Mullooly (BC'22) Thomas Mullooly and his daughter, Caroline Mullooly, eating pizza on the steps of Low Library Enjoying pizza on Low steps on a very clear fall night. Rosa Muñoz, mother of Andrea Muñoz (GSAS'22) Andrea Muñoz (GSAS'22) and Rosa Muñoz My fondest memory is when my daughter chose Columbia over Stanford and was happy to have made that choice. She met so many great friends and has enjoyed her time at Columbia. Not only did she receive her Bachelor’s degree in environmental biology in 2020, but will now receive her Master’s degree from Columbia in ecology, evolution, and conservation biology. My daughter made an excellent choice in choosing Columbia. #roarlionroar Sylvia Palmer, mother of Janine Palmer (CC'22) Janine Palmer (CC'22) When she was accepted on student's day and her absolute joy during the campus visit confirming that Columbia was indeed IT!!! Jane Piercy, mother of Alison Keenan (BC'22) Alison Keenan, center, with friends from the sailing team. This photo is of the Columbia sailing team at the annual event at Faculty House in 2020, right before the pandemic shutdown. Nandini Sharma, “proud mum” of Dhruv Sharma (BUS'22) Dhruv Sharma's montage of Columbia. The day Dhruv was able to attend in-person classes and how proudly he showed me his campus! Hard work is the only currency that works! Thrilled to see his dreams coming true! Get Columbia News In Your Inbox Tags Students News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Media Contact Caroline Harting Director of Social Science and Special Projects Communications [email protected] Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close