Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / Special Series Posted June 25, 2021 COVID-19, Health Science Campus, news, Campus News, College of Engineering, Klein College of Media and Communication, School of Pharmacy Rising to the challenge Temple takes on the global health crisis In March 2020, as cases of COVID-19 continued to spread across the globe, Temple University faculty, students and staff pulled together to respond to the coronavirus pandemic. View the Series keywords As the coronavirus pandemic began spreading throughout the Northeast in the early part of 2020, Temple mobilized its resources and the expertise, fortitude and perseverance of the entire university community in response. In those early days of the pandemic, the Liacouras Center was quickly transformed into a surge medical facility. At the same time, an interdisciplinary task force swiftly assembled to create much-needed personal protective equipment for front-line healthcare workers at Temple University Hospital--who were risking their own lives every day to care for those who had fallen ill. Faculty leaned into an unfamiliar situation--an abrupt switch to remote instruction--and created new ways to deliver an excellent education in digital spaces. The entire Temple family pitched in to help students meet emergency financial needs and to help our neighbors get access to information, healthcare, food, medicine and vaccines. Students volunteered to help local businesses and organizations stay afloat, while Temple researchers rushed to apply their knowledge to efforts that impacted the city, the country and the world. Fighting COVID-19 galvanized our community in innumerable ways. But that wasn't a surprise. Throughout this tumultuous time, one thing--as always--remained constant and carried us through: the ingenuity and determination of Owls who believe perseverance conquers. In this series of stories, you'll read about Temple faculty, staff, students and alumni rising to meet the challenge of a once-in-a-century pandemic with grace and grit. Anonymous Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.