Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Meet Locksmith Jeff Thomas facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program We Are the Wolfpack Get to know some of the 9,000 faculty and staff who work in a wide variety of ways — in every corner of campus and beyond — to make NC State a great university. May 19, 2022 The Gift of a Student’s Trust Monica Osburn is executive director of the Counseling Center, where thousands of students turn each year to find help with anxiety, depression and other problems. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Apr 13, 2022 Cutting Through the Noise NC State poet and professor Eduardo C. Corral untangles the chaos of everyday life — and earns a 2022 Guggenheim Fellowship for his efforts. Apr 7, 2022 Healthy Kids: No Batteries Required In a journey of discovery spanning six decades, Robin Moore has explored the connections between human development and the natural world. His ideas may hold the key to raising healthy children in the digital age. Feb 25, 2022 NC State’s Jane Hoppin Wins Holshouser Award For her work examining the impact of environmental exposures on human health, Hoppin is one of two UNC System employees to be honored. Dec 2, 2021 20 Years of Extending the Reach of Education Kay Zimmerman, the associate vice provost for marketing and partnership development at DELTA, is retiring after two decades dedicated to online and distance learning. Jun 23, 2021 ‘Far From Normal’ Employees who joined NC State during the COVID-19 pandemic reflect on their unique experiences and share what they most look forward to when the university resumes normal operations. Jun 9, 2021 Computer Scientist Wins UNC System Award Veronica Catete is the first NC State staff member to win the award that recognizes exemplary service to both campus and community. Apr 15, 2021 NC State’s Julia Rudolph Wins Guggenheim Fellowship The history professor is honored for her research into the history of gender, law and economics of early modern Europe. Feb 26, 2021 Leading With Intention As the new director of NC State's African American Cultural Center, angela gay-audre sets out to carve a fresh path for its future. Dec 16, 2020 Job Creator, Community Builder Tom White’s work in the Office of External Affairs, Partnerships and Economic Development is helping create opportunity across North Carolina. Oct 1, 2020 Spreading Joy Through Song 'Wolfpack's Got Talent' winner Chernelle Jones says she loves to sing, especially if it brings others 'a little hope and happiness' during difficult times. Sep 1, 2020 ‘The Unifier’ When the pandemic forced most NC State employees to work remotely, Shelly English found a way to bring her dispersed colleagues even closer together. Aug 6, 2020 Chiefly Remarkable With a diverse background in higher ed administration, law, government and communications, Paula Gentius hits the ground running as the chancellor's new chief of staff. Jun 23, 2020 We Are the Wolfpack: Meet Akram Khater The distinguished professor of history spearheads a massive effort to preserve the history and culture of Lebanese Americans. Feb 20, 2020 Meet Locksmith Jeff Thomas The locksmith and his colleagues handle broken locks, stuck doors and other emergencies so that faculty, staff and students can keep moving through the hallways, offices and rooms at NC State. Posts navigation 1 2 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.