Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Researchers Can Tune Mechanical Properties of Radiation-Sensitive Material for Biomedical Use facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: experiential education May 25, 2022 A School of Fishes At a research center in the port town of Morehead City, 18 veterinary medicine students get hands-on experience operating on fish. Jun 27, 2019 Who Is Teaching the Next Generation of Cryptographic Hardware Experts? One researcher's work to prepare the next generation of cybersecurity experts to use post-quantum cryptosystems. Mar 14, 2019 Partnership With Wake County a New Think (and Do) Tank for Harnessing Spatial Data Through a new partnership called Geo-IDEAS, NC State and Wake County are developing innovative approaches to incorporate spatial analysis and decision-making. Oct 8, 2018 Assessing How Florence Affected the Very Ground We Stand On After Florence, experts moved in to assess the damage. NC State's Brina Montoya was one of them. Dec 11, 2017 Using New Technologies to Preserve Wildlife and Wild Spaces NC State and its Namibian partners are using new technologies to better study and protect African wildlife. Aug 4, 2017 Notes from Tanzania: Reflections from the Field and Next Steps Scientists, governments and organizations must collaborate to solve the complex problem of cassava mosaic disease. Aug 1, 2017 Notes From Tanzania: A Farmer’s Story from the Field How interviewing farmers can help researchers in their fight against crop disease. Jul 19, 2017 Notes from Tanzania: Lessons from the Field Some lessons learned from a student doing research on crop disease in Tanzania. Jul 17, 2017 Tackling Cassava Mosaic Disease: One Week in Tanzania A student writes about her fieldwork in Tanzania, tackling a crop disease that threatens millions. Jul 6, 2017 Studying a Disease in Order to Prevent Starvation Research into a disease that affects cassava crops aims to prevent starvation for millions in Africa. Sep 12, 2016 Lightweight, Wearable Tech Efficiently Converts Body Heat to Electricity NC State researchers have developed a new design for harvesting body heat and converting it into electricity for use in wearable electronics. The experimental prototypes are lightweight, conform to the shape of the body, and can generate far more electricity than previous lightweight heat harvesting technologies. Sep 12, 2016 NC State Faculty, Students Unearth Ancient Mythological Statues in Jordan As part of a larger excavation at the ancient city of Petra, NC State faculty and students discovered two marble statues of the mythological goddess Aphrodite. May 11, 2016 Looking for an Oasis in America’s Food Deserts Where does your food come from? For many in the United States, getting nutritious, fresh food is not as easy as making a quick trip to the supermarket. Apr 20, 2016 In Gaming, Player Behavior Reflects Roles – Even When No Roles Are Given New research from NC State finds that player behavior in narrative role-playing games (RPGs) reflects specific character roles – even if the game tells players nothing about the character’s role. Feb 23, 2016 Researchers Can Tune Mechanical Properties of Radiation-Sensitive Material for Biomedical Use An interdisciplinary team of researchers has developed a composite material that emits light and heat when exposed to specific wavelengths of radiation and that can be customized to have specific mechanical characteristics. The composite holds promise for use in biomedical imaging, drug delivery and therapeutic treatments. Posts navigation 1 2 3 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.