Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University cornell.edu Cornell Chronicle Search Cornell University Media Relations Office About Media Relations Working With Us Advisories Tip Sheets In the News MEDIA ALERT: Experts available on war in Ukraine Cornell faculty members are available to discuss the Russian invasion of Ukraine and its implications globally. Cornell Media Relations Office is the university's representative to local, regional, national and international media organizations. Part of University Relations, Media Relations works across the university to connect faculty experts and thought leaders with print, broadcast and digital media. 312 College Ave · Cornell University · Ithaca, NY 14850607-255-6074mediarelations@cornell.edu @CornellMedia Search Top News Women use various tactics to accomplish boardroom goals Women resent compliments about communality at work Target CO2 and non-carbon pollutants to slow climate change Spongy material captures carbon dioxide in cavities June launch for NASA-Cornell tool to view dust from space Policy, farm management help China mitigate climate change 3D-printing robot enables sustainable construction Vine removal technique foils devastating grape disease Self-fulfilling rankings boost agencies’ power, influence Expert Quotes “The more these countries can trade with each other, the stronger economically and strategically they will be. The U.S. walking away from the Trans-Pacific Partnership suggests protectionist forces are strong but focusing narrowly on lowering barriers in the digital economy is an easier lift. This kind of agreement would provide a boon to American companies and help U.S. allies in a strategically important region.” Sarah Kreps Professor of Government More Quotes Featured Video Credit: Ryan Young/Cornell University Carol Anne Barsody, a master’s student in archaeology, is working with electrical and computer engineering student Jack Defay ’22 to create a 3D model of a mummified bird from Cornell’s Anthropology Collections – one of several interdisciplinary collaborations that Barsody has undertaken to research this ancient artifact. Read the article in the Cornell Chronicle. In The News A face search engine anyone can use is alarmingly accurate “If it’s a useful thing to do, to see where our own faces are, we have to imagine that a company offering only that service is going to be transparent and audited,” says Helen Nissenbaum, professor of information science. May 26, 2022 Facebook and Apple are at war, with the biggest battle still on the horizon ”Apple recognizes there is a market for privacy, and consumers’ growing concern,” says Steve Wicker, professor of electrical and computer engineering. “Facebook represents the free-for-all mentality.” May 25, 2022 After forming a union, negotiating a contract can be an uphill battle Kate Bronfenbrenner, senior lecturer in the ILR School, says for employers who've never had a contract before, every issue is a fight. “You're having to negotiate every word.” May 24, 2022 Amber Heard, Johnny Depp and who we choose to believe "When you're presented with information that goes contrary to what you believe, then you actually start thinking more deeply about it in order to counter argue,” says David Pizarro, professor of psychology, who studies how biases affect moral judgment. May 23, 2022 Amazon's first warehouse union marked the true turning point towards 'real change' for workers, says a labor-history professor Ileen DeVault, professor of labor history, says it's Amazon Labor Union's win that could be the tipping point for organized workers. "I've said over and over again that the real change would come when the first Amazon warehouse unionized.” May 22, 2022 Priceless sculptures are ‘literally being chipped away’ Gilmore D. Clarke and Michael Rapuano’s “impact on American space, primarily the New York metro area but by example, cities throughout the United States, was every bit as profound as the impact of Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux, if not more so,” says Thomas J. Campanella, professor of city & regional planning who is writing a book about the pair. May 20, 2022 More In the News Cornell in NYS Tracker promotes consistent learning for incarcerated students Electric sheep: Grazing in arrays supports economy, climate Students recount life-changing CCE internships Cheers! Wine’s red grape pulp offers nutritional bounty Grants fund Cornell AES work to improve lives in NYS Cornell outreach educators combat pests, support pollinators Research on coronavirus Study reveals possible new coronavirus entry points Pandemic increased risks to NYC home health workers: study Group testing could screen entire US, research suggests NSF-funded antimicrobial technology targets COVID-19 U.S. social distancing stabilized, but did not reduce, spread In the fog of pandemic, opportunities to improve risk communication @L_Knewstub RT @CornellMedia: Mike Hoffmann, professor emeritus at @CornellCALS and faculty fellow with @AtkinsonCenter, writes this op-ed about how climate change's impacts on the hamburger. https://t.co/K3iEtuxOWp 22 hours 14 minutes ago @L_Knewstub Women directors on #Fortune500 boards skillfully use tactics that enable them to display warmth, competence or both, allowing them to avoid backlash and meet specific aims, according to new research co-authored by @cornellilr's @CL_McCluney. #womenonboards https://t.co/SV4r0iMwat 22 hours 18 minutes ago @CornellMedia Mike Hoffmann, professor emeritus at @CornellCALS and faculty fellow with @AtkinsonCenter, writes this op-ed about how climate change's impacts on the hamburger. https://t.co/K3iEtuxOWp 23 hours 34 minutes ago @CornellMedia "Can they claim it's a carbon neutral event at this point? Too early," says Fengqi You, professor of energy systems @CornellEng. By @andmills & @jakespring via @Reuters https://t.co/KejzJgpxvI 1 day 2 hours ago @CornellMedia “If it’s a useful thing to do, to see where our own faces are, we have to imagine that a company offering only that service is going to be transparent and audited,” says Helen Nissenbaum, prof of information science. By @kashhill @cornell_tech @CornellCIS https://t.co/VpcnlK4hJa 5 days 2 hours ago Previous Next Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Media Relations 312 College Ave. · Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-6074 mediarelations@cornell.edu @CornellMedia SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON