Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #alumni Health & Society Alumna Dishes Up Her Creative Food Talents on ‘Chopped’ Monday, February 7, 2022, By Kelly Homan Rodoski Alumna and chef Brooke Baevsky ’18 (@inthekitchenwithbae) will combine her passions for food and creativity as she competes on Food Network’s “Chopped” on Tuesday, Feb. 8, at 9 p.m. ET. For the Valentine’s Day-themed competition, Baevsky was paired with another… Media, Law & Policy The Gift of a Professorship to Inspire Generations of Engaged Citizens Tuesday, January 25, 2022, By Eileen Korey When the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs opened in 1924, it included a citizenship curriculum for all undergraduates in the liberal arts. Thirty years later, Merle Goldberg traveled from her home in Maryland to Syracuse University, hoping for… Campus & Community In Memoriam: Charles V. Willie G’57, H’92, A Champion for Social Justice Tuesday, January 18, 2022, By Eileen Korey The legacy of Syracuse University alumnus Charles Vert Willie G’57, H’92 will forever be tied to that of his friend Martin Luther King Jr., making Willie’s passing a week before MLK Day 2022 especially poignant. Willie, who died on Jan…. Media, Law & Policy College of Law Taps Alumnus and Entrepreneur Luke Cooper L’01 as 2022 Commencement Speaker Wednesday, January 12, 2022, By Robert Conrad College of Law has announced that alumnus and Fixt founder and corporate executive Luke Cooper L’01 will serve as its Commencement speaker on May 6, 2022. Cooper is CEO of Latimer Ventures, a partner at San Francisco-based Preface Ventures and… Media, Law & Policy Industry Partnership Allows Newhouse Students to Learn and Work at a New, Cutting-Edge Media Campus Tuesday, January 11, 2022, By Wendy S. Loughlin A professional partnership between the Newhouse School and Great Point Studios will support a unique learning and working experience for television, radio and film (TRF) students at a new, cutting-edge media enterprise. Lionsgate Studios, located just outside New York City in… Health & Society Future Medical Doctors Devoted to Health Equity Thursday, December 16, 2021, By Valerie Pietra Mohamed Khan ’22 is preparing for medical school by integrating natural and social sciences as a double major in public health and history. “As a first-generation college student and student of color, the most important thing I want to do… Media, Law & Policy IAPP, Syracuse College of Law Partner to Present Inaugural Kurt Wimmer IAPP Westin Scholar Award Friday, December 10, 2021, By Martin Walls The International Association of Privacy Professionals (IAPP), the largest and most comprehensive global information privacy community and resource, today announces its partnership with Syracuse University College of Law to present the new annual Kurt Wimmer IAPP Westin Scholar Award in… Health & Society 4 Maxwell Alumni Named NAPA Fellows Friday, November 19, 2021, By News Staff Four Maxwell School alumni are among 39 public administration leaders who have been named 2021 National Academy of Public Administration (NAPA) Fellows. NAPA is an independent, nonprofit and nonpartisan organization established in 1967 to assist government leaders in building more… Veterans Air Force Veteran Stephen Woodard ’70 Returns to Campus With a New Perspective Wednesday, November 17, 2021, By Vanessa Marquette Stephen Woodard ’70, who served as a captain in the U.S. Air Force, was a proud Air Force ROTC cadet as a student at Syracuse University from 1966-70. He earned a degree in English literature from the College of Arts… Campus & Community With Adele’s Assistance, Syracuse Alumnus Proposes to Girlfriend on National Television Wednesday, November 17, 2021, By Kim Infanti Quentin Brunson ’12, G’13 knows he’s set the bar high. Extremely high. The whole world’s talking about his very public proposal to his girlfriend of seven years, Ashleigh Mann, during Adele’s “One Night Only” television concert special Nov. 14 at… 12345678 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.