Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #research Campus & Community 5th Round of CUSE Grants Awards $510,000 to 31 Projects Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Diane Stirling The Office of Research is funding 31 CUSE grant projects this year in the fifth round of annual internal grants. The Collaboration for Unprecedented Success and Excellence (CUSE grants) program is dedicated to growing the Universitywide research enterprise, enhancing interdisciplinary… Media, Law & Policy Funding Expands for Newhouse Professors’ Work on Technology to Combat Fake News Wednesday, May 18, 2022, By Wendy S. Loughlin Two professors from the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications who are working on the development of technology to detect manipulated media and combat the spread of fake news are supported by a subcontract that now tops $1.1 million, thanks… Veterans IVMF Digital Library Launched Wednesday, May 4, 2022, By Cristina Hatem Syracuse University’s D’Aniello Institute for Veterans and Military Families (IVMF), Syracuse University Libraries and the School of Information Studies (iSchool) partnered to create and launch the IVMF Digital Library at divmflibrary.syr.edu. It includes IVMF-authored publications and research, as well as… Campus & Community Over 100 A&S Students Share Work at Undergraduate Research Festival Friday, April 29, 2022, By Dan Bernardi The College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) hosted one of the University’s largest in-person undergraduate research festivals on April 22. The event offered a sneak peek of scholarly possibilities to current and also admitted students who were on campus for… Campus & Community Kiley Jolicoeur, Metadata Strategies Librarian, Selected for LEADING Fellowship Tuesday, April 26, 2022, By Cristina Hatem Kiley Jolicoeur, Metadata Strategies Librarian in the Department of Digital Stewardship, was recently selected for a LEADING fellowship with the Metadata Research Center at Drexel University. The Library and Information Science (LIS) Education and Data Science Integrated Network Group (LEADING)… Campus & Community A&S | Maxwell Students Earn ‘Edge’ in Career-Readiness Monday, April 25, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Fostering career readiness is a hallmark of the College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) | Maxwell School student experience. In fall 2021, A&S | Maxwell launched Edge, a new certification program which allows students to strategically parlay their experiential learning into… Campus & Community Students and Alumna Earn National Science Foundation Graduate Research Fellowships Thursday, April 21, 2022, By Jen Maser Four Syracuse University students have been awarded prestigious graduate research fellowships through the National Science Foundation (NSF) Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP), and two students were recognized with Honorable Mentions. The fellowship recognizes and supports outstanding graduate students who are… Campus & Community Humanities Center Fellowships and Grants Support Graduate Student Research in the Humanities Tuesday, April 19, 2022, By Renee Levy Since opening its doors in 2008, the Syracuse University Humanities Center has supported faculty and graduate student research that highlights the humanities’ relevance within and beyond the academy. Graduate students may apply for competitive Dissertation Fellowships and Humanities New York Public Humanities… STEM SyracuseCoE Awards $30,000 to 3 Local Companies for Product Development, Technology Innovation Sunday, April 17, 2022, By Kerrie Marshall Three New York State companies have been awarded $30,000 in the first round of the 2022 SyracuseCoE Innovation Fund competition. For this round, SyracuseCoE partner companies were invited to submit proposals in SyracuseCoE’s focus areas of indoor environmental quality and… Campus & Community Social Differences, Social Justice Cluster Hosts Inaugural Research Symposium Wednesday, April 13, 2022, By News Staff On March 31, the Social Differences, Social Justice research cluster hosted its inaugural symposium, crossing interdisciplinary boundaries to showcase student and faculty research related to equity, social justice and global transformation. Co-sponsored by the College of Arts and Sciences, Humanities… 12345 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.