Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / Announcements announcement Temple University commits more than $1 million to combat racism Posted Sep 16, 2020 Racism in the United States remains a persistent and urgent problem, stunting opportunity for children and families and cutting lives distressingly short. This summer we asked Valerie Harrison, Senior Advisor for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion, to oversee an effort to identify new ways our university can build on its long-standing effort to combat racism on our campus, in our city and in society at large, and to provide better pathways to opportunity for children in our local community. Based on that effort, we are announcing more than $1 million in new funding that Temple University will spend this year to support anti-racism education and programming. The following are highlights of our ongoing effort. Reinvesting in anti-racism education Temple is an international leader in anti-racism education as home to the prestigious department of Africology and African American Studies, the first department in the United States to offer a doctoral program in the field more than 30 years ago. Today, department Chair, Dr. Molefi K. Asante, our faculty and our doctoral graduates are recognized internationally, including alumnus Ibram X. Kendi, author of the 2019 New York Times Best Seller, How to Be an Antiracist. We have provided funding to hire four additional full-time faculty members and provide much-needed support for scholarship, research and education. Creating the Center for Anti-Racism Research Led by the Department of Africology and African American Studies, this university-wide center will be a resource for impactful evidence-based and solutions-focused research. As the focal point of the university’s research in this area, the center will be a home for collaboration among scholars from across Temple and other universities. Investing in a bridge program for North Philadelphia youth We will develop at Temple a new pipeline of academic enrichment for students in the Philadelphia School District and summer bridge program for students who live in our neighboring North Philadelphia zip codes. This pipeline will include scholarships and other resources to smooth the path from local schools to higher education and meaningful careers. Investing in campus-wide anti-racism training and core curriculum changes We are committed to teaching our students, staff and faculty about racism and ways to combat it in their daily lives. All staff and faculty will be encouraged to complete a new anti-racism training program. Core curriculum for students currently includes a racial diversity course, which we will seek to modify to more directly address issues of racism. All schools and colleges will be asked to review curricula to determine if their programs are adequately preparing students to be proficient in an increasingly diverse world. Bringing the gold standard to Temple Campus Police Former President Barack Obama’s Task Force on 21st Century Policing Final Report is considered the gold standard for modern policing and was produced under the direction of former Commissioner of Philadelphia Police Charles H. Ramsey. We are completing a comprehensive evaluation of Temple campus police policies and practices to ensure that they are consistent with these standards. Prioritizing recruitment and retention of faculty and employees of color The university will enhance its efforts to recruit a more diverse faculty and staff, particularly for those areas with high minority availability but low representation. Building upon our existing assets and programs Temple has significant and long-standing assets and programs designed to dismantle barriers to equal access to education, employment and health care, including but not limited to the Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership (IDEAL), the Charles L. Blockson Afro-American Collection, the Pan-African Studies Community Education Program (PASCEP), the Lenfest North Philadelphia Workforce Initiative, and Temple Health. We will invest additional resources to build awareness of these programs, grow participation and make fundraising for anti-racism work an institutional priority to allow us to extend our current reach. Coordinating engagement The university’s racial equity work includes policies and actions in every part of the university. We applaud the efforts of faculty, staff and students in individual schools, colleges and administrative units who have been engaged in this critical work for decades, for those who are enhancing existing programs and those who are creating new ones. The university will continue to support these efforts. We are thrilled to share these new initiatives and look forward to the important progress we’ll make this year and beyond. Working together, we know that the Temple community can make a difference in the fight against racism for generations to come. Sincerely, Richard M. Englert President JoAnne A. Epps Executive Vice President and Provost Kevin G. Clark Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.