Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / News by topic Posted February 17, 2021 news, Water, water sanitation, Research, College of Public Health Ensuring area residents have safe drinking water A new study from the College of Public Health will examine illness-causing microbes in privately owned wells in six counties surrounding Philadelphia. Photography By: iStock Temple University researchers are studying the health and safety of drinking water in Philadelphia area homes. Environmental regulations protect public drinking water systems, but these public safeguards don’t apply to privately owned wells. For those getting their water from residential wells, which includes thousands of families in suburban areas of Philadelphia, water quality testing is the responsibility of the homeowner. Now, a new study by Temple University’s College of Public Health aims to explore the prevalence of water-borne disease in residential well water in six counties around Philadelphia. The $3.6 million study, called the Wells and Enteric disease Transmission (WET) Trial, is funded by the National Institutes of Health and will run for the next four years. It will give owners of private wells an opportunity to improve the cleanliness of the water their families use and participate in research aimed at making drinking water safer for everyone. “We’re hoping to better understand if drinking well water can cause illnesses in children that can include diarrhea, fever, even respiratory problems. We want to know if treating well water can prevent these illnesses,” said Heather Murphy, who is leading the study. Murphy is director of Temple’s Water, Health and Applied Microbiology Lab and an adjunct research associate professor of epidemiology and biostatistics. Beginning in March 2021, the multiyear study will equip 908 households with free whole-home ultraviolet well water treatment systems installed in a basement or outside of the home. The project is currently recruiting families in Berks, Bucks, Chester, Lancaster, Lehigh and Montgomery counties that have children under four years of age. Learn more about participating in the WET Trial. Read the full story. Anonymous Related Stories The COVID-19 vaccines: explained A $2.5 million grant will help researchers better predict hospital readmission among patients with diabetes Temple researchers identify a cardiac protein that causes heart failure Temple researchers identify potential alternative to opioids for pain Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.