Skip to main content The University of Kansas myKU Email Canvas Blackboard Enroll & Pay A-Z A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z All Academics Athletics Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Your browser must support JavaScript to view this content. Please enable JavaScript in your browser settings then try again. Campuses | Buses | Parking Information Technology | Jobs at KU Finances Tuition | Bill Payments | Scholarship Search Financial Aid | Loans | Beak 'em Bucks Search all KU People Search Course Search Search class sections | Online courses Library Search Libraries | Hours & locations | Ask Advising | Catalog | Tutors Writing Center | Math help room Finals Schedule | GPA Calculator CMS Login: KU Users | Non-KU Users KU Home About KU Admissions Athletics Alumni Campuses Social Media Endowment KU Today The University of Kansas Search form Search this site Home About KU Academics Admission Research Libraries» Outreach News KU Today News archive Media Resources » News Staff » Alerts » Events Menu Home About KU Academics Admission Research Libraries» Outreach News KU Today News archive Media Resources » News Staff » Alerts » Events Search Search form Search this site Home Coronavirus COVID-19 News Study: Hundreds of lives saved in Kansas counties that adopted mask mandates KU Medical Center to participate in clinical trial designed to speed the testing of COVID-19 outpatient treatments KU faculty adjust research to address COVID-19 pandemic KU researchers developing quick-turnaround COVID-19 test Students, faculty and staff across the University of Kansas are actively engaged in responding to the COVID-19 pandemic’s effect on the region and society. COVID-19 vaccine effective in people receiving cancer treatment, study finds May 9, 2022 — People undergoing active cancer treatment, including stem cell transplant, should receive the COVID-19 vaccine, according to a study published in JAMA Oncology and led by a medical oncology professor at the University of Kansas Medical Center. Read more Adaptable, at-home COVID testing device developed at KU receives funding boost Feb. 25, 2022 — Foundation Distinguished Professor Steven Soper has spent much of the last two years repurposing “lab on a chip” technology to address COVID. BioFluidica, a company he co-founded, announced in early February it has received $6 million in Series B2 financing to help bring its LiquidScan instrument to production. Read more Thousands of home COVID home tests sent to 20 Kansas counties as part of COPE, a $13 million grant to improve community health Feb. 22, 2022 — Faculty, staff and students at the University of Kansas Medical Center recently joined volunteers from area middle schools and high schools for one monumental task: labeling, packing and shipping 22,500 COVID-19 rapid home test kits bound for 20 counties in Kansas as part of a new community health initiative. Read more Don't ignore deeper 'Plague Year' anniversary context, professor says Feb. 21, 2022 — As the third year of the COVID-19 pandemic coincides with the 300th anniversary of the publication of Daniel Defoe’s novel “A Journal of the Plague Year,” a University of Kansas professor of English who specializes in literature of that era said there are even stronger continuities between the book and our own time than were first apparent. Read more MORE HEADLINES Study finds global media repeated pandemic xenophobia, also global efforts to fight it Feb. 10, 2022 — China was blamed for the COVID-19 virus with terms such as “Wuhan virus” and “kung flu” used by some in power and repeated in the media. Findings by University of Kansas journalism scholars show the potential danger in naming a disease or health crisis after a geographic location, certain ethnicity or blaming it on certain populations. Read more KU lab leads research on little-studied coronavirus structure, developing antiviral treatment Jan. 27, 2022 — Anthony Fehr began studying coronaviruses as a postdoctoral researcher, focusing on a little-studied structure called the macrodomain. Now a decade later, his lab at KU is in the process of creating the first antiviral therapeutic drug targeting the macrodomain amid the rapid influx of attention the group of viruses is receiving. Read more Researchers land NIH grant to boost testing, vaccination for women leaving incarceration Jan. 19, 2022 — As the omicron variant of COVID-19 rages across the United States and around the world, testing and vaccination are as crucial as ever. Researchers at the University of Kansas and KU Medical Center have received a $2.5 million grant from the National Institutes of Health to develop and refine an intervention to boost testing and vaccination — and knowledge about both — among one of the country’s most vulnerable populations, women leaving incarceration. Read more Safer Classrooms Workgroup, led by KU School of Medicine-Wichita faculty, ends its work Dec. 16, 2021 — Two KU School of Medicine-Wichita faculty members, both of whom are also alumni, played an important role this fall in providing COVID-19 school safety reports as part of a work group created by Kansas Gov. Laura Kelly. Read more Social distancing compliance linked to high voter turnout rates, study finds Nov. 30, 2021 — “Social capital” refers to connections between citizens that generate trust, reciprocity and participation in social and political life. But social capital faces enormous challenges when pitted against a pandemic. In a new paper, a KU political scientist and colleague argue that citizens who exhibit higher levels of social capital are more likely to socially distance. Read more KU study shows political ideology determines health behavior, especially during pandemic Nov. 11, 2021 — A new study from the University of Kansas adds to the evidence that political ideology can be a social determinant of health, especially during public health crises. “What this study shows is political partisanship and ideology seem to be one of the most significant drivers of health behavior when it comes to COVID-19.” Read more KU researcher part of teams developing treatments for COVID-19, other infectious diseases Nov. 11, 2021 — A University of Kansas researcher is at the center of two projects aimed at developing treatments for infectious diseases, including the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes COVID-19. Read more KU-led national health project awarded $600,000 grant to study experiences of people with disabilities affected by the COVID-19 pandemic Nov. 10, 2021 — The National Survey on Health and Disability is a KU-developed survey that has gathered detailed, nationwide information on U.S. adults with disabilities and their experiences with health insurance and health care services since 2018. . Read more KU center appraises Douglas County's response to the COVID-19 pandemic Oct. 22, 2021 — As the pandemic was emerging, there was little understanding of the nature of local public health responses and what enabled them. The KU Center for Community Health and Development partnered with Lawrence-Douglas County Public Health and the Unified Command to better understand the local COVID-19 response. Read more Research at KU Medical Center explores effects of obesity on health and COVID-19 Sept. 28, 2021 —Researchers aren't exactly sure of all the COVID-19 complications for obese patients and whether these patients respond in the same way to therapy and prevention as those with a more average body weight. So, University of Kansas Medical Center researchers are trying two ways to mitigate that threat. Read more At-home COVID-19 test developed at KU moves toward production Sept. 10, 2021 — With the United States facing another surge of COVID-19 due to the Delta variant, an at-home test for the virus developed by researchers at the University of Kansas is moving toward commercial production. The aim is to launch the product in early 2022. Read moreVaccine selfies, when done right, can be effective, ethical way to fight pandemic, scholars argue Sept. 9, 2021 — A group of scholars from the University of Kansas has published a commentary article in the journal Psychology & Health arguing that vaccine selfies, when done properly, can be an effective and ethical way to fight the pandemic, misinformation and share positive experiences. Read more Project chronicles how the pandemic changed community newspapers' business model Aug. 24, 2021 — In the early days of the pandemic, community newspapers faced a nonstop news cycle and new challenges in providing vital information to their readers. At the same time, the pandemic presented a financial crisis as advertising revenue declined. A University of Kansas researcher has co-created an oral history of how newspapers in the middle of the country demonstrated resilience in the crisis. Read more Professor pivots from Kenya to Kansas (and back again) to serve global health needs in pandemic July 8, 2021 —KU Medical Center Professor Sarah Finocchario Kessler adapted a program she used in her HIV research in Africa to help health departments in Wyandotte and Johnson counties as they assisted those with COVID-19. Kessler then offered that same adaptation to her health care partners in Kenya. Read more Study to assess post-vax COVID-19 antibodies in patients with cancer July 1, 2021 —To help fill in the knowledge gaps between patients with cancer and the COVID-19 vaccine, Qamar Khan, MD, director of The University of Kansas Cancer Center’s breast program, launched an investigator-initiated trial called Cancer therapy and Immunogenicity of COVID Vaccine. Read more KU Medical Center assists community partners in launching campaign against COVID-19 in multiple languages across Kansas June 22, 2021 —Community health workers and health equity teams across Kansas have partnered with the University of Kansas Medical Center to launch a multimedia campaign "Community Health Workers Beat the Virus" in seven different languages to encourage COVID-19 testing and vaccination among under-resourced populations. Read more Women leaving jail have high vaccine hesitancy; health app reduces resistance, boosts literacy June 14, 2021 —New research finds high rates of vaccine hesitancy among women transitioning from incarceration, due to a multitude of reasons, including low health literacy, lack of trust in authorities, and misconceptions about COVID-19 and the vaccine. An online app developed by KU researchers to boost health literacy among this population may be an efficient and cost-effective way to address multiple health topics. Read more Study: Parler provided echo chamber for vaccine misinformation, conspiracy theories June 1, 2021 — A new study shows people flocked to Parler to discuss the vaccines in an echo chamber-type environment, and those conversations can shed light about how to communicate about vaccine efficacy during health crises. Read more New research model reveals how contagion spreads among network of connected people May 24, 2021 — A new paper links the spread of misinformation and disease by postulating a single model to study both cases. The new model and associated algorithms can be used to understand potential consequences of policies designed to control or spread contagion among a network of connected people. Read more Pandemic’s effects on health inequity revealed in new report May 17, 2021 — Amanda Shriwise, visiting assistant professor of sociology, is an author of a report published by the World Health Organization Regional Office for Europe. One of the report’s key findings is this socioeconomic impact happens through multiple mechanisms. Read more Study: Students with disabilities show resilience that could guide post-pandemic education May 11, 2021 — Researchers interviewed students with disabilities about their experiences during the pandemic and found that students relied on their own strengths, resilience and self-determination. Read more College athletes in supportive programs coping better with pandemic, study shows May 3, 2021 — Like much of society, college athletics were thrown into disarray by the COVID-19 pandemic. While student athletes were suddenly prevented from competing, training or seeing as much of their teammates and coaches, those who perceived they were part of a positive sporting environment also coped better during the early days of the crisis, a new study from the University of Kansas has found. Read more Massive negative impact of COVID-19 on cancer screenings quantified in KU Medical Center faculty study April 29, 2021 — Nearly 10 million cancer screenings in the U.S. failed to happen because of the COVID-19 pandemic, according to a KUMC faculty study published in JAMA Oncology. Read more Research shows creative students sensed global catastrophe coming, had increased anxiety April 21, 2021 — KU researchers working with creative students noticed much higher rates of anxiety, depression and suicidality among creative adolescents as far back as 2014. When asked about their negative feelings, the students pointed to a sense of impending worry about a global environmental catastrophe, the erosion of democracy and other international ills. Read more KU researchers to study safety effects of pandemic on in-home, long-term care providers April 1, 2021 — The COVID-19 pandemic has increased demand for in-home long-term services and supports while also increasing risk of transmission. Researchers will examine challenges to those who receive and provide the support, how they have adapted and how in-home services can adjust, both to the current situation and for the future. Read more Scholars examine effects of pandemic on social welfare field, education March 15, 2021 — Social workers are trained to help people in times of crisis. But what happens when those professionals are experiencing a crisis along with the rest of society? KU social welfare researchers and students have created a body of work about the COVID-19 pandemic's effects on their education, well-being and profession. Read more US, Chile followed similar, politicized paths in pandemic, study shows March 8, 2021 — New research from mass communications scholars found that similarities between the the U.S. and Chile extend beyond the evolution of the pandemic. They include social unrest, knowledge about COVID-19, use and trust in sources of information, and trust in scientists and the government. Read more Addiction researchers recount how they made recovery meetings available remotely during pandemic Jan. 21, 2021 — The pandemic has made it nearly impossible for mutual-help recovery groups to gather in person. University of Kansas researchers have published their experience making SMART Recovery groups available via computer and telephone to the community in Douglas County. Read more COVID-19 rapid test under development at KU moving closer to commercial readiness Jan. 20, 2021 — An at-home COVID-19 test developed by researchers at the University of Kansas is moving toward commercial production. “We've been talking to venture capitalists and large existing companies to help facilitate this translation that is taking the test out of the laboratory and moving it into the marketplace." Read more Two new monoclonal antibody outpatient treatments for COVID-19 target older people and those with additional medical conditions Jan. 13, 2021 — Two new monoclonal antibody treatments for outpatients with COVID-19 are being tested at the University of Kansas Medical Center. Known as BRII 196 and 198 and produced by Brii Biosciences, these investigational treatments are both monoclonal antibodies designed to block the ACE receptor, the protein that enables the virus to enter human cells, in the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Read more Publication shows pandemic not a shared experience for LGBTQ youths Dec. 15, 2020 — “We’re all in this together” has been a common refrain during the COVID-19 pandemic. It turns out that’s not the case for many LGTBQ youths, as University of Kansas researchers illustrate in a new publication. Read more Bench science steps into the spotlight during the pandemic Dec. 7, 2020 — As the public gets a unique glimpse of that reality as experts continue to grapple with the dangerous viral illness, Adam Rouse, an assistant professor and director of basic research in the Department of Neurosurgery, senses more appreciation for basic science as well as growing frustration. Read more KU Cancer Center researchers discover men fighting both cancer and COVID-19 at higher risk than women Nov. 19, 2020 — Men with cancer and COVID-19 may be at significantly higher risk for severe symptoms and even death as compared to females fighting both, a University of Kansas Cancer Center research team has found. Read more KU Medical Center lead nursing home interactive network in Kansas To improve COVID-19 infection control and more Oct. 30, 2020 — The campus was chosen as a training center in Kansas for a nationwide interactive virtual initiative that will share best practices to improve COVID-19 infection control, safety and preparedness in skilled-nursing facilities. Read more American Lung Association picks KU Medical Center as research hub for COVID-19 Oct. 21, 2020 — The Airways Clinical Research Centers Network, the research arm of the American Lung Association, named the University of Kansas Medical Center a consortium hub. The change will give KU Medical Center the responsibility to mentor and lead other universities in its group in lung-health research, including COVID-19 research.. Read more NIH-funded effort seeks to improve COVID-19 testing in underserved communities across 10 Kansas counties Oct. 9, 2020 — The University of Kansas Medical Center has been chosen as one of 32 institutions nationwide to receive a grant from the National Institutes of Health through the RADx-UP program to support projects designed to rapidly implement COVID-19 testing strategies in populations disproportionately affected by the pandemic. Read more KU researchers developing quick-turnaround COVID-19 test Sept. 29, 2020 — A University of Kansas team is repurposing “lab on a chip” technology — developed to give doctors simple tools to more easily and quickly diagnose conditions ranging from stroke to colon cancer — to develop a quick-turnaround COVID-19 test that can be used at home. Read more KU partnering with 3 Kansas counties to effectively use COVID relief funds for community needs Sept. 23, 2020 — A diverse group of University of Kansas scholars, researchers, staff and students has been helping three Kansas counties — Johnson, Miami and Wilson – determine how to spend more than $44 million in federal COVID-19 funds by the end of 2020 to have a lasting influence. Read more KU Medical Center to participate in clinical trial designed to speed the testing of COVID-19 outpatient treatments Sept. 22, 2020 — The University of Kansas Medical Center will be participating in a unique nationwide clinical trial that will allow for the testing of multiple agents to fight COVID-19. Known as ACTIV-2 (Adapt Out COVID), this trial is part of the Accelerating COVID-19 Therapeutic Interventions and Vaccines effort announced by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) this spring. Read more Pilot grants launch new research projects to fight COVID-19 pandemic Aug. 24, 2020 -- With support from the University of Kansas School of Medicine and the vice chancellor for research at the University of Kansas Medical Center, four investigators have launched new research projects designed to help fight the COVID-19 pandemic. Read more New publication examines ‘Food in the Time of COVID-19’ Aug. 18, 2020 -- Few processes have been as disrupted by the pandemic as simply eating a meal. A KU food historian is among the scholars behind “Food in the Time of COVID-19,” which details how those in the industry – from farmers and restaurant employees to home cooks and activists – are dealing with the pandemic. Read more Researchers pivot from cancer and cystic fibrosis to test new drug for COVID-19 Aug. 14, 2020 -- Cancer researcher Gregory Gan and cystic fibrosis researcher Deepika Polineni have begun enrolling patients in a clinical trial to evaluate a new investigational drug as a potential treatment to halt respiratory failure in patients hospitalized with COVID-19. Read more KU research into online security for public internet users expands to examine effects of COVID-19 July 30, 2020 -- A recent University of Kansas study found that while Kansas survey participants relied on multiple sources about reliable COVID-19 information, they tended to prefer local authorities and distrust social media. Read more KUMC, Children's Mercy to offer clinical trial of AstraZeneca vaccine for COVID-19 July 29, 2020 -- While some institutions and organizations are just now fully embracing telehealth, the University of Kansas Medical Center is nearly 30 years into the journey, and the institution is helping its partner, The University of Kansas Health System, and others across Kansas, harness the innovation's power and possibilities. Read more KU program tracing COVID-19 in wastewater provides early warning to Kansans of virus spread July 22, 2020 -- The School of Engineering and the Kansas Department of Health and Environment have expanded a project to detect COVID-19 virus in the wastewater systems of local communities across the state. The original project launched this spring looked for evidence of the virus in a dozen Kansas communities. This summer, that roster has expanded to 18 communities, including some in western Kansas. Read more Researchers join with Lawrence-Douglas County Public Health to monitor and evaluate COVID-19 response July 8, 2020 -- A team from the Center for Community Health and Development has partnered with Lawrence-Douglas County Public Health and other community organizations to track and assess the countywide public health response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Read more Study gauges how Kansans get information on COVID-19, how they assess risk June 30, 2020 -- A recent University of Kansas study found that while Kansas survey participants relied on multiple sources about reliable COVID-19 information, they tended to prefer local authorities and distrust social media. Read more KU Medical Center helps expand use of telehealth during pandemic and beyond June 24, 2020 -- While some institutions and organizations are just now fully embracing telehealth, the University of Kansas Medical Center is nearly 30 years into the journey, and the institution is helping its partner, The University of Kansas Health System, and others across Kansas, harness the innovation's power and possibilities. Read more Lab in KU Medical Center incubator switches to coronavirus test to meet community need June 11, 2020 -- Sinochips Diagnostics, a private laboratory operating on the campus of the University of Kansas Medical Center, is performing a critical service as one of 27 laboratories in Kansas running diagnostic tests for the virus fueling the pandemic. Read more KU researchers lead effort to monitor, evaluate COVID-19 response in 47 African countries June 9, 2020 -- The World Health Organization Regional Office for Africa is partnering with KU’s Center for Community Health and Development to capture and communicate COVID-19 response activities, such as programs and policies related to infection-control and risk communication. Read more KU, CVKey Project to pilot new app developed to assist communities with reopening responsibly June 4, 2020 -- As the University of Kansas begins to reopen parts of campus, it will participate in a pilot project to test a health verification mobile app called CVKey. The app allows users to conduct a self-assessment of their COVID-19 health status at home and then generate a QR code to verify their access to campus buildings. Read more Drug therapy recently authorized under emergency-use protocol for COVID-19 contains crucial ingredient from KU June 1, 2020 -- When the Food and Drug Administration issued an emergency-use authorization for the investigational pharmaceutical remdesivir to treat COVID-19 on May 1, in part it was due to pioneering work performed by pharmaceutical chemists at the School of Pharmacy in 1990. Today, KU graduates still hold important jobs at the firms producing and distributing the potentially life-saving therapy. Read more Study shows vulnerable populations with less education more likely to believe, share misinformation May 19, 2020 -- As the COVID-19 pandemic threatens public health around the world, misinformation regarding its treatment, causes and cures has abounded. A KU study found that vulnerable populations, often those most severely affected by such crises, are also at a high risk of consuming and sharing such misinformation online, while also struggling to assess information’s credibility. Read more Research associate creates face shields on KU Medical Center printer May 15, 2020 -- Christopher Neal used the 3D printer in the Kansas Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities Research Center to make around 100 headbands for face shields to PPE for KC, a local maker group constructing and dispersing protective equipment for health care professionals. Read more High tech connects scattered piano majors to campus, instructors May 14, 2020 -- When the COVID-19 pandemic shut down the University of Kansas campus in March, the piano teachers in the School of Music turned to a technological solution that they say has been a low-cost “lifeline” for students stranded in various places across the country. Read more KU researchers harnessing power of stories to help Kansans navigate pandemic May 11, 2020 -- KU’s Center for Public Partnerships & Research has reactivated Our Tomorrows to understand how Kansans are responding to the COVID-19 crisis. Information gathered through the statewide story bank is being shared in real time with decision-makers. Read more KU Cancer Center pivots to protect patients and trial participants in COVID-19 era May 7, 2020 -- The research arm of the KU Cancer Center stepped up to allow patients to opt-in to a study that provided the test in recent weeks and also covered its cost. It is just one of the many ways the KU Cancer Center is working to fight the pandemic. Read more KU, KDHE partner to trace COVID-19 in wastewater treatment plants May 4, 2020 -- The School of Engineering and the Kansas Department of Health and Environment are teaming up on an experiment to determine if the COVID-19 virus can be detected in the wastewater systems of Kansas communities. Read more KU respiratory therapy students graduate early to help during coronavirus pandemic May 4, 2020 -- Thirteen of the 22 seniors in the respiratory therapy program in the University of Kansas School of Health Professions have chosen to graduate early to help fend off the shortage of professionals in the field. Read more Researchers model efforts to control coronavirus pandemic with new NSF RAPID award April 30, 2020 -- A University of Kansas team is developing mathematical models to project how an array of interventions to stem the spread of COVID-19 might succeed or fall short in “flattening the curve.” Their work is unique because it accounts for human behavior. Read more Medical students volunteer, give back to Wichita community amid pandemic April 27, 2020 -- Several KU School of Medicine-Wichita students volunteered to assist with child care for Wichita health care professionals. Some fourth-year medical students received permission to graduate early to join the Kansas Pandemic Volunteer Workforce. Others have been delivering Meals on Wheels across Wichita. Read more KU Law pop-up clinic to offer free legal services to health care workers April 27, 2020 -- Under the umbrella of the KU School of Law’s Medical-Legal Partnership (MLP), the Advance Care Planning Clinic will help workers complete vital legal documents. Read more KUMC delivers COVID-19 information to Kansas City’s Spanish-speaking population April 22, 2020 -- The JUNTOS Center for Advancing Latino Health at KU Medical Center, whose mission is to eliminate health disparities in under-served Latino communities in Kansas, is working to deliver COVID-19 information to these communities in their native language. Read more School of Engineering produces personal protective equipment to aid health care workers April 22, 2020 -- KU Engineering is innovating to design alternative equipment based on the need and the constraints — such as raw materials — to make them more comfortable and easier to use for longer durations. Read more Talks feature experts on disease modeling and policy-making April 22, 2020 -- "Mapping a Virus: From Understanding a Species to Writing Policy on COVID-19" is a collaboration among The Commons, the KU Biodiversity Institute and the Institute for Policy & Social Research. The series is accessible through four videos online followed by a live conversation with the presenters on April 28. Watch Podcast: Coronavirus was not engineered in a lab April 14, 2020 -- This "When Experts Attack!" episode is another interview with coronavirus researcher Anthony Fehr, who helps dispel more misinformation about the virus. Listen KUMC to participate in clinical trial of hydroxychloroquine in health care workers April 13, 2020 -- The trial, the Healthcare Worker Exposure Response and Outcomes of Hydroxychloroquine (HERO HCQ), will launch April 22. It is a phase-3 double-blinded clinical trial, funded by the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute. Read full story Project to reduce restaurant food waste continues during COVID-19 crisis April 13, 2020 -- Once restaurant business returns, KU researchers are poised take national a project aiming to reduce food waste and food insecurity, which is coming into sharper focus as jobs disappear during the pandemic. Read full story Researchers donate protective equipment to KU Health System April 8, 2020 -- Researchers from the University of Kansas Medical Center donated much-needed equipment to help their colleagues at The University of Kansas Health System currently caring for patients with suspected or confirmed cases of COVID-19. Read full story KU medical students to graduate early, help COVID-19 response in rural Kansas April 3, 2020 -- More than 50 University of Kansas medical students are graduating early to participate in a program that will deploy them throughout the state to respond to the coronavirus pandemic. The program will allow seniors to serve in areas of “critical need" before their residencies start in July at various locations throughout the country. Read full story Autism and interrupted routines: KU offers advice for families, caregivers April 2, 2020 -- The sudden change to daily life in response to the spread of COVID-19 can be difficult for anyone, but for someone who has autism spectrum disorder, it can be an extraordinary disruption. University of Kansas researchers will offer a webinar for families on April 10, “Managing the Coronavirus as an Individual with ASD or Caregiver.” Read full story KU team creates open-source design for plastic face shield April 1, 2020 -- The KU Center for Design Research has developed an open-source design for a plastic face shield to help protect health care workers battling the COVID-19 pandemic. In just a few days, it has been freely downloaded around the world more than 4,500 times. And 10,000 of the shields already produced locally will soon be available to caregivers in The University of Kansas Health System. Read full story Designers have been planning for outbreaks for years March 31, 2020 -- Who could have foreseen the tragic consequences of the novel coronavirus pandemic that threatens to overwhelm America’s hospital system, and in particular, emergency departments? A lot of folks, including Frank Zilm, University of Kansas professor of architecture & design, who has worked on the problem for nearly two decades, and whose Institute of Health and Wellness Design exists to ponder such questions. Read full story KU creates general emergency fund as part of COVID-19 response March 20 -- As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to affect the Jayhawk community, many people are wondering what they can do to help. In response, KU Endowment is establishing a COVID-19 Emergency Relief fund. Read full story KU Institute for Policy and Social Research releases COVID-19 webinar series Professor Donna Ginther and Institute for Policy & Social Research staff released a series of videos on “Kansas in Crisis.” These videos present data surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic, including historical comparisons to the 1918 influenza pandemic, policy strategies for reducing spread, and the effects of the pandemic on the economy. View the series JAYHAWKS REACHING OUT From students to alumni to staff and beyond, Jayhawks are rising to the challenges of the pandemic. For Kansans: Longstanding relationships with state agencies enabled the Center for Public Partnerships & Research to pivot to supporting responses for the governor and the Recovery Office. A private laboratory on KUMC's campus is one of 27 Kansas laboratories running diagnostic tests for COVID-19. Through remote learning, the KU Midwestern Music Camp reached nearly 1,000 Kansas musicians and nearly 1,000 other students from around the globe. The School of Engineering and the Kansas Department of Health & Environment are teaming up to test wastewater for the presence of COVID-19 in local communities. The Center for Public Partnerships and Research is capturing Kansans’ stories of coping with the pandemic now to inform tomorrow’s policies. Research departments across KU donated COVID-19 testing supplies to the Kansas Department of Health & Environment. The Institute for Policy & Social Research is tracking the impact of COVID-19 on the state. The KU School of Law is offering free legal services to essential workers in health care settings. For K-12 schools and parents: Lessons about earthquakes from the Kansas Geological Survey and a video about frogs from the Kansas Biological Survey are available to anyone online. Teams with Ci3T, led by KU researcher Kathleen Lane, are developing materials to support educators and families make the transition to schooling online. Additionally, the Dole Institute of Politics is providing free online educational programs. For small businesses and entrepreneurs: Will Katz, director of the KU Small Business Development Center, is helping small business owners navigate Small Business Administration loan programs. The Spencer Museum of Art and partners are providing $120,000 in emergency aid for artists adversely affected by the coronavirus pandemic. MORE OUTREACH For professionals: The School of Architecture & Design helped the American Institute of Architects create a searchable resource to support development of alternative care sites that support pandemic response. For patrons: While galleries and exhibitions are closed, KU's museums are open for business. The Natural History Museum from Home and Spencer Art at Home are taking curators and researchers off campus. The Lied Center is streaming concerts. For our community: The KU Medical Center is delivering COVID-19 information in Spanish to Kansas City communities. The School of Pharmacy mixed and distributed 200 bottles of hand sanitizer for local health and child care workers. The Departments of Chemistry and Molecular Biosciences donated equipment to area health agencies. The Center for Community Outreach is giving away free fabric to volunteers who want to make and donate face masks. The Community Tool Box put together resources for public health and community action. The KU Medical Center is delivering COVID-19 information to Spanish-speaking communities in and around Wyandotte County. Social Media KU College of LA&S @KUCollege In episode 16 of Unwinding, we chat with Steven Soper about his team’s work to develop a quick-turnaround COVID-19 test that shows results in 15 minutes. ⤵️ open.spotify.com/episode/6ZkYx1… CPPR @CPPRMedia We're proud to be trusted partners and honored to participate in work that has a positive impact on the lives of our fellow Kansans. Learn more about CPPR’s role in COVID-19 response efforts: bit.ly/BlogCovidRespo… KU Pharmacy @KUPharmacy KU School of Pharmacy Pharm.D. students have worked throughout the pandemic and are now helping Kansas healthcare workers administer the COVID vaccine. We are proud of their professionalism and confident that the future of Kansas pharmacy is in good hands. #service KU Experts KU researchers are available to media to speak to their expertise in various areas related to COVID-19 and the global response. Anthony Fehr, Department of Molecular Biosciences Expert on coronaviruses, anti-viral measures Joe Walden, School of Business Expert on supply chain challenges Donna Ginther, Institute for Policy & Social Research Expert on economic impact on Kansas MORE EXPERTS ChangHwan Kim, Department of Sociology Expert on pandemic's disproportionate effect on Asian American unemployment Jeffrey Hall, Department of Communication Studies Expert on changing patterns of communication during pandemic Bradley Lane, School of Public Affairs and Administration Expert on the consequences of reduced travel during the pandemic Raj Bhala, School of Law Expert on international trade law and policy amid COVID-19 James Basham and Sean Smith, Department of Special Education Expert on online education, instructional models, and educational technology for students with disabilities Christopher Perreira, Department of American Studies Expert on race, racism and communicable disease in public health discourse Frank Zilm, School of Architecture & Design Expert on hospital and health care facility design Minyoung Kim, School of Business Expert on implications of uncertainty in business decisions Scott Reinardy, School of Journalism Expert on financial challenges and stresses the pandemic is placing on already struggling news outlets Stephen Ilardi, Department of Psychology Expert on depression and author of "The Depression Cure" David Slusky, Department of Economics Expert on economics of health care and hospitalization Experts in the News National media outlets are using KU experts to provide information and perspective on the pandemic. The New York Times: How to nudge people into getting tested for the coronavirus Derek Reed, Department of Applied Behavioral Science The San Francisco Chronicle: SARS antibodies block coronavirus infections, study shows Anthony Fehr, Department of Molecular Biosciences The Wall Street Journal: Rethinking the hospital for the next pandemic Frank Zilm, School of Architecture & Design MORE NATIONAL NEWS COVERAGE Financial Times: US university to trial COVID-19 checker app linked to campus access Brian McClendon, School of Engineering The New York Times: Monster or Machine? A Profile of the Coronavirus at 6 Months Anthony Fehr, Department of Molecular Biosciences The Irish Times: Science and the humanities in the time of pandemic Kathryn Conrad, Department of English Houston Chronicle: Experts offer input on the safety of outdoor graduations during pandemic Anthony Fehr, Department of Molecular Biosciences MarketWatch: How coronavirus will transform K-12 schools in the fall Yong Zhao, School of Education Business Insider: 'Cytokine storms' that cause the body to attack itself might be a key factor in deadly coronavirus cases Anthony Fehr, Department of Molecular Biosciences Inside Higher Ed: Protecting art in college collections Saralyn Reece Hardy, Spencer Museum of Art U.S. News & World Report: College class of 2020 will graduate into wobbly economy Donna Ginther, Department of Economics and Institute for Policy & Social Research Axios: Medical students graduate early to join coronavirus front lines Fourth-year students, School of Medicine The Los Angeles Times: Too many ‘shiny objects’: Why it’s risky to promise a coronavirus vaccine and cure Anthony Fehr, Department of Molecular Biosciences St. Louis Post-Dispatch: Pandemic puts Americans' patience, flexibility to the test Jerome Dobson, Department of Geography and Atmospheric Science Salon Kirk McClure, School of Public Affairs & Administration Wired: Hospitals quickly reshape to treat COVID-19 patients Frank Zilm, School of Architecture & Design CNN: Artists may need a Depression-era jobs program today Maryemma Graham, Departments of English and African American & African American Studies National Public Radio "The Takeaway" Sean Smith, Department of Special Education Roll Call: Technology to track COVID-19 raises fears of mass surveillance William Staples, Department of Sociology Forbes: Your property taxes are likely still due; but your lender might have you covered David Simon, School of Law International Business Times: Hunger for 'good news' grows as pandemic woes deepen Ashley Muddiman, Department of Communication Studies Axios: Tracking epidemics from space Towne Peterson, Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology Quartz: Congress approved $350 billion for small business. Where’s the money? Will Katz, School of Business Forbes: Protect healthcare workers: 3D printer groups race to help 2020 PPE shortage Greg Thomas, School of Architecture & Design PBS NewsHour: The switch to remote learning could leave students with disabilities behind Sean Smith, Department of Special Education Expert podcast The COVID-19 vaccines are revolutionary (37 minutes) 'Essential' workers have concerns in common with those in another industry (25 minutes) U.S. emergency rooms aren't ready (30 minutes) MORE EPISODES What we can learn from school closures caused by coronavirus (38 minutes) You can avoid depression in a pandemic, Part 2 (27 minutes) You can avoid depression in a pandemic, Part 1 (40 minutes) Feeling lonely? It’s not social media’s fault (17 minutes) Coronavirus was not engineered in a lab;(40 minutes) Advice from the Experts KU subject-matter specialists offer tips on dealing with the pandemic. Leadership Daily from KU: 15-minute webcasts to enhance professional skills Lee Stuart, KU Professional & Continuing Education Advice for small businesses during the pandemic Will Katz, Kristina Mease and Taylor LaRue, KU Small Business Development Center Learning, teaching from home during COVID-19 Ph.D. in Educational Leadership and Policy Studies MORE ADVICE Five lessons to help you move your conference online Stacy Cordell, KU Professional & Continuing Education Autism Spectrum Disorder and interrupted routines: Advice for families and caregivers Rene Jamison, KUMC Center for Child Health and Development in Pediatrics Learning at home: Five tips for success Ci3T Strategic Leadership Team Contact The University of Kansas 785-864-2700 1450 Jayhawk Blvd. Lawrence, KS 66045 785-864-2700 Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Foursquare Pintrest All social media at KU » Academics Admissions Alumni Athletics Campuses Contacts CMS Login Giving Jobs Maps