Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Columbia faculty, students, and staff are on the cutting edge of advancements in all fields and their work is thus justly awarded and recognized. Below, find recent accomplishments and milestones as well as bi-monthly lists of recent awards. Want your accomplishment to be included? Email [email protected]. Want these announcements in your inbox? Subscribe to Columbia News newsletters. SPOTLIGHT Four Columbians Win Guggenheim Fellowships Columbia’s 2022 Truman Scholars 14 Columbia University Affiliates Awarded Fulbright U.S. Student Grants Recent Awards & Milestones Adrienne Minh-Châu Lê says that she "wants the next generations of Vietnamese Americans to be able to know our history, to reconnect with the pain and beauty of it, and to understand who we are and why we are here.” Awards & Milestones History PhD Student Receives a 2020 Paul & Daisy Soros Fellowship for New Americans April 14, 2020 Adrienne Minh-Châu Lê, the daughter of Vietnamese refugees, is writing a dissertation on the Vietnamese Buddhist anti-war movement. Top, from left to right: Dilip da Cunha, Robert Gooding-Williams and Lesley Sharp; bottom, from left to right: Caroline Weber, Taylor Brook and Camille Robcis. Awards & Milestones Meet the New Crop of 2020 Guggenheim Fellows April 09, 2020 Four Columbia and two Barnard professors have been awarded the prestigious fellowships. The Marshall Scholarship was established to strengthen the relationship between the British and American peoples, governments and institutions. Illustration: Nicoletta Barolini Awards & Milestones Two Columbia Students Named 2020 Marshall Scholars December 10, 2019 Seniors Amar Bhardwaj and Young Joon Kim are among 46 American college students from across the country selected this year for the award. University Professor Joseph E. Stiglitz has had a busy year, traveling around the world talking about progressive economics, the new era of globalization and the impact of technology on social and political realities. Awards & Milestones The Year of Joseph Stiglitz, From New York to Paris December 03, 2019 The Nobel laureateis spending the fall semester as the Alliance Visiting Professor at Sciences Po, where he was recently honored Awards & Milestones Mr. New York, Easy Rider and Historian: Kenneth T. Jackson November 14, 2019 For a half century, Kenneth T. Saidiya Hartman wins 'genius' award. Photo courtesy of the John D. & Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Awards & Milestones Saidiya Hartman Awarded MacArthur 'Genius' Grant September 25, 2019 The University congratulates Hartman, Professor of English and Comparative Literature, on this prestigious recognition, as well as two alumni recip Lil Nickelson (left), a Columbia Community Scholar and a writer for Harlem World Magazine, and Ramona Prioleau (right) of FraMiaTi, a philanthropic natural skincare company based in Harlem, are all smiles at the anniversary reception. Both women are SBDC alumnae. Awards & Milestones 10 Years of Nurturing Harlem Business Entrepreneurs July 30, 2019 The Columbia-Harlem Small Business Development Center (SBDC) celebrated its 10th year anniversary supporting entrepreneurship in Harlem at the Lenf Reuters reporters Wa Lone and Kyaw Soe Oo express their gratitude at the 2019 Pulitzer Prize luncheon for the support they received during their imprisonment in Myanmar. Photo By Eileen Barroso Awards & Milestones A Celebration of Journalism, Free Speech and the Arts. Plus Special Guests. May 28, 2019 Hundreds gathered at Columbia University for the 2019 Pulitzer Prizes award luncheon. Awards & Milestones Two Professors Win Major Architecture Awards May 08, 2019 Mabel O. Wilson and Mario Gooden are honored for their work exploring the African diaspora. The world-renowned geoscientist is recognized for revolutionizing the world of isotopes. Photo: Eileen Barroso Awards & Milestones Earth Institute Director Alex Halliday Honored with Knighthood February 05, 2019 Years before Alex Halliday joined Columbia’s Earth Institute as its director, he was changing the field of geochemistry. Courtesy of NASA Awards & Milestones Columbia Astrophysicist Receives 2019 New Horizons in Physics Prize October 19, 2018 Brian Metzger, an associate professor of astrophysics, has won a 2019 Breakthrough New Horizons in Physics Prize for pioneering predictions of the Photo courtesy of Columbia University Awards & Milestones Columbia Neuroscientist Rafael Yuste Awarded Eliasson Global Leadership Prize October 17, 2018 Rafael Yuste, a professor of Biological Sciences at Columbia University, has been awarded the Eliasson Pagination First page« First Previous page‹ Previous Page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Current page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next pageNext › Last pageLast » Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close