Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Summer Snaps 2021 Friday, August 6, 2021, By News Staff Share Simon Perez, associate professor of broadcast and digital journalism in the Newhouse School, on vacation in Big Sky, Montana. Summer is here–let’s see what the campus community has been doing this summer. Riley Waters, son of Heather Waters, assistant dean for advancement in the School of Education, and Dean Clippard, son of Drew Clippard, international student advisor in the Center for International Services, enjoy treats while watching a screening of “The Sandlot” at the New York State Fairgrounds. Heather Flaherty, center, administrative assistant in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, is pictured with her daughter, Shannon Kirkpatrick, below, a junior in the Newhouse School, and Shannon’s roommate Kourtney Jeffers, a second-year student in the College of Law, during a kayak trip off the coast of Maui. Pat Burak G’96, third from left, assistant professor of Russian literature in the College of Arts and Sciences, together with family and friends, visited Soyuzivka, the estate of the Ukrainian National Association in Kerhonkson, New York. Among the group was Burak’s daughter Anna Read ’13, center, and husband Bill Prusinowski ’81 (far right). Dina Ioannidis, office coordinator in the Graduate School, traveled to Greece with husband Nik and sons Stavros, Dimitri, Angelos and Stefano. The trip allowed the boys to discover where their grandparents grew up. Kivanç Avrenli, assistant teaching professor of finance in the Whitman School of Management, visited Glacier National Park in Montana. Sara Garvey, associate director of corporate relations in the Whitman School, hiked Bald Mountain in Old Forge, New York, with sons Keegan, 9, and Shawn, 4. Lynn Greenky, associate professor of communication and rhetorical studies in the College of Visual and Performing Arts, visited Powell’s City of Books in Portland, Oregon. Ethan Gunther, a sophomore in the Newhouse School, visited his great-grandmother, Sarah Gabriel, in North Carolina. Mrs. Gabriel recently celebrated her 101st birthday. Susan Keeter ’84, G’89, wife of Seth Tucker G’94, G’19, director of global safety and support, and mother of Sara Tucker ’21, is pictured outside the childhood home of President Joseph Biden L’68 in Scranton, Pennsylvania. She is holding rocks she painted with Biden’s likeness and a tribute to Syracuse University. The sun sets at Pemaquid Point Lighthouse in New Harbor, Maine. Pictured at right is Dennis Rodoski ’14, husband of Kelly Rodoski, senior communications manager in Communications. Vicki R. Smith, assistant director for student services in the College of Visual and Performing Arts, visited Alaska. Author News Staff Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Uncategorized “Syracuse University to rename the Carrier Dome – what name would fans choose?” Beth Egan, associate professor of advertising in the Newhouse School, was quoted in the CNY Central story “Syracuse University to rename the Carrier Dome – what name would fans choose?” Egan, who specializes in strategic communications and advertising, discussed why… Syracuse Views Spring 2022 We want to know how you experience Syracuse University. Take a photo and share it with us. We select photos from a variety of sources. Submit photos of your University experience using #SyracuseU on social media, fill out a submission… “Can the Working Class End PMC Environmentalism?” Matthew Huber, professor of geography and the environment in the Maxwell School, was interviewed for the Diet Soap Media Podcast episode “Can the Working Class End PMC Environmentalism?” Huber, who studies climate politics, discussed his new book that unpacks the failures… Breen authors piece on Samuel Alito Jenny Breen, associate professor of law in the College of Law, authored the Common Dreams opinion piece “The ‘Raw Judicial Power’ of Samuel Alito Is an Attack on Dignity, Autonomy, and Progress.” Breen, who teaches Constitutional law, discussed the leak… “Governors Island’s New Orchard Is a Treasure Trove of Rare Fruits” An art installation created by Sam Van Aken, associate professor of studio arts in the College of Visual and Performing Arts, was featured in the Thrillist story “Governors Island’s New Orchard Is a Treasure Trove of Rare Fruits.” Van Aken, who… Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.