Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #Diversity and Inclusion Media, Law & Policy Rockell Brown Burton Joins Newhouse School as Associate Dean of Inclusivity, Diversity, Equity and Accessibility Monday, May 23, 2022, By Wendy S. Loughlin Rockell Brown Burton, an experienced academic leader and accomplished researcher with a passion for cultivating impactful, mutually beneficial relationships, has been named associate dean of inclusivity, diversity, equity and accessibility at the Newhouse School. After a national search, she was… STEM Biology and Earth and Environmental Sciences Departments Come Together on Diversity and Engagement Initiatives Tuesday, May 17, 2022, By News Staff In 1948, Professor James Hope Birnie became Syracuse University’s first African American faculty member in biology, teaching here until 1951. He was also one of its first biology faculty members to be supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIH)…. Campus & Community Helping Students Celebrate Identity During Asian American and Pacific Islander Heritage Month Thursday, April 28, 2022, By John Boccacino Each April, the Syracuse University community comes together to celebrate and honor our Asian American and Pacific Islander students, faculty and staff during Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) Heritage Month. The monthlong festivities were researched and planned out by… Campus & Community Q&A With Interim Co-Chairs of the Academic Leadership for Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Accessibility Thursday, April 28, 2022, By News Staff As part of the commitment to making Syracuse University a place that is welcoming and inclusive to all, each academic unit has a designated diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility (DEIA) leader. These DEIA leaders report to either a dean or… Campus & Community Open House and Panel Discussion on Doctrine of Discovery to Be Held April 16 at Skä•noñh – Great Law of Peace Center Thursday, April 14, 2022, By News Staff Members of the campus community are invited to the Skä•noñh – Great Law of Peace Center on Saturday, April 16, for an open house, lunch and panel discussion titled “The Doctrine of Discovery: The Most Influential ‘Law’ You’ve Never Heard… Campus & Community University Seeking Nominations for Student of Color Advisory Committee Tuesday, April 12, 2022, By Christine Weber Syracuse University is seeking student nominations for the Student of Color Advisory Committee, the student group tasked with collaborating closely with the Department of Public Safety (DPS). This committee, which originated in Fall 2018 with the idea of bringing students,… Campus & Community Campus Community Invited to Join in Disability Pride Week Events April 18-23 Tuesday, April 12, 2022, By News Staff Syracuse University’s inaugural Disability Pride Week will be April 18-23, 2022. The week includes a host of events and activities to celebrate and learn from people with disabilities and their lived experiences. Disability Pride Week is a campuswide initiative and… Campus & Community Diane Schenandoah—Honwadiyenawa’sek—Offers University Community Healing Opportunities Rooted in Indigenous Principles Thursday, April 7, 2022, By Kelly Homan Rodoski Diane Schenandoah ’11 grew up in a longhouse within a large, close-knit family on the Oneida Nation in Madison County. Her mother was a Wolf Clan Mother of the Oneida Nation, and her father was a Beaver Clan Pine Tree… STEM Life Trustee Nick Donofrio G’71, H’11 Receives 2022 International Peace Honors Award Wednesday, April 6, 2022, By Alex Dunbar Nicholas “Nick” Donofrio G’71, H’11, a Syracuse University Life Trustee, was one of the distinguished award recipients at the 2022 International Peace Honors on Feb. 27. The International Peace Honors celebrates the most outstanding global leaders and change agents of… Campus & Community Mary Grace A. Almandrez Named Vice President for Diversity and Inclusion Tuesday, March 22, 2022, By News Staff Syracuse University Chancellor Kent Syverud today announced the appointment of Mary Grace A. Almandrez to the position of vice president for diversity and inclusion. Almandrez brings with her nearly 25 years of experience in higher education, having served in leadership… 12345 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.