Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Good with left brain but invested in right as well Community by design Campus Good with left brain but invested in right as well Campus & Community Good with left brain but invested in right as well Brian Bertrand plans to use what he learned from his degree in statistics and in Harvard’s Theater, Dance & Media program to help arts organizations maximize their success. Kris Snibbe/Harvard Staff Photographer Brian Bertrand to take statistics degree to business world but eventually use experiences to lift arts organizations By Colleen Walsh Harvard Staff Writer DateMay 18, 2022May 18, 2022 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Also in the Series Triple the joy Time of ‘democracy in crisis’ Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Embracing the moment Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers View all of Commencement 2022 This story is part of a series of graduate profiles ahead of Commencement ceremonies. Brian Bertrand has been following two very different paths, one focused on the arts, the other devoted to quantitative data. But he plans to combine them to drive real change. The native New Yorker hopes to use what he learned in Harvard’s Theater, Dance & Media program (TDM) and studying for his degree in statistics to help arts organizations maximize their success. “Ten or 15 years down the road when I’ve built up enough experience, I’d like to pivot from business to arts consulting,” said Bertrand, “because that’s an area where I really think I can make a difference in the way they’re managed and supported, financially and otherwise.” Science was a natural fit for Bertrand. The son of two engineers, with two older brothers interested in STEM, it was only a matter of time before he embraced the scientific method. It didn’t take long. He delighted in the science kits he received as a child and loved competing on middle and high school Science Olympiad teams, building miniature cars powered by mousetraps or fishing rods. An interest in the arts blossomed a little later. Bertrand was part of the debate team as a teen, and the experience on stage inspired his interest in high school plays and musicals. Then came a summer trip to Hong Kong to study art. “With the addition of theater, with the addition of art,” he said, “I realized I wanted to include that more in my life.” When considering colleges, Bertrand found Harvard’s emphasis on liberal arts education matched his desire to “learn as much as possible about as many things as possible.” Still, as a student he worried about how his love for the arts would fit with his passion for the sciences. Then he found the TDM program. Memories of the introduction to acting class he took his first year are still fresh in his mind. Taught by a dynamic lecturer, Johnny Kuntz, it was filled with students with a range of interests, all eager to engage, and he said it left him better prepared to navigate the world. “Being able to quickly adapt to changing information, that’s an improv skill right there,” he said. “Being able to actively listen and participate, that’s just acting. When you are in a production, you have to actively listen to your scene mate and respond … all these skills are so transferrable to other areas of your life.” Statistics classes gave Bertrand, a math whiz, an entirely different set of tools. He calls Stephen Blyth “one of the best lecturers I’ve ever had” and an “icon in the field of quantitative finance and statistics,” and agrees with those who say Blyth’s statistics class on quantitative finance changes how you look at the world. “It’s 100 percent true,” said Bertrand. “Probability rules our lives.” During his Harvard time Bertrand blended his statistics courses with more classes in TDM. A sports fanatic, he also explored how home-field advantage helps NFL teams; he acted in a number of student shows; and served as a peer advising fellow helping incoming students transition to College life. “It’s one of the most rewarding things I’ve done on campus,” he said of his advising role. Like all members of the class of 2022, Bertrand’s Harvard time was interrupted by the pandemic. He opted out of Zoom theatrical productions, but he kept engaged with his acting friends and even moved back to Cambridge last year to live with his block mates and be close to school. Debra Levine, who directs TDM’s undergraduate studies program, said the arts need more people like Bertrand who understand “how central the arts are to the world at large.” Bertrand recognizes that while statistics can “observe and record what is happening, and make certain kinds of predictions,” he knows the arts “observe human behavior in a much different way,” she said. Levine said she loved working with Bertrand and that he helped her see the value of TDM in a new light. “I feel like he’s given me real insight into the potential for TDM at Harvard … that it really does help us create so many allies so that the future of arts and arts in education is really ensured.” With a job lined up in New York City after graduation, Bertrand’s focus will be on management consulting for the near future. He’s interested in business school, but his long-term goal, he said, is to take what he’s learned in the business world and apply it to the arts. “It’s something I just care deeply about doing, because theater, just as a human experience, there’s nothing really comparable,” he said, “and it needs to be supported.” Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Also in the Series Triple the joy Time of ‘democracy in crisis’ Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Embracing the moment Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers View all of Commencement 2022 Up Next Campus & Community Community by design Campus & Community Community by design “We aim to inclusively engage the entire alumni community across disciplines, decades, Schools, and geographies. It’s a collaborative endeavor …,” says Allyson Mendenhall ’90, M.L.A. ’99, the incoming HAA president. Photos by Kris Snibbe/Harvard Staff Photographer