Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program NC State Rises to 4th Place on List of Best Employers facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Resilient Pack NC State Rises to 4th Place on List of Best Employers NC State's resilient faculty and staff keep their faith in the university's mission, driving the institution up five spots on an annual survey of North Carolina's best places to work. August 26, 2021 David Hunt The challenges of a global pandemic have done little to dampen the passion NC State faculty and staff bring to the mission of the university. In fact, employees doubled down on their assessment of NC State as a great place to work, propelling the university to fourth place on a list of the top employers in North Carolina, up from ninth place last year. The annual survey, conducted by Forbes and the market research company Statista, ranks America’s best employers in each state. The list is based on anonymous surveys of 80,000 Americans working for businesses with at least 500 employees. Respondents were asked to rate their employers on a variety of criteria, including workplace safety, compensation, opportunities for advancement and options for telecommuting. Statista also asked respondents how likely they’d be to recommend their employer to others. The survey was conducted between October 2020 and June 2021. Software giant Microsoft tops the North Carolina list, followed by Duke University, SAS Institute, NC State and biotech firms Merck and Pfizer. WakeMed, IBM, the Duke University Health System and Cisco Systems round out the top 10. Focus on Flexibility In an article announcing the survey results Forbes said the COVID-19 pandemic tested American employers in unprecedented ways. “Many of the top employers on the list are taking a more flexible view of, well, flexibility,” the article said. “The prolonged period of remote work during the pandemic has proven that, for many jobs, people can be just as productive from home.” That is certainly true at NC State, where both employees and supervisors are proving to be inventive and resilient as they adapt to new ways of working, while staying focused on the core mission of education, research and service. The university has supported employees during the pandemic by offering tips and tools for working remotely and by providing virtual health and wellness sessions to help them cope with challenges such as stress and anxiety. NC State has also launched a voluntary shared leave program — allowing employees to donate annual leave to colleagues who have run out of paid time off. And it has expanded professional development opportunities and refreshed the employee recognition program. A Post COVID-19 Innovation Steering Committee is exploring how NC State can continue to take advantage of flexible work arrangements and make the best use of university space to meet the changing needs of the university workforce. Proud of the Pack “No one at NC State has any illusions about how tough this past year has been,” says Chancellor Randy Woodson. “But it doesn’t surprise me at all to learn that our employees have come through these difficult months with an even deeper commitment to our mission and even more respect for this institution. I can’t tell you how proud I am of our entire Wolfpack community.” The Forbes survey results are consistent with a survey of faculty and staff conducted by the UNC System in 2020, in which 84% agreed they are “proud to be a part of this institution” and 89% said they understand how their work contributes to the university’s mission. Other UNC System institutions on the Forbes list include UNC Greensboro, at 31st place; UNC Charlotte, at 40th; and East Carolina University, 51st. UNC-Chapel Hill is ranked 25th, up from 53rd place last year, and UNC Health Care is ranked 28th. Industry leaders ranked among the top 50 employers in North Carolina include Duke Energy, 15th; FedEx, 23rd; Apple, 26th; PepsiCo, 39th; and Nike, 50th. Categories: Campus Life Faculty and Staff HR and Finance Resilient Pack Service and Community Tags: COVID-19 human resources rankings resilient pack View Comments 0 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * More From NC State News A Profitable Pivot Thriving Together NC State Dining Rallies to Provide Quarantine Meals for Students Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.