Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Ask The Expert: Can I Discuss the Impeachment Inquiry in My Classroom? facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: education Apr 22, 2022 Research Through an Equitable Lens Recognizing the importance of a fair and just society, researchers at NC State prioritize equity in their diverse fields. Mar 3, 2022 Sense of Belonging Helps High School Students Engage with STEM Making classrooms feel more inclusive is key to promoting STEM education. Sep 9, 2021 Uncertainty on Climate Change in Textbooks Linked to Uncertainty in Students A study by an NC State researcher found textbooks that portray climate change as uncertain can influence students. Sep 3, 2021 What is the Future of Desegregation in N.C. Public Schools? Researchers discuss factors that could impact whether North Carolina public schools can deliver on the promise of the U.S. Supreme Court’s landmark Brown v. Board of Education decision. Jul 29, 2021 NC State, NSF Unveil Institute Focused on Artificial Intelligence and the Future of Education A new NSF-funded institute will focus on creating AI tools to help people learn. Jul 27, 2021 Political Discussions Focused on Consensus More Comfortable, Less Divisive for Students A study led by an NC State researcher found more U.S. high school students felt respected in a political discussion designed as a deliberation. Jul 27, 2021 Views on School Assignments, Diversity Are Similar – Even in Cities with Segregated Schools The public favors diversity and efforts to desegregate schools. Jun 1, 2021 How To Engage Students in Addressing Global Problems NC State researchers challenged 11th graders to find solutions to address the global problem of clean water access. Apr 29, 2021 Science Books Boost Beginning Readers’ Skills An NC State researcher was part of study that used science books on Arctic animal survival to teach first graders to read. Apr 16, 2021 Is Your Workload Fair? At Universities, It Depends on Who You Ask A new study co-authored by an NC State researcher reveals differences in faculty perceptions of how fairly work is distributed in higher education. Aug 26, 2020 Lessons for Educators on Teaching Climate Change Researchers found a strategy to teach students climate change, but also saw outside beliefs influence learning. Aug 4, 2020 Back to School: Helping Children Cope With Change Across the state and country, students and their parents are preparing for the return of the school year amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Experts at NC State offered tips to help ease the transition for parents and caregivers. Feb 5, 2020 Improving AI’s Ability to Identify Students Who Need Help A new AI model is better able to predict how much students are learning in educational games. Jan 14, 2020 Online Programs Advance in Rankings NC State's online master's programs in engineering, information technology, business and education score among the best in the nation on an annual survey by U.S. News. An online bachelor's degree program jumps 19 spots. Dec 4, 2019 Ask The Expert: Can I Discuss the Impeachment Inquiry in My Classroom? Paula McAvoy, faculty member in social studies education, shares reasons teachers should address sensitive political issues, including the impeachment inquiry, in the classroom and offers advice on facilitating discussions. Posts navigation 1 2 … 6 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.