Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community Student Representatives to the Board of Trustees Have Been Named Monday, May 16, 2022, By News Staff Share Board of TrusteesfacultystaffStudents Alexis Telga L’23, a third-year law student in the College of Law, has been named as the law student representative to the Board of Trustees, and Dylan Blaine France ’24, a junior majoring in finance in the Whitman School of Management and minoring in global political economy in the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs, has been named as one of two undergraduate representatives to the Board of Trustees. David Bruen ’23, a senior in the College of Arts and Sciences and the Maxwell School, was reelected as president of the Student Association and will serve a second term as an undergraduate student representative to the Board of Trustees. Yousr Dhaouadi ’17, a doctoral student in the Department of Biomedical and Chemical Engineering in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, was reelected as president of the Graduate Student Organization and will serve a second term as the graduate student representative to the Board of Trustees. These student representatives are joined by academic dean representative Craig Boise, dean of the College of Law; faculty representative Lori Brown, professor of architecture and director of diversity, equity and inclusion in the School of Architecture; and staff representative Maithreyee (Mai) Dubé ’96, ’16, G’17, who leads the enrollment team at the D’Aniello Institute for Veterans and Military Families (IVMF), as the representatives to the Board of Trustees for the 2022-23 academic year. These representatives of the campus community share their diverse perspectives and insights with the Board and its various committees and serve as vital voices in helping the University implement strategic objectives in support of its mission and vision. Craig Boise Craig Boise Boise came to Syracuse University in 2016 as dean of the College of Law and professor of law, bringing extensive experience in academic leadership and a passion for innovation in legal education. In his years as dean here and at Cleveland State University’s Cleveland-Marshall School of Law, he established one of the nation’s two largest hybrid online J.D. programs, the first online joint J.D./MBA program, one of the earliest master of legal studies programs for non-lawyers, the nation’s first law school-based incubator for solo practitioners and a “risk-free” J.D. program granting a master’s degree in law to students who elect not to pursue a law career after successfully completing their first year of law school. Boise was appointed to the Advisory Council of the newly formed American Bar Association Legal Education Police Practices Consortium, where he leads efforts that promote better policing practices throughout the United States. Prior to his academic career, Boise practiced tax law. He earned a law degree from the University of Chicago and a bachelor’s degree in political science summa cum laude from the University of Missouri-Kansas City. He also engaged in real estate and police work before pursuing a law career. Boise is serving the second year of his two-year term as academic dean representative during the 2022-23 academic year. He participates, ex officio, on the Board of Trustees’ Academic Affairs Committee, and reports to the Board at Executive Committee and full Board meetings. Lori Brown Lori Brown Brown is an architect, professor of architecture (since 2001) and director of diversity, equity and inclusion in the School of Architecture. Prior to teaching, Brown worked as an architect in New York City and remains focused on the relationship between architecture and social justice issues, especially gender and its impact on spatial relationships. She co-founded and leads ArchiteXX, a women and architecture group bridging the academy and practice, that fosters, mentors and creates opportunities for women architects, designers and students of all ages. Brown received a bachelor of science degree from the Georgia Institute of Technology and a master of architecture degree from Princeton University. She was recently honored with The Architectural League’s 2021 Emerging Voices award, given to individuals and firms with distinct design voices that have the potential to influence the disciplines of architecture, landscape architecture and urban design. Brown was elevated to the American Institute of Architects (AIA) College of Fellows in February 2022. Brown is serving the second year of her two-year term as faculty representative during the 2022-23 academic year. She participates, ex officio, on the Board of Trustees’ Academic Affairs Committee, and reports to the Board at Executive Committee and full Board meetings. Maithreyee (Mai) Dubé Mai Dubé Dubé leads the enrollment team at the IVMF, collaborating with program managers and field partners in assessing the entrepreneurial, education and training needs of veterans and military family members to identify the best programs to help them transition from service to civilian life. Prior to joining IVMF in October 2015, Dubé worked at Syracuse University’s School of Education for three years in the teaching and leadership department managing twelve graduate programs. Previously, Dubé worked with New Horizons of Syracuse and Rochester where she was responsible for the development and facilitation of classes in leadership and professional development. She also worked in the financial services industry as a senior learning and performance specialist and a banking officer. She currently serves on the Board of Trustees at The Gifford Foundation. Dubé holds a bachelor’s degree in psychology, an MBA from the Whitman School and a certificate of advanced study in conflict resolution from the Maxwell School. Dubé is serving the second year of her two-year term as the inaugural staff representative during the 2022-23 academic year. She reports to the Board at Executive Committee and full Board meetings. Because of her experience in enrollment services, she also participates, ex officio, on the Board’s Enrollment and the Student Experience Committee. David Bruen ’23 David Bruen Bruen is studying political science and policy studies in the College of Arts and Sciences and the Maxwell School and is serving a second term as president of the Student Association. Bruen was previously speaker of the assembly as well as Board of Elections Chair for the Student Association. Bruen is also a Phanstiel Scholar and has been deeply involved in local politics in his hometown of West Nyack and Rockland County, New York. He interned with his state senator and congresswoman, fueling his passion for public service and government. In 2017, he earned the prestigious rank of Eagle Scout, having participated in scouting from the age of 6. Bruen serves as one of two undergraduate student representatives to the Board for the 2022-23 academic year, his second year in this role. He will participate, ex officio, on the Board of Trustees’ Enrollment and the Student Experience Committee and will report to the Board at Executive Committee and full board meetings. Yousr Dhaouadi Yousr Dhaouadi Dhaoudi is a fifth-year Ph.D. chemical engineering candidate in the Department of Biomedical and Chemical Engineering. She is serving her second term as the Graduate Student Organization (GSO) president, having previously served as GSO comptroller and financial secretary. Dhaouadi is an international student from Tunisia who lived in the United Arab Emirates prior to coming to Syracuse University. She transferred from American University of Sharjah in the UAE in 2015 as an undergraduate in chemical engineering, earned a bachelor’s degree in 2017 and then enrolled in the Ph.D. program in 2018. She is conducting research in Professor Dacheng Ren’s lab with a focus on understanding persister cells residing in biofilms and its involvement in the resistance of chronic bacterial infections. Dhaouadi will serve a second term as the graduate student representative to the Board for the 2022-23 academic year. She will participate, ex officio, on the Board of Trustees’ Academic Affairs and Enrollment and the Student Experience Committees and will report to the Board at Executive Committee and full Board meetings. Alexis Telga Alexis Telga Telga is a third-year law student in the College of Law. She is a student-attorney in the transactional law clinic and a legal communications and research teaching assistant for Adjunct Professor Kristen Walker. She is also the administrative editor for the Journal of International Law and Commerce. Prior to attending the College of Law, Telga served on the Board of Trustees at her undergraduate institution, Keuka College. Her board obligations were accompanied by several other leadership responsibilities, including her service as both the senior class and student body president of the college. As the law student representative to the Board for the 2022-23 academic year, Telga will participate, ex officio, on the Board of Trustees’ Academic Affairs and Enrollment and the Student Experience Committees and report to the Board at Executive Committee and full Board meetings. Dylan Blaine France Dylan Blaine France France is a junior majoring in finance in the Whitman School and minoring in global political economy in the Maxwell School. She is a Whitman Leadership Scholar and a member of the Renée Crown Honors Program. France was recently named a junior analyst in the Orange Value Fund. She is a finance board member with the Syracuse Student Association and a Whitman representative in Assembly. Additionally, France is the secretary and a founding member of the Syracuse University Black Student Union. In her many areas of service and engagement, France acts as a voice for her fellow students and an advocate for change. She is committed to transparency in financial reporting; diversity, equity, inclusion and accessibility initiatives; and equitable University policies. France will serve as one of two undergraduate student representatives to the Board for the 2022-23 academic year. She will participate, ex officio, on the Board of Trustees’ Enrollment and the Student Experience Committee and will report to the Board at Executive Committee and full Board meetings. Author News Staff Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.