Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links University of Miami Division of University Communications Office of Media Relations Miller School of Medicine Communications Hurricane Sports UM Media Experts Emergency Preparedness Home Search News@TheU Explore Topics Latest Headlines Academics Arts and Humanities People and Community Research University All Topics A to Z Related Links Subscribe to Daily Newsletter Social Networks For the Media Find University Experts Contact Us Life@TheU News and Info People and Culture Benefits and Discounts More Life@TheU Topics About Life@the U Connect and Share Events All Events Faculty and Staff Events Student Events TheU Creates (Arts and Culture Events) Undergraduate Students: Important Dates and Deadlines Submit an Event Miami Magazine News@TheU Life@TheU Events Miami Magazine More News Sites Admissions Alumni College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering DCIE Frost School of Music Miami Herbert Business School Miller School of Medicine School of Architecture School of Communication School of Education and Human Development School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science School of Nursing and Health Studies The Graduate School Student Affairs Search News@TheU Explore Topics Latest Headlines Academics Arts and Humanities People and Community Research University All Topics A to Z Related Links Subscribe to Daily Newsletter Social Networks For the Media Find University Experts Contact Us Life@TheU News and Info People and Culture Benefits and Discounts More Life@TheU Topics About Life@the U Connect and Share Events All Events Faculty and Staff Events Student Events TheU Creates (Arts and Culture Events) Undergraduate Students: Important Dates and Deadlines Submit an Event Miami Magazine More News Sites Admissions Alumni College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering DCIE Frost School of Music Miami Herbert Business School Miller School of Medicine School of Architecture School of Communication School of Education and Human Development School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science School of Nursing and Health Studies The Graduate School Student Affairs UM NEWS HOME Home Social AAA Connect and Share Thanks for stopping by Life@TheU, our resource-packed website dedicated to anyone and everyone who works at the University of Miami. Along with sharing the latest news, alerts, announcements, tools, tips, and trending topics that will help you power through your day, here you’ll learn more about employee perks, benefits and discount programs, policy updates, leadership initiatives, and general happenings in and around the U. Life@TheU is all about one U We get it. Life and work at the University of Miami looks very different depending on where you’re standing (or sitting). From offices to research labs and classrooms, operating rooms to shark infested waters, there’s no telling what each day has in store. In fact, the University does so much, in so many different locations, that it can be hard to digest it all. Despite our different roles, locations, and tenures, employees at the U are working together at each of our three campuses and numerous satellite locations to make a positive impact on the world around us. There’s no way to know exactly what will happen next. But when it happens, Life@TheU is here to keep you in the know. How to find us Keep in touch regularly by reading employee-focused content in the daily news email, News@TheU. Find us on Instagram [@lifeattheu], Facebook [@lifeattheu], and Twitter [@lifeat_theu], and tag us in your posts #lifeattheu. We love to see what your slice of life at the U looks like. Download the UMiami mobile app—available for iOs and Android—and stay connected. Find Life@TheU stories, social media posts, and quickly access a number of University resources while logged in to the faculty and staff user persona. Share your ideas Are we missing something? Let us know about your fellow ’Canes who go above and beyond, topics that are important to you, and the information that you need to live your best life as a ’Cane. Looking to announce something big or share an event with the UM community? Submit a story or announcement. Note from the Editor: Not all submissions will appear on Life@TheU or in the daily publication, News@TheU. Inclusion is at the editor’s discretion and content may be subject to editing for brevity and clarity. Submissions must be received at least three business days prior to preferred run date. Feel free to reach us at lifeattheu@miami.edu. University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami News Sub Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search MyUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback