Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links University of Miami Division of University Communications Office of Media Relations Miller School of Medicine Communications Hurricane Sports UM Media Experts Emergency Preparedness Home Search Latest Headlines Awards Biomedical Civil, Architectural and Environmental Electrical and Computer Industrial Mechanical and Aerospace Events Social College of Engineering About Academics Departments Students Research Alumni & Giving Resources Latest Headlines Events Social College of Engineering News@TheU Latest Headlines Life@theU Events Subscribe to News@TheU Newsletter Search Latest Headlines Awards Biomedical Civil, Architectural and Environmental Electrical and Computer Industrial Mechanical and Aerospace Events Social College of Engineering About Academics Departments Students Research Alumni & Giving Resources News@TheU Latest Headlines Life@theU Events Subscribe to News@TheU Newsletter UM NEWS HOME Home Stories 2019 January Students Engineer Innovation AAA Students Engineer Innovation By Matthew Perez 01-07-2019 Students Engineer Innovation By Matthew Perez 01-07-2019 In fall 2018, a new course entitled “Introduction to Innovation in Engineering” was offered to freshman Foote Fellows, educationally accomplished students who are self-motivated and think independently. This project-based course introduced students to the process of creating innovations by combining basic engineering with marketing principles, which many students are not exposed to the concepts until junior or senior years. During the course, students focus on the voice of the customer, prepare rapid designs and present their results or products. This course aimed to instill in students the importance of problem solving, creativity, critical thinking, communication and teamwork. In other words, this course provides students with the tools to create solutions to problems, communicate, test and realize their ideas. “We are being taught to be more than engineers: we’re being exposed to different subjects like entrepreneurship and art appreciation, but are still being taught how to think and address problems with new technologies like 3D printing,” said Rachel De Paz (BScPE ’22). “It’s taking a multi-disciplinary approach to the first-year engineering curriculum and I’ve really been enjoying it.” All students displayed their products and gave presentations during their final class. Some also had working prototypes, computer simulations and videos. IBISOUND: Experience sensory overload – Elizaveta Baranova (BSASE ’22), Siaunna Jenkins (BSBE ’22), Aijalon Kilpatrick (BSEE ’22), Mathew Morrison (UN ’22), Yuxin Song (BSPP ’22) and Ngoc Lan Vy Truong (BSBE ’22). The IBISOUND is a portable dodecahedral Bluetooth speaker on a rotating platform. The device asks to pair automatically when turned on, and all music controls including play/pause, skip/previous and volume is controlled from the paired device. The product works excellently with a range of more than 40 feet; the maximum range for best music quality is 15-20 feet. THE U-TENSIL – Robert DiCaprio (BS ’22), Emilie Duran (BSBE ’22), Ally Harpole (BSIE ’22), Kavya Justa (BSBE ’22), Samantha Kamath (BSCPE ’20), Yiki Yang (BScMM ’22). The U-Tensil is a fully refillable and rechargeable pen, pencil, and powerbank in one. This product eliminates the need for students to carry around multiple pens, pencils, and a bulky power bank. It also serves as a safety product for the consumers’ parents considering the device can charge their child’s phone up to 80% of its original battery in an emergency. U-KNIGHT – Jiaming Cao (BSM ’22), Matthew Christie (BSME ’21), James Clabby (BSASE ’21), Rachel De Paz (BScPE ’22), Jingyi Liu (BSIE ’22). U-Knight is an action figure with many independent parts, all connected by a uniform ball-and-socket joint. The parts consist of the following: a head, an upper torso, a lower torso, two upper arms, two forearms, two hands, two upper legs, two shins, and two feet. Currently, each of these parts are available in size options of small, medium, and large. Every part in every size is compatible with every other part, so our customers are free to create whatever they desire. The joints allow for a wide range of motion, so the action figure can be posed in almost any conceivable position. ROLLER CASE – Kristin Liu (BSBA’22), Dibyanshi Mishrra (BScPE ’22), Brett Nemetz (BSEE ’22), Brandon Rojas (BSAE ’22), Stephen Seruya (BSME ’21), Pranav Sriraman (BSBE ’22).The Roller Case turns a generally boring phone case into a fun remote -controlled car and provides an alternative to screen time. Kids can use the roller case to drive their phones in races, shoot videos on their phones while it is being driven, and use it in many other fun ways that do not involve looking at a screen. College of Engineering Visit Us College of Engineering Departments Learn About Us Programs Undergraduate, MS, and PhD Apply Now Get Started Events Calendar topics: People and Community Science and Technology University College of Engineering Visit Us College of Engineering Departments Learn About Us Programs Undergraduate, MS, and PhD Apply Now Get Started Events Calendar University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 College of Engineering 1251 Memorial Drive McArthur Engineering Building Coral Gables, FL 33146 305- 284-4117 305- 284-4117 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports 'Cane Watch UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search Department Search MyUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback