Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University cornell.edu Cornell Chronicle Search Cornell University Media Relations Office About Media Relations Working With Us Advisories Tip Sheets In the News Tip Sheets Cornell faculty members and experts weigh in on current events. Search To connect with a Cornell faculty member or expert, please contact the Media Relations Office. WHO proposals imperfect, but won’t violate U.S. sovereignty May 26, 2022 Kathy Bergin, professor of disaster law at Cornell Law School, comments on the World Health Assembly meeting in Geneva. International Reach International Health, Nutrition & Medicine Digital focus of Asia trade plan will help U.S. companies, allies May 23, 2022 The United States and twelve other nations are joining forces to create a new alliance, termed the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework. One of its four main goals is paving the way for greater digital trade. International International Reach Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Economics and Business Monkeypox likely to elicit travel restrictions as WHO considers emergency declaration May 20, 2022 Kathy Bergin, professor of disaster law at Cornell Law School, comments on the outbreak of monkeypox in Europe and the U.S. Law and Policy Biden plan to boost housing lacks critical zoning data May 16, 2022 Sara Bronin, a professor of planning, an architect and attorney, comments on a new White House plan to ease housing costs and bolster housing supply. Energy, Environment & Sustainability Architecture, Art and Planning Law, Government & Public Policy Finland, Sweden considering NATO not surprising given historical context May 11, 2022 Key decision-makers in Finland and Sweden are set to announce their positions on NATO membership this week – an expansion would leave Russia surrounded by NATO countries. International Reach Law and Policy Law, Government & Public Policy Cornell expert offers tips amidst baby formula shortage May 10, 2022 Stores nationwide have been struggling to stock enough baby formula to meet demand for parents. Health, Nutrition & Medicine White House internet plan won’t help most remote households May 9, 2022 Todd Schmit, professor of applied economics and policy, and Peter Fiduccia, doctoral student in development sociology, discuss the effectiveness of a new White House program designed to bring internet to underserved communities. Law and Policy Texas threat to revisit SCOTUS case could be ‘catastrophic’ May 6, 2022 Jaclyn Kelley-Widmer, professor of immigration law at the Cornell Law School, discusses potential implications of Roe v. Wade on immigration law. Law and Policy U.S. information warfare ‘fundamentally shapes conflict’ in Ukraine May 5, 2022 Reports suggest the U.S. has provided intelligence that has allowed Ukrainians to target and kill many of the Russian generals who have died in action during the Ukraine war. International Reach International Law, Government & Public Policy LGBTQ civil rights at risk with Roe v. Wade decision May 5, 2022 Katherine Sender and Nelson Tebbe discuss the implications of the draft Supreme Court decision on Roe v. Wade or the LGBTQ community. Law and Policy Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next page ›› Last page Last » Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Media Relations 312 College Ave. · Cornell University Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-6074 mediarelations@cornell.edu @CornellMedia SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON