Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Research in Real Time News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeNews Home /PR /Research in Real Time PR landing page feature Featured Story Study examines why the memory of fear is seared into our brains Experiencing a frightening event is likely something you’ll never forget. But why does it stay with you when other kinds of occurrences become increasingly difficult to recall with the passage of time? A team of neuroscientists from the Tulane University School of Science and... PR landing page feature Researchers study impact of college personality course on personality understanding Apr 28, 2022 - Barri Bronston Tulane researchers conducted a study that looked at the connection between students taking an introductory personality course and their dispositional intelligence. Tulane researchers receive American Heart Association grant to study COVID’s vascular effects Apr 25, 2022 - Leslie Tate The American Heart Association has awarded Tulane University researchers $940,000 to study how COVID-19 spurs vascular inflammation that may increase risks for blood clots and lingering symptoms of long COVID. Tulane study explores academic success among Jewish girls Apr 14, 2022 - Barri Bronston A Tulane study concludes that girls raised by at least one Jewish parent acquire a particular way of viewing the world that influences their education choices, career aspirations and various other experiences. Tulane team a national semifinalist in energy technology competition Apr 12, 2022 - Barri Bronston A team of Earth and Environmental Sciences students has been named a national semifinalist in the U.S. Department of Energy's inaugural EnergyTech University Prize competition. Tulane professor among international experts to produce landmark U.N. climate change report Apr 05, 2022 - Barri Bronston Tulane professor Jesse M. Keenan is among dozens of scholars and scientists involved in the writing and editing of a newly released United Nations report on the state of climate change. Load more Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University