Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community Center for Disability Resources Recognizes Faculty and Staff Wednesday, May 27, 2020, By Joyce LaLonde Share Center for Disability ResourcesfacultystaffStudents Every year, the Center for Disability Resources (CDR), previously known as the Office of Disability Services, recognizes faculty and staff for supporting students with disabilities. These faculty and staff members are nominated by students, as well as staff from the office. Artwork done by Christina Papaleo, disability access counselor “The Center for Disability Resources looks forward every year to recognize our faculty and staff who go above and beyond for our disabled students,” says Paula Possenti-Perez, director of the Center for Disability Resources. “Creating an inclusive learning environment, going beyond compliance, are not just words they profess, but actions they live by.” Since Spring 2015, the CDR has hosted the Faculty and Staff Recognition Ceremony, gathering nominators and nominees in person to celebrate a successful year of support and connection between faculty and staff and disabled students. Including this year, nearly 70 faculty and staff have been recognized for their commitment to students with disability on campus. Although the celebration won’t be in person this year, the significant contributions the faculty and staff have made will not go unrecognized. “Centering the students’ lived experiences, connecting at a personal level and making them feel valued are just some of the many themes that have been expressed over the years by students nominating faculty and staff,” adds Possenti-Perez. “While we could not come together in person this past spring, we wanted to make sure they were still recognized.” This year’s faculty and staff being recognized are: Alexander Corsello, adjunct professor in the School of Information Studies, for his respectful outreach and care for students’ well-being. Walter Freeman, assistant teaching professor of physics in the College of Arts and Sciences, for his resourcefulness and ability to use universal design methods. Brianna Shults, internship and employment coordinator in the School of Education, for her accessibility and dependability to students. Michael Gill, associate professor of disability studies in the School of Education, for giving students the confidence to realize their potential. Jessica Redmond, assistant professor in the Department of Nutrition and Food Studies in the Falk College, for being accommodating, helpful, accepting and understanding. Gina Pauline, associate professor of sport management in the Falk College, for being accepting and understanding, as well as helping students get to their next steps in life. Eric Kingson, professor of social work in the Falk College, for his generosity, kindness, understanding, knowledge, encouragement, assistance, guidance, lessons, projects, jokes, magic tricks, books and wisdom. Ralph Zito, professor of acting in the College of Visual and Performing Arts, for his commitment to equity and willingness to learn how to best support disabled students. Matthew Grzecki, assistant teaching professor of English in the College of Arts and Sciences, for going out of his way to help and provide feedback to students. Rebecca Schewe, associate professor of sociology in the Maxwell School, for making students know that accommodating students’ needs is part of teaching—not obtrusive. Jim O’Connor, producer of Sound Beat in Syracuse University Libraries, for providing opportunities and believing in students. Theo Cateforis, associate professor of fine arts in the College of Arts and Sciences, for helping students explore interests. Sarah McCoubrey, professor of studio arts in the College of Visual and Performing Arts, for helping students explore passions for art and encouraging them. Diana (Dee) M. Katovitch, program coordinator in the School of Education, for connecting and helping students. For more information and to read the nominations, visit CDR’s 6th Annual Faculty and Staff Recognition Ceremony page. Author Joyce LaLonde Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.