Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Podcast: Greg Lewbart and Aquatic Animal Medicine facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Audio Abstract NC State’s research podcast. You can subscribe to Audio Abstract with Apple Podcasts, Soundcloud or other podcasting apps of your choice. Mar 30, 2022 Podcast: Invasive Species Kelly Oten talks about invasive species in N.C. - from beetles to trees - and what we can do about them. Feb 22, 2022 Podcast: Animal Acupuncture Tara Harrison has performed acupuncture on actual lions, tigers and bears. Feb 2, 2022 Podcast: Color Renzo Shamey talks about the science of color creation. Dec 8, 2021 Podcast: Digital Mapping and the Pandemic Adriana de Souza e Silva talks about grassroots digital mapping of the pandemic in Brazil. Oct 25, 2021 Podcast: Halloween and Fall Food Safety Ellen Shumaker talks about fall food safety - from trick-or-treating to fairs, fire pits and fall potlucks. Sep 22, 2021 Podcast: Shweta Trivedi and VetPAC Shweta Trivedi talks about giving pre-veterinary students hands-on experiences through VetPAC. Aug 13, 2021 Podcast: Healthcare Inequity Vanessa Volpe explains how systemic racism can affect healthcare quality and availability for Black populations. Jul 8, 2021 Podcast: Vaccine Apathy Stacy Wood talks vaccine apathy: what it is and how to address it. Jun 11, 2021 Podcast: C. diff Casey Theriot talks about how C. diff does what it does and what researchers are doing to stop it. May 12, 2021 Podcast: Cicadas Clyde Sorenson talks cicadas. Apr 12, 2021 Podcast: Volcanoes Volcanologist Arianna Soldati talks about how volcanoes operate and what it's like to get up close and personal with lava. Mar 15, 2021 Podcast: Plastics, BPA and Phthalates Heather Patisaul talks about compounds in plastics that can affect your health. Feb 15, 2021 Podcast: Sneakerheads Delisia Matthews and Qiana Cryer-Coupet talk about sneakerheads, hypebeasts, and what it means to be a part of the community. Jan 21, 2021 Podcast: Queen Bees and Hive Failure A hive is only as healthy as its queen. Alison McAfee discusses queen failure. Dec 18, 2020 Podcast: Greg Lewbart and Aquatic Animal Medicine Greg Lewbart, a professor of aquatic medicine here at NC State's College of Veterinary Medicine, knows that when treating turtles and fish, innovative solutions are part of the process. Posts navigation 1 2 … 4 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.