Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Arts & Culture Innovator Lorrie Vogel ’88 to Deliver 2022 VPA Convocation Address Monday, May 9, 2022, By Erica Blust Share alumniCollege of Visual and Performing ArtsCommencementconvocationdesignspeaker Innovator Lorrie Vogel ’88 will deliver the 2022 convocation address to bachelor’s and master’s degree candidates of the College of Visual and Performing Arts (VPA) at the college’s convocation ceremony on Saturday, May 14, at 7:30 p.m. in the stadium. Lorrie Vogel Vogel, who earned a bachelor of industrial design degree from VPA’s School of Design, is the founder of ImagineNOW Inc., an innovation consultancy that accelerates innovation by using the power of design thinking. She provides innovation consulting services to such large corporations as Google and to small technology start-ups. Prior to founding ImagineNOW, Vogel enjoyed a 21-year career at Nike, with her last role in 2017 as the vice president of Nike’s Material Science and Innovation, where she incorporated emerging science and technology into materials, creating game-changing performance innovations for athletes. Her passion for design, innovation and sustainability made her a recognized global leader in bringing innovation to all facets of Nike’s products as well as shaping the future of the apparel and footwear industry. Vogel has received several honors throughout her career. In 2011 she was named by the Oregon Museum of Science and Industry as one of the top 12 innovators, holding over 20 utility patents. She was the co-creator of GreenXchange, which debuted at the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos in 2010, and she led the regional WEF discussion on sustainable consumption in India. In 2007, she was named to Fast Company’s “Fast 50,” the magazine’s annual compilation of innovative companies and the “incubators of genius.” Her sustainable design work has been recognized in several publications: “Strategies for Sustainable Design” (Adam Worbach), “Green to Gold” (Dan Estby) and as an MIT case study. Vogel continues to be a frequent presenter at universities and is a celebrated keynote speaker for such symposiums as PopTech, Back End Innovation and Design Management Institute’s annual conference. Author Erica Blust Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Arts & Culture Syracuse University Art Museum Piloting Object-Based Teaching and Research Faculty Fellows Program Faculty from all disciplines are invited to apply for a pilot Faculty Fellows Program being hosted this summer by the Syracuse University Art Museum. The program focuses on object-based teaching and research. It is both a way for the art… M.F.A. Exhibition ‘Steady/Retcon’ to be Exhibited on New York City’s Governors Island Master of fine arts (M.F.A.) candidates in the College of Visual and Performing Arts (VPA) are presenting the thesis exhibition “Steady/Retcon” over two weekends in May at the Syracuse University Governors Island House, 407A Colonels Row, Governors Island, New… Department of Drama Presents ‘As You Like It’ The Department of Drama presents the final show of the 2021/2022 season with “As You Like It,” a ravishing new musical adaptation of Shakespeare’s classic story by Shaina Taub and Laurie Woolery. The production, directed by Rodney Hudson, will perform… Movie Based on SU Press Book ‘Harry Haft: Survivor of Auschwitz, Challenger of Rocky Marciano’ Debuts “The Survivor,” a movie based on the Alan Scott Haft book, “Harry Haft: Survivor of Auschwitz, Challenger of Rocky Marciano,” debuted on HBO and HBO Max on Wednesday, April 27. It is being released on Holocaust Remembrance Day, commemorating the… New Biblio Gallery Exhibition Features Work of Manya Gadhok Syracuse University Libraries’ new Biblio Gallery exhibition on the 4th floor of Bird Library features the work of artist Manya Gadhok, a third-year master of fine arts in film student in the College of Visual and Performing Arts. The exhibit… Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.