Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Harvard Law School to retire shield Stephen Greenblatt wins Holberg Prize News & Announcements Harvard Law School to retire shield News & Announcements Harvard Law School to retire shield File photo by Kris Snibbe/Harvard Staff Photographer Corporation approves replacing crest linked to slaveholder family By Liz Mineo Harvard Staff DateMarch 14, 2016 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Trending Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Harvard to award seven honorary degrees Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers The Harvard Corporation on Monday approved a recommendation to retire the Harvard Law School shield, which came under fire amid student protests last fall because of its ties to the family of Isaac Royall Jr., a Massachusetts slaveholder who helped to establish the School through a bequest from his estate. In a letter to Harvard Law School Dean Martha Minow, President Drew Faust and Corporation senior fellow William F. Lee said the School “should feel free to discontinue use of the shield.” With that response, the Harvard Corporation affirmed the recommendation of a committee appointed by Minow that the controversial shield be replaced. “If the Law School is to have an official symbol, it must closely represent the values of the Law School, which the current shield does not,” the committee wrote earlier this month. In an email to the HLS community Monday afternoon, Minow thanked the president and the Corporation, as well as the members of the committee whose recommendation the Corporation approved. She acknowledged that retiring the shield “will take some time, but the work has begun.” “The opportunity to consider a new symbol on the threshold of our Bicentennial allows us to engage in a productive and creative focus on expressing the School’s mission and values as we continue to strengthen its dedication to intellectual rigor and truth, to reasoned discourse and diverse views, and to a community marked by mutual respect and inclusiveness,” Minow wrote. “Our constant efforts to marshal talent to serve justice and to advance human freedom and welfare are the best way to symbolize the ideals of Harvard Law School,” Minow added. “We cannot choose our history, but we can choose that for which we stand. Above all, we rededicate ourselves to the hard work of eradicating not just symbols of injustice but injustice itself.” The shield came under fire in October when a group of HLS students formed an organization called “Royall Must Fall” to push for discontinuing the use of the family crest as the School’s symbol. In making its recommendation to the University, the HLS committee also noted that the shield’s use as the School’s symbol is not deeply historical. The School was founded in 1817, but the shield was not adopted until 1937. The shield’s more widespread use dates to the second half of the 20th century. While approving the recommendation of the committee, members of the Corporation also agreed with its assessment that “modern institutions should acknowledge their associations with slavery to understand the pervasiveness of the legacy of slavery and its continuing impact on the world in which we live.” “While we accept the request to change the shield, we do so on the understanding that the School will actively explore other steps to recognize rather than to suppress the realities of its history,” Faust and Lee wrote in their letter. Faust and Lee said they looked forward to receiving a recommendation from HLS for a new shield, “ideally in time for it to be introduced for the School’s bicentennial in 2017.” “The School,” they wrote, “should have the opportunity to propose a new shield that, in the report’s words, ‘more closely represent[s] the values of the Law School’ — one conducive to unifying the Law School community rather than dividing it.” Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Trending Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Harvard to award seven honorary degrees Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers Up Next News & Announcements Stephen Greenblatt wins Holberg Prize News & Announcements Stephen Greenblatt wins Holberg Prize Stephen Greenblatt is the John Cogan University Professor of the Humanities. File photo by Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer