Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Industry Leader Mark Templeton to Address Summer and Fall 2021 Graduates facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Academics May 26, 2022 Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Many members of DELTA’s staff have worked tirelessly to make the course a success for incoming first-year and transfer students. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance May 25, 2022 A School of Fishes At a research center in the port town of Morehead City, 18 veterinary medicine students get hands-on experience operating on fish. May 25, 2022 NC State Names 42 Students to Park Scholarships Program Students in the university's 27th class of Park Scholars represent nine states and 20 North Carolina counties. May 23, 2022 Applications for Admission Soar as NC State Grows to Meet Workforce Needs Demand for an NC State degree is at an all-time high as the university prepares to welcome its largest and most diverse first-year class. May 5, 2022 Wake STEM Early College High School Hosts May 9 Open House Take a tour of the school's new campus and learn about the innovative program that allows students to earn a high school diploma and college credit. May 2, 2022 ‘Dare to Dream,’ Student Speaker Tells Fellow Graduates As the 2022 student commencement speaker, Anna Jump will encourage others to strive toward their goals and reach their dreams. Apr 7, 2022 Healthy Kids: No Batteries Required In a journey of discovery spanning six decades, Robin Moore has explored the connections between human development and the natural world. His ideas may hold the key to raising healthy children in the digital age. Mar 30, 2022 Graduate Programs Rise in Rankings This year's U.S. News rankings bring good news for graduate programs across the university. Three programs place in the top 10 nationwide while numerous other graduate programs advance. Feb 28, 2022 WISE Village Raises Voices, Representation The Women in Science and Engineering (WISE) Village works to bridge the gender gap in STEM programs at NC State. Feb 18, 2022 Going the Distance: NC State’s Leadership in the Public Sector Program Go behind the scenes at one of the top 10 online degree programs in the nation. Jan 26, 2022 7 Online Programs Rank Among Top 10 in U.S. News Rankings NC State has long been recognized for the quality of its on-campus teaching, student support and research facilities. Now its online degree programs are on the rise. Jan 26, 2022 AAAS Elects Fellows The election of eight faculty researchers to the prestigious scientific society signals NC State's rising reputation as a research powerhouse. Dec 3, 2021 NC State Ranked No. 1 Entrepreneurship Program in the Southeast NC State ranked No. 1 in the Southeast for both undergraduate and graduate entrepreneurship education programs and came in at No. 15 in both lists of Top 50 Undergraduate Schools and Top 50 Graduate Schools for Entrepreneurship Studies in the nation for 2022. Dec 2, 2021 20 Years of Extending the Reach of Education Kay Zimmerman, the associate vice provost for marketing and partnership development at DELTA, is retiring after two decades dedicated to online and distance learning. Nov 23, 2021 Industry Leader Mark Templeton to Address Summer and Fall 2021 Graduates The NC State alumnus and former CEO and director of Citrix Systems will speak to summer and fall 2021 graduates at the Dec. 14 ceremony. Posts navigation 1 2 … 26 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.