UT Wordmark Primary UT Wordmark Formal Shield Texas UT News Camera Chevron Close Search Copy Link Download File Hamburger Menu Time Stamp Open in browser Load More Pull quote Cloudy and windy Cloudy Partly Cloudy Rain and snow Rain Showers Snow Sunny Thunderstorms Wind and Rain Windy Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter email alert map calendar bullhorn Skip to content ↓ Information and resources related to COVID-19 Protect Texas Together Close Banner The University of Texas at Austin May 31, 2022 UT News Navigation Search Close Navigation UT News News Opinions Series UT Stories: COVID-19 What Starts Here Campaign Stories UT Research Science & Technology Health & Wellness Arts & Humanities Education & Leadership Business & Economy Campus & Community Policy & Law For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Experts Guide Pitch Form Archive UT Austin on Twitter UT Austin on Instagram UT Austin on Facebook UT Austin on LinkedIn Search for content on UT News Search Button Serving the State Feb 04, 2022 Hunt Foundation Expands Scholarship Support for El Paso-Area Students to Attend UT Austin AUSTIN, Texas — The Woody and Gayle Hunt Family Foundation has committed a gift to The University of Texas at Austin to support scholarships for students from the greater El Paso, Las Cruces, and Ciudad Juarez area who choose to pursue a degree at UT Austin. As part of the university’s Texas Challenge, UT Austin will match the donation dollar-for-dollar, creating a $5 million fund that will provide scholarships to undergraduate students from low-and middle-income families from the Borderplex region. “We are proud to participate in the Texas Challenge to help young people from the Borderplex region pursue their college dreams at UT Austin without the financial worries that can come with higher education,” said Woody L. Hunt, chairman of the Woody and Gayle Hunt Family Foundation and a Distinguished Alumnus of UT Austin. “By investing in our students, we are both providing them with the opportunity to continue their education and investing in the talent that will keep El Paso and Texas globally competitive and innovative through the coming decades.” With the gift, UT Austin will establish the Woody and Gayle Hunt Endowment to benefit students from the Hunts’ hometown of El Paso and the Borderplex region. Students who are awarded a Hunt Family Scholarship will receive it in successive years until graduation so long as they continue to meet its eligibility criteria. The scholarship endowment is designed to support multiple high-achieving UT Austin students each year in perpetuity. “Thanks to the generosity of the Woody and Gayle Hunt Family Foundation, we look forward to welcoming more students from El Paso to the UT Austin campus in the fall, and in the years to come,” said UT Austin President Jay Hartzell. “Students from the Borderplex region come from a vibrant, unique community full of different perspectives, which adds to the diverse community that we embrace here at UT Austin. We are committed to remaining competitive across the country recruiting the brightest minds, which we know are right here in El Paso.” Hunt is an alumnus of the Business Honors Program at The University of Texas at Austin, graduating in one of the school’s first classes in 1966. Hunt was also previously the vice-chairman of The University of Texas System Board of Regents. “Mr. Hunt has given a much-needed emphasis on UT Austin to the Borderplex region,” said George Chidiac, an El Paso recipient of a similar scholarship to the McCombs School of Business, awarded from the Hunt Foundation. “A lot of students are deterred by the costs since other schools are offering them scholarships. This is a statement to students showing that we are going to reward those who are working hard. I wouldn’t have been able to come to UT Austin if it weren’t for people who supported me both financially and personally. Help goes a long way and I think his help in the form of scholarships could be quite far reaching.” Since its founding in 1987, the Woody and Gayle Hunt Family Foundation has invested in key education initiatives, organizations and programs that help increase educational attainment in the Borderplex region, including scholarships that help more students pursue higher education. Copy link Email Share Link Twitter Share Link Facebook Share Link LinkedIn Share Link Tags: What Starts Here Campaign Stories Copy link Email Share Link Twitter Share Link Facebook Share Link LinkedIn Share Link Media Contact University Communications Email: UTMedia@utexas.edu Phone: (512) 471-3151 The University of Texas at Austin Explore Latest Articles May 25, 2022 Roger Bonnecaze Named Dean of the Cockrell School of Engineering Read More Roger Bonnecaze Named Dean of the Cockrell School of Engineering May 23, 2022 Low-Cost Gel Film Can Pluck Drinking Water From Desert Air Read More Low-Cost Gel Film Can Pluck Drinking Water From Desert Air May 23, 2022 Instability Can Benefit Teams with Different Expertise Read More Instability Can Benefit Teams with Different Expertise Subscribe to the TEXAS Newsletter UT Austin on Twitter UT Austin on Instagram UT Austin on Facebook UT Austin on LinkedIn UT News Home For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Experts Guide News Archive Pitch Form UT Austin Home Site Policies Web Privacy Policy Emergency Information Web Accessibility Policy Disability Resources © The University of Texas at Austin 2022