Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane Today Archive News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeHome Tulane Today Archive Tulane Today is a daily email with news and important updates from Tulane. Don't miss out - subscribe now. May 2022 Study examines why the memory of fear is seared into our brains The research was led by professor Jeffrey Tasker, the Catherine and Hunter Pierson Chair in Neuroscience, and his PhD student Xin Fu. Newcomb-Tulane College announces the Class of 2022 William Wallace Peery Society Twenty students from the Newcomb-Tulane College Class of 2022 have been awarded membership to the William Wallace Peery Society. Four professors receive Tulane 2022 teaching awards Michelle Foa (top left), Tiffany Lin (top right), Alessandra Bazzano (bottom left) and Guadalupe García (bottom right) received teaching awards. Celebrating the Class of 2022 On Saturday, May 21, Tulane University celebrated the Class of 2022 at its Unified Commencement Ceremony in Yulman Stadium. Class of 2022 praised for persistence at Unified Commencement in Yulman Stadium At the Unified Commencement Ceremony, student speaker Dr. Russell J. Ledet and keynote speaker Ken Jeong addressed the degree candidates. Marvelous Mortarboards, Class of 2022 edition Take a look at these creative mortarboards that members of the Class of 2022 will wear to the Unified Commencement Ceremony on May 21! From security guard to doctor, Class of 2022 student speaker proves that ‘anything is possible’ Russell J. Ledet will serve as the Class of 2022 student speaker at the Unified Commencement Ceremony on Saturday, May 21. Just do it – Runsdorf Award winners embody the spirit of public service The 2022 recipients of the Jim Runsdorf Excellence in Public Service Student Award are Mollie Sloter (left) and Ron’Janiele “Nelly” Bruce (right). Crawfest director has a knack for solving problems Tulane’s beloved Crawfest came back bigger and better under the leadership of executive director and Class of 2022 member Brett Franklin. Commencement 2022 schedule of events Tulane’s Unified Commencement Ceremony for the Class of 2022 will take place on Saturday, May 21, at 9 a.m. in Yulman Stadium. Tulane geologist honored by National Academies of Sciences Cynthia Ebinger has been named one of 14 Jefferson Science Fellows by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine. 14 confirmed Tulane Fulbright recipients, 9 more selected as alternates The Newcomb-Tulane College Office of Fellowship Advising supported 47 applicants through the Fulbright application process. Team Fleur FemTech wins annual Novel Tech Challenge The Fleur FemTech team won the grand prize at the Eighth Annual Novel Tech Challenge for their design of a home-use test to detect endometriosis. Researcher awarded $2 million grant to study biology of “jumping genes” Dr. Jeffrey Han and his team aim to better understand how DNA damage caused by the transposon L1 causes infertility in a mouse model. New model calls for everyone to play a role in managing risks In 2019, Tulane began implementation of a new risk management strategy known as enterprise risk management. Sports medicine physician opens one of world’s first Ehlers-Danlos syndrome clinics at Tulane Dr. Jacques Courseault has opened one of the world’s first Ehlers-Danlos syndrome clinics, the Tulane Hypermobility Clinic. Tulane scientists develop powerful family of 2D materials A team from the School of Science and Engineering, led by Michael Naguib, has developed a new family of two-dimensional materials. Tulane awarded grant to strengthen resilience of disaster-prone communities The Disaster Resilience Leadership Academy has received the Consortium for Equitable Disaster Resilience award. Study finds training ‘village doctors’ can improve blood-pressure control in rural areas The study is led by Dr. Jiang He, director of the Translational Science Institute at Tulane. Tulane medical student organizes relief efforts amidst violence in Ukraine Oleksandr Orak (second from left) and other volunteers have collected more than 90 boxes of medical supplies to be shipped to Ukraine. Tulane researchers awarded grant to develop environmental humanities minor Michelle Foa (left) and Laura McKinney (right) have received a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities to develop an environmental humanities minor. View Previous Months Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University