WSU Cougar Head Logo Washington State University Give Apply Locations My WSU Give Apply Locations My WSU Close WSU Insider News and Information for Faculty, Staff, and the WSU Community Menu Close News News Categories Arts & Culture Awards & Achievements Benefits & Training Business & Economics Campus & Community Food & Agriculture Health & Medicine Politics & Society Reports & Updates Science & Technology University Affairs Veterinary Medicine Announcements Contact Us For Journalists Press Releases Tip Sheets COVID-19 Cannabis research Institutional Data Quick Facts Search Close May 24, 2022 Two WSU professors to manage all medical data for World Triathlon and IRONMAN By C. Brandon Chapman, College of Education Two Washington State University faculty members are now the official curators of all medical data for World Triathlon and Ironman. Christopher Connolly, associate professor of Kinesiology in the College of Education, and Dr. W. Douglas B. Hiller, clinical professor in the Elson S. Floyd College of Medicine, have entered an official collaboration with the two groups, aiming to make the sport of triathlon safer than it’s ever been. In each triathlon that is administered under these organizations, on-site teams of doctors collect massive amounts of data about the athletes that participate, before, during, and after the races. Connolly and Hiller will oversee curating and analyzing the data in meaningful ways, then present their findings to the organizations. The data uses vary, but one example Connolly gave was publishing critical findings on ultra-endurance exercise in extreme heat conditions to create official recommendations for training and competition that will increase athlete safety. “There really are a diversity of ways we can make this immensely valuable but the data will impact the sport as a whole and hopefully, the triathletes themselves,” Connolly said. “We’re hoping this will help elevate the body of quality research as it relates to triathlon safety and performance.” World Triathlon is the governing organization that coordinates all 23 international triathlon organizations, including USA Triathlon. That includes being the triathlon arm of the International Olympic Committee, which Connolly said is especially significant. “World Triathlon opens up the doors to all other international organizations so it’s very meaningful,” he said. Improving research; improving safety The Ironman World Championship has been held in Hawai’i each year since 1978. Hiller, who is a surgeon with Whitman Hospital and Medical Clinics, finished the event in 1982, 1983, and 1984, while at the same time doing orthopedic and exercise physiology research. “The medical tent at those races was a mind-blowing experience,” he said. “While most people quickly recover from their symptoms with rest, hydration, and nutrition, many require medical care on race day and after.” Hiller said medical problems during races seemed to be well distributed across gender, age, and fitness levels. However, he was surprised that there was little valid research on the ultra-endurance needs of the various types of athletes competing. Dr. W. Douglas B. Hiller (left) and Christopher Connolly It was that lack of research that Hiller became interested in. He wanted to do something that could help make the sport safer and improve medical understanding and care at the races themselves. His initial research findings were game-changing, including those dealing with hyponatremia, an often misunderstood condition which happens when the blood’s sodium concentration is abnormally low. “At the time, ‘everybody knew’ that salt was ‘bad’ and was to be avoided, but thanks to our early research, and other studies, a change was made in medical tents around the world from a hypotonic intravenous electrolyte solution to a normal saline solution,” Hiller said. “This change almost certainly saved lives.” Hiller said it’s important to continue learning from data regularly collected on up to about 60,000 athletes and make evidence-based recommendations for the following: Factoring humidity into safe temperatures for racing at difference distances. Best practices, medication, treatments, and staffing for medical care at triathlons worldwide. Safe limits for training programs, potential dangers of dietary practices, and the long‑term effects of COVID‑19. Strong past and current relationships According to Connolly, the current partnerships are only possible because of Hiller, who is in the World Triathlon Hall of Fame and has been medical delegate and chief physician to USA athletes going to the Olympics and Paralympics. He was most recently in Tokyo at the Paralympics in the fall. “Dr. Hiller has been in this triathlon world for 40‑plus years and knows everyone,” Connolly said. “He’s been chairman or president or director of nearly every medical committee at one time or other for Ironman and World Triathlon.” For the past year, Connolly, Hiller, and five medical students from the Elson S. Floyd College of Medicine, have been sifting through 30 years of Ironman data, accounting for some 15,000 elite athletes. With the newest agreement, not only will the current and future Ironman data be included, but also new World Triathlon data. Up to now, it’s data that is manually input by the team. But moving forward, the research team is working on a database that is expected to be used by each triathlon race’s medical director. Connolly said the change will drastically help. “This will give us way more data than we’ve had for triathlons in a much quicker process,” Connolly said. “If each medical director inputs that data, it could give us the data of up to a million athletes within a year’s time.” Categories: Health & Medicine Next Story May 27, 2022 Emergency response trainings taking place on Pullman campus May 30–June 2 Local law enforcement and fire departments will meet on the WSU Pullman campus to conduct a series of training exercises May 30–June 2. Recent News May 27, 2022 Emergency response trainings taking place on Pullman campus May 30–June 2 Local law enforcement and fire departments will meet on the WSU Pullman campus to conduct a series of training exercises May 30–June 2. May 27, 2022 WSU appoints Danielle Hess executive director for policy and governance The university’s top lawyer is taking a new systemwide role and will be replaced as division chief by an assistant attorney general who has worked alongside her since 2015. attorney general, Board of Regents, compliance, governance, policy By RJ Wolcott, WSU News & Media Relations May 27, 2022 WSU Insider will be back Tuesday The staff at WSU Insider hopes you make the most of your Memorial Day holiday. New postings will resume Tuesday. May 26, 2022 WSU experts: Washington monkeypox case cause for concern, not panic The now-confirmed case of monkeypox in the state should raise awareness of the virus, but it will not spread as easily as COVID-19, according to WSU infectious disease experts. By Sara Zaske, WSU News & Media Relations May 26, 2022 Stacy Pearson retiring at end of 2022 During her tenure as VP for finance and administration and CFO, WSU turned a $30 million annual operating deficit into a nearly $30 million surplus in 2020. A national search for her replacement will be conducted. administration, finance, WSU President Kirk Schulz By RJ Wolcott, WSU News & Media Relations May 26, 2022 Leadership changes in the Voiland College The Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture announced three new directors for the upcoming school year. By Tina Hilding, Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture Find More News Subscribe for more updates Subscribe to WSU Insider to receive free daily updates by email. University employees are automatically subscribed—no sign up is necessary. RecommendedFeatures WSU experts: Washington monkeypox case cause for concern, not panic The now-confirmed case of monkeypox in the state should raise awareness of the virus, but it will not spread as easily as COVID-19, according to WSU infectious disease experts. May 26, 2022 College of Nursing adopts holistic admissions for BSN students The college has begun admitting students to the popular Bachelor of Science in Nursing program based in part on how well their experiences and skills align with the attributes of a nurse. May 24, 2022 Find More News Trending News Cougs in Space: Launching satellites and careers March 10, 2022 WSU Men’s Basketball bound for NIT semifinals March 24, 2022 Schulz spotlights recent successes during 2022 State of the University March 22, 2022 ‘Breaking Bad’ star to discuss how cerebral palsy helped shape his career March 22, 2022 FOR WSU CONTRIBUTORS Content guidelines WSU Insider Guidelines Press Releases Guidelines Announcements Guidelines Events Guidelines Submission Information Insider Submission Press Release Submission WSU Announcements Submission WSU Events Submission Additional Resources WSU Brand Guidelines WSU Editorial Style Guide WSU Podcasts Social Media Directory WSU News & Media Relations PO Box 641227, Pullman, WA 99164-1227 509-335-3581 wsunews@wsu.edu WSU Cougar Head Logo © Washington State University 2021 Access Policies MyWSU Follow WSU