Skip to content University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Apply Giving Clemson News Search Topics OUR Clemson Impact and Innovation Student Success Faculty and Staff Achievements Alumni Accomplishments All Stories Clemson In The News Celebrating the Class of 2022 Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Divisions Office of the President Office of the Provost Advancement Clemson Computing Information Technology External Affairs Finance and Operations Inclusion and Equity Public Service and Agriculture Research Student Affairs Athletics For Journalists Our Experts Clemson.edu Resources University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Search for: Search Search Clemson News Search for: Search College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences; Public Service and Agriculture 2022 Southern Regional Cooperative Soil Survey Conference coming in June Share: Attendees will learn about the new proposed soil order Artesol during the 2022 Southern Regional Cooperative Soil Survey Conference June 6-9 in Greenville, South Carolina. Download image May 17, 2022May 23, 2022 The 2022 Southern Regional Cooperative Soil Survey Conference is slated for June 6-9 in Greenville, South Carolina. Hosted by Clemson University and the South Carolina Natural Resources Conservation Service and titled “Humanity’s Influence as Seen Through a Soil Lens,” the conference will be held at the Clemson One building in downtown Greenville. The conference will give urban farmers, soil survey specialists, soil scientists and local and regional planners the opportunity to network, learn about regional soil work and identify needs and challenges regarding Southern soils. Attendees will learn about the new proposed soil order Artesol, new technologies to evaluate heavy metals in urban soils, and how to incorporate erosion and water loss risks into urban planning. Presentations will be given by the USDA Natural Resource Conservation Service, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control, universities and other stakeholders. The conference starts at 2 p.m. on Monday, June 6 with a welcome and a poster session to highlight current soil research in the southern region. Anna Paltseva from the University of Louisiana at Lafayette will give the keynote presentation, Urban Soils and Human Health. Tuesday activities include a tour of Greenbrier Farms to showcase soil management strategies that build healthy soils, a farm-to-table lunch, presentations and breakout sessions. The conference concludes at 12:30 p.m. on Thursday, June 9 with an urban farm tour of Mill Village Farms, hands-on description and interpretation of an onsite soil profile, and a demonstration of rapid and portable instrumentation for elements including heavy metals. General registration fee is $160 through May 18 and $225 thereafter. Student registration is $80; a *.edu email address is required. Payments will be accepted via the Clemson University Marketplace website: https://bit.ly/SoilSurveyConference. A block of rooms is available at the conference hotel, SpringHill Suites Greenville Downtown, for $159 per night. Indicate “Clemson Department of Plant & Environmental Sciences Room Block” when reserving rooms. For information, navigate to the conference webpage, or contact Clemson professor Dara Park at (843) 319-2957, or state soil scientist Kristine Ryan at (803) 253-3896 or kristine.ryan@usda.gov. -END- Want to Discuss? Get in touch and we will connect you with the author or another expert. Or email us at news@clemson.edu Your Name Your Email Your Message This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Related Posts Land-Grant Press publications provide vital knowledge from Clemson Cooperative Extension program areas Roots of native grasses may hold key to growing crops in drier climates Current fertilizer prices call for precise input management Scientists, farmers help ‘Queen of Forages’ re-establish throne in the South Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences Clemson News Clemson News is the go-to source for stories and news about the innovations, research and accomplishments of the Clemson Family. Contact Us Media Resources For Journalists Find an Expert Clemson Publications Clemson World Decipher IDEAS magazine Student Affairs Experience Magazine Orange. The Experience. Clemson TV Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022. All Rights Reserved. Clemson University Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson