Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search The Month in Photos: March 2022 Breadcrumb Home Features Victor Rogers April 01, 2022 Astronaut Shane Kimbrough Visits, InVenture Prize, and Guthman Musical Instrument Competition Industrial and systems engineering graduate and NASA astronaut Shane Kimbrough toured the student-led Yang Aero Maker Space on March 4 during a day of events on campus. Kimbrough’s visit was his first to Georgia Tech since returning to Earth in November. He spent six months on the International Space Station during his third mission to space. Photo taken by Allison Carter. Spring has sprung, and the Georgia Tech campus is in bloom. Photo taken March 9 by Brice Zimmerman. Georgia Tech music technology students got a close-up look at some of the world’s most innovative instruments during the Guthman Musical Instrument Competition. This year’s first place winner (pictured) is the Glissotar, created by Dániel Váczi. The instrument has a magnetic strip that mimics a stringed instrument while still functioning as a woodwind instrument. Photo taken March 11, courtesy of the College of Design. Team Reflex won the People’s Choice Award at the 2022 Georgia Tech InVenture Prize. Usman Jamal (pictured) and fellow computer science major Nevin Gilbert developed an emergency medical drone response system to deliver lifesaving medical equipment. The finalists competed in a televised pitch competition that aired live on Georgia Public Broadcasting. Photo taken March 16 by Brice Zimmerman. The Georgia Tech Library officially unveiled both the Media Bridge and the Crosland Rooftop art installation on March 30. The Media Bridge (pictured) showcases Tech’s culture of research, scholarship, and creativity, and will feature work from across campus. Photo taken by Rob Felt. Georgia Tech softball flew past Louisville, 17-5, on Saturday, March 19, earning all 17 runs in the final three innings. Photo courtesy of Georgia Tech Athletics. Volunteers removed invasive species, like this English ivy, from the hill near The Kendeda Building for Innovative Sustainable Design. Photo taken March 11 by Steve Place. Students, faculty, and alumni from STEM units across Georgia Tech gathered at the Atlanta Science Festival on March 17 for “Tech Talks: Unique and Diverse Perspectives in Science.” Speakers (back row, L-R), including Dean of Engineering Raheem Beyah, former astronaut and Georgia Tech alumna Sandra Magnus, Yasmine Bassil, and Kantwon Rogers, shared insights about their science journey, what they plan to do to improve their fields, and how their work will affect lives. The event organizers (front row, L-R) were Anusha Nandam, Claire Deng, Jalen Borne, Lindsay Rogers, and Audra Davidson. Photo courtesy of Jalen Borne. Artwork by Georgia Tech Library Artist-in Residence Deanna Sirlin is installed on the Grove Level of Crosland Tower. Sirlin will talk about the piece, called Watermark, during a reception and presentation on April 13. Photo taken March 28 by Jason Wright. President Ángel Cabrera visited the George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering and toured the Flowers Invention Studio, Montgomery Machining Mall, and the robotic/human augmentation lab space in the Georgia Tech Manufacturing Institute shared between Professors Aaron Young, Greg Sawicki, and Ye Zhao. The work has multiple applications, including assisting people with impaired mobility such as amputees, veterans, stroke victims, and individuals with cerebral palsy. Photo taken March 18 by Ben Wright. Credits Photography: Allison Carter, Rob Felt Writing/Editing: Victor Rogers, Stacy Braukman Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education