Skip to main content Search Close Search Search this site Search Search News and Media All of Oklahoma State University Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Headlines News and Media Main Menu In this section News News Archive Topics College News In the Media Magazines Experts Directory Submit News Contact Us Home Articles OSU’s part-time MBA climbs in national ranking OSU’s part-time MBA climbs in national ranking Tuesday, March 30, 2021 Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest Spears Business among nation’s best in U.S. News and World Report Oklahoma State University’s part-time MBA program is being recognized among the nation’s best in the U.S. News and World Report 2022 Best Graduate School rankings, released Tuesday. Power of OSU's MBA Earning your MBA from OSU's award-winning program can begin today.Learn more The part-time MBA program in the Spears School of Business is No. 52 in the 2022 rankings of 273 colleges and universities surveyed and is second best among Big 12 Conference schools. OSU’s part-time MBA program made a major improvement from the 2021 U.S. News rankings, moving up from No. 89. The significant increase in this year’s rankings follows January’s announcement that the OSU online MBA tied for No. 32 among nearly 300 colleges and universities surveyed in the U.S. News 2021 Best Online Programs rankings. Also, in the online graduate business programs, excluding the MBA, OSU was tied for No. 31. For services to veterans in online graduate business programs, OSU was ranked No. 20 in non-MBA programs and tied for No. 40 for the MBA. U.S. News and World Report annually ranks graduate schools based on expert opinions about program excellence and statistical indicators that measure the quality of a school’s faculty, research and students. Visit the OSU MBA website to learn more about graduate business education at OSU, including the MBA (full time, part time or online). To see the U.S. News and World Report 2022 Best Graduate School rankings, go to the Best Graduate Schools website. MEDIA CONTACT: Terry Tush | Director, Marketing and Communications | 405-744-2703 | terry.tush@okstate.edu $skip Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest BusinessMBASpears School of BusinessWatson Graduate School Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©