Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search When the Whistle Blows Breadcrumb Home Features Kristen Bailey April 01, 2022 The Georgia Tech community is always deeply saddened to lose one of its own. In 2001, a group of concerned students, faculty, and staff realized the community did not have a way to collectively honor those who pass away. Thus, a new tradition began. Near the end of each spring semester, When the Whistle Blows honors the memory of enrolled students and employees of the Institute who died during the previous year. The names of honorees are published in the Technique and The Whistle prior to the event. This year’s event on April 6 will honor 20 members of the campus community. The simple ceremony offers a solemn tribute at Harrison Square, in the shadow of Tech Tower. A unity candle is lit to represent the entire Georgia Tech community, and a family representative is invited to light a candle on behalf of their loved one. Each family also receives a small gift of remembrance from Georgia Tech. “It is so important that we recognize the loss our campus community experiences when a student, faculty member, or staff member dies,” said Steve Fazenbaker, director for the STAR Program and former director of the Wesley Foundation, who for years provided the opening message at the ceremony. This year, that role will be filled by a student. “Because we each have our own traditions and ways of dealing with the death of those close to us, it can be tricky to plan a ceremony that addresses everyone's needs and expectations. The diversity of faith traditions on campus makes the task that much harder. The ceremony is intentionally designed to create a solemn space in which family and friends can honor their loved ones in their own unique way.” Tech’s iconic steam whistle is blown once for each person being honored that day. Before the whistle breaks the evening silence, the alma mater is played to remind attendees of our time at Tech and to relay the hope that we will always be united as a community. The finished whistle given to families at When the Whistle Blows. Photos by Rob Felt Keeping the Whistle With You Each family receives a replica of Tech’s iconic steam whistle, a memento that was designed and created on campus by the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI) Machine Shop and College of Design’s Digital Fabrication Lab. The Machine Shop has been making the whistles since 2006, after the shop’s manager, Dennis Brown, attended the ceremony and left wanting to create a special token for the families. “He came back really wanting to take the lead on making something nice and meaningful for people,” said Dennis Denney, director of GTRI Machine Services. The original mementos were made of brass and affixed to a small marble base. A new base was designed in 2016 by Jake Tompkins, manager of the Digital Fabrication Lab and a Tech alumnus. The base is made of Corian, a durable, solid material that provides a white contrast to the gold whistle replica. The round base has a gear pattern to evoke memories of Tech. It is cut in two parts on a CNC cutter and glued together to give it additional weight and thickness. “It’s important, and we want it to feel important,” Tompkins said of designing part of the memento. “We know this is handed to families by the president, and it’s going to be with them for years to come.” The nameplates are waterjet cut from gold anodized aluminum and then laser etched before being affixed to the Corian base. The whistle itself is also anodized aluminum. It is spun on a CNC lathe and designed to scale from exact drawings of Tech’s original steam whistle. The bottom of the base bears an inscription taken from “A Tribute to the Whistle,” which first appeared in the 1914 edition of Tech’s Blueprint: Blow on, stern Monarch of Tech's mighty crew, Be always firm and staid: To your compelling call we'll e're be true Til each his part has played. “It’s all about intentionality. The bottom isn’t something a lot of people look at, but we don’t want it to be an afterthought,” Tompkins said. The sound of the whistle is part of daily life at Tech, as were those members of the community honored at the event. Each time the whistle sounds in the days following the event, it serves as a reminder of the students, faculty, and staff members held in our memories. President Cabrera lights a candle at When the Whistle blows in 2021. A bagpiper plays at When the Whistle Blows in 2021. 2022 When the Whistle Blows Honorees Neil Anderson Graduate Student Materials Science and Engineering Lorrie Buchanan Associate Vice President for Development Operations Development Cynthia Correa Senior Research Engineer Georgia Tech Research Institute William Fowler Locksmith Electronic Specialist Housing Chengming Julian Gu Undergraduate Student Computer Science John P. Hartley Graduate Student Computational Science and Engineering Rebecca Herrera Administrative Operations Coordinator Mechanical Engineering Debra King-Pringle Custodian Infrastructure and Sustainability Jakob Riley Martin Undergraduate Student Computer Science Uma Narayan Undergraduate Student Biomedical Engineering Glenn Parker Principal Research Engineer Georgia Tech Research Institute Matthew Parmer IT Support Professional Georgia Tech Research Institute Johnny Rand Campus Recycling Specialist Infrastructure and Sustainability Pamela Rary Associate General Counsel Office of the General Counsel William Sarvella Digital Printing Specialist Office of Information Technology Paula Skinner DBA and Tech Writer Professional Education Shane Taylor Graduate Student Computer Science Steven Taylor Senior Application Developer CEISMC Gloria Williams Senior Recruiting Consultant Georgia Tech Research Institute Thomas M. Wilson Undergraduate Student Nuclear and Radiological Engineering Credits Written by Kristen Bailey Photos by Rob Felt Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education