Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Veterans Veterans Vice Chancellor Haynie Appointed to Veterans Advisory Committee on Education Monday, May 16, 2022, By Austin Philleo Earlier this month, J. Michael Haynie, Ph.D., vice chancellor for strategic initiatives and innovation and executive director of the D’Aniello Institute for Veterans and Military Families, was appointed by United States Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough to serve on… Veterans Senior Q&A: Tony Ruscitto ’22 Puts a New Mission on His Horizon Monday, May 16, 2022, By Stephanie Salanger Q: How was your experience getting to Syracuse University? A: I’m a Syracuse native, and enlisted in the Marine Corps in 2013, out of high school. After five years of military service, I saw a crossroads. At 23 I realized… Veterans OVMA Announces 2022 Awards Celebrating Student Veterans’ Achievements Monday, May 9, 2022, By Austin Philleo The Student Veterans Organization (SVO) and the Office of Veteran and Military Affairs (OVMA) have presented two awards to student veterans in honor of their significant and notable achievements. The awards were distributed at SVO’s social held at the Inn… Veterans Senior Profile: Katie Piston ’22 Solves Biomedical Engineering Challenges Monday, May 9, 2022, By Stephanie Salanger Growing up in the Chicago suburbs, Katie Piston didn’t imagine herself looking to settle down in Central New York. After earning an undergraduate degree from Purdue University in biomedical engineering, Piston landed a job with Indiana-based medical technology company Zimmer… Veterans Office of Veteran and Military Affairs Announces Spring 2022 Military-Connected Scholarship Recipients Friday, May 6, 2022, By Austin Philleo The Office of Veterans and Military Affairs (OVMA) is pleased to announce the following awardees of military-connected student spring 2022 scholarships. These awards provide meaningful financial assistance to military-connected students as part of the University’s commitment to being the best… Veterans IVMF Digital Library Launched Wednesday, May 4, 2022, By Cristina Hatem Syracuse University’s D’Aniello Institute for Veterans and Military Families (IVMF), Syracuse University Libraries and the School of Information Studies (iSchool) partnered to create and launch the IVMF Digital Library at divmflibrary.syr.edu. It includes IVMF-authored publications and research, as well as… Veterans Senior Profile: Air Force ROTC Opens a World of Opportunity for Si Yun (Sara) Lim ’22 Wednesday, May 4, 2022, By Stephanie Salanger Si Yun (Sara) Lim absolutely knew she wanted to study international relations at Syracuse University, even if she didn’t know where she’d be heading at first. “I got my acceptance letter, and my mom asked me where Syracuse was. I… Veterans Military Spouse Appreciation Day is May 6, 2022 Wednesday, May 4, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Military Spouse Appreciation Day is this Friday, May 6th. While this day is dedicated to honoring the sacrifices and service of military spouses, research shows support for military spouses is lacking. Support for military spouses is needed for them and… Veterans Senior Profile: Emily Graham ’22 Finds Community Through Public Health Education Monday, May 2, 2022, By Stephanie Salanger A chance meeting on the other side of the world in Bali, Indonesia, proved to be a pivotal step in the journey Emily Graham ’22 took to Syracuse. It prompted her to see what the University offers for veterans, and… Veterans Campus Community Invited to the 2022 Student Veteran Commencement Ceremony and Army and Air Force ROTC Commissioning Celebration Monday, April 25, 2022, By Stephanie Salanger Time-honored traditions at the end of each spring semester, the annual student veteran ceremony and the ROTC commissioning celebration will take place on Friday, May 13. Both events are open to the public to enjoy the pomp and circumstance of… 12345 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.