Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search Breadcrumb Home Archie Ervin Vice President, Institute Diversity Georgia Tech Areas of expertise Inclusive excellence Equality Core research Public service, leadership, and policy Archie Ervin currently serves as Vice President for Institute Diversity. After a national search in 2009-2010, President G. P. “Bud” Peterson announced on October 5, 2010 the appointment of Ervin as Georgia Tech’s inaugural Vice President for Institute Diversity. As Vice President for Institute Diversity, Ervin has established his vision for “inclusive excellence” at Georgia Tech, where the talent and potential of all members of the Institute’s community are leveraged to ensure excellence in scholarship, research and service to provide leadership in our complex world. Ervin’s overarching operational responsibility as Vice President is to provide Institute level leadership and oversight for Georgia Tech’s diversity, equity and inclusion agendas. The Vice President for Institute Diversity is a member of the President’s Cabinet that helps to set institutional priorities, policies, programs and initiatives to enhance gender, racial, ethnic and social diversity in its faculty, staff and student communities. The Vice President for Institute Diversity (VPID) oversees the Georgia Tech ADVANCE Professorships that seek to transform and enhance gender diversity in the faculty and the Center for Women, Science and Technology, headed by three senior faculties, which links the study of science and technology to those of gender, culture and society. The VPID Office is also responsible for OMED Education Services and the Office for Hispanic Initiatives; two support units that address academic transition and academic success (retention and graduation) for women, historically underserved and low populations. View all related images for distribution Social media links Website Faculty profile Image Dr. Archie Ervin at 2014 Diversity Symposium (Photo: Rob Felt) Download Image Image Dr. Archie Ervin (Photo: Rob Felt) Download Image Image Dr. Archie Ervin (Photo: Rob Felt) Download Image Image Dr. Archie Ervin (Photo: Rob Felt) Download Image Image Dr. Archie Ervin (Photo: Rob Felt) Download Image Image Dr. Archie Ervin (Photo: Rob Felt) Download Image Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education