Having trouble viewing this email? View it in your browser May 2021 Newsletter Newsletter Archives › Stay Connected Research "Design Support and Evaluation of the Therapy Smart System" PI: Brad Fain (CACP) Sponsor: La Valeriane Funding: $38,500 "Ricoh Accessibility and Usability Support Program" PI: Brad Fain (CACP) Sponsor: Ricoh USA Inc., Funding: $9,000 What Does Georgia Tech Think? Selected Press for Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Cassidy Sugimoto, the incoming chair of the School of Public Policy, was mentioned in the article "PUBP welcomes new chair," published April 3, 2021, in Technique. Lisa Yaszek, Regents Professor in the School of Literature, Media, and Communication, was quoted in the article "NASA/JPL Named Two Sites on Mars After an Author and an Engineer. Here’s Why You Should Know Them, Too," published April 10, 2021, in USA Today. Travis Denton, academic professional in the School of Literature, Media, and Communication, associate director of Poetry @ Tech and McEver Chair in Poetry, contributed his thoughts to the article "4 Georgia Poets Discuss their Art for National Poetry Month," published April 9, 2021, in the Atlanta Journal-Constitution. Omar Asensio, assistant professor in the School of Public Policy, was quoted in the article "Georgia 'Primed to Become a Leader in Electric Vehicle Industry After SK Innovation Settlement," published April 14, 2021, in the Atlanta Business Chronicle. "Carterland" — a documentary for which Richard Barke, associate professor in the School of Public Policy, was interviewed — was the subject of the story "Documentary Featuring UGA Faculty Paints Jimmy Carter as 'Millennial President'," published April 14, 2021, in the Athens Banner-Herald. Mariel Borowitz, associate professor in the Sam Nunn School of International Affairs, was quoted in the article "Space Junk Removal Is Not Going Smoothly," published April 14, 2021, in Scientific American. Dalton Lin, assistant professor in the Sam Nunn School of International Affairs, wrote the piece "Pineapple Ban Another Prickle In Cross-Strait Relations," published April 15, 2021, in East Asia Forum. Milton Mueller, professor in the School of Public Policy, was quoted in the article "A Landmark Agreement is Toppling Barriers to Global Digital Trade," published April 16, 2021, in Tech Monitor. Todd Michney, assistant professor in the School of History and Sociology, was quoted in the story "The Map: National Urban History Experts Applaud Syracuse Reporting on Redlining," published April 26, 2021, in CNYCentral. Events All events May 14, 2021 - May 17, 2021 Reimagining Latin(o) America in the Pandemic: Media, Culture, and Democracy News All news Celebrating the Accomplishments of our Graduating Class On May 7–8, the Ivan Allen College celebrated our newest graduates at Commencement ceremonies. For each of these students, the ceremonies marked the culmination of a long journey that required intellect, determination, and in the last year or so, especially, flexibility. We are proud of their accomplishments. To learn more about some of our graduates, click on the links below: School of Economics School of History and Sociology School of Literature, Media, and Communication School of Modern Languages School of Public Policy Sam Nunn School of International Affairs Also, in early May, 49 students who trained to become military officers as part of Georgia Tech's Reserve Officer Training Corp programs received their commissions. To learn more, go to https://iac.gatech.edu/news/item/647223/rotc-cadets-receive-commissions. Kaye Husbands Fealing Elected to American Academy of Arts & Sciences On April 22, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences announced the election of Husbands Fealing to the membership of the prestigious organization. Read more LMC’s André Brock Receives Grant for Lab to Study ‘Race, Difference, and Computation’ André Brock, associate professor in the School of Literature, Media, and Communication (LMC), has received a $551,906 sub-grant from the University of Michigan to further interdisciplinary research into issues of “race, difference, and computation.” Read more School of Public Policy Team Wins Diplomacy Lab Bid to Examine AI’s Role in Accelerating Green Energy Adoption The project will focus on electric vehicle mobility in East Asia and Southeast Asia, where aggressive government investments and policy actions in the region offer the potential for exciting data and policy experiments in sustainable transportation, according to Asensio. “We are delighted to collaborate with the U.S. State Department and the Diplomacy Lab on this project,” Asensio said. “It will serve as an excellent test bed to bring our expertise in policy analytics to important global issues.” Read more Linthicum Named ACLS Fellow Kent Linthicum, a Marion L. Brittain Postdoctoral Fellow in the School of Literature, Media, and Communication (LMC), has earned a significant fellowship from the American Council of Learned Societies. Read more Bourne Chair Ilya Kaminsky Talks Poetry with President Cabrera Ilya Kaminsky, Margaret T. and Henry C. Bourne Jr. Chair in Poetry, joined President Ángel Cabrera to discuss the role of art and artists — including at Georgia Tech — on April 20, 2021. Read more Public Policy Seniors Tackle Greenspace, Wildlife Protection, in Winning Capstone Design Expo Projects The teams examined the monetary value added by Piedmont Park to nearby homes and on developing bird-safe construction policies. Read more Ivan Allen Faculty, Staff Accomplishments Honored Fifty Ivan Allen College faculty and staff were honored for their accomplishments. Read more Exploring Sustainable Development Goal Work in the Ivan Allen College All across Ivan Allen College, in every school, in our research units and our labs, in classrooms from Habersham to TSRB, the College’s faculty and students are working every day toward a better, more just, more sustainable tomorrow. The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals provide an organizing framework for organizations and governments worldwide to track progress on such work. Georgia Tech President Ángel Cabrera last year made them a central part of our defining purpose: to develop leaders who advance technology and improve the human condition. Learn more about this work with our series, "SDG@IAC." Read more Climate and Energy Policy Lab Hosts Climate Discussion The Climate and Energy Policy Lab in the School of Public Policy hosted a discussion on climate change organized by Solve Climate By 2030. The event was one of a hundred, one in each U.S. state and 50 other nations. Read more Unit News $50,000 Endowment Celebrates 50 Years of Economics at Georgia Tech The Endowment Fund for Excellence in Economics (EEE) is a new initiative by the Board of Advisors for the School of Economics to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the first undergraduate degrees awarded by the School. Read more Georgia Tech ROTC Programs Host 2021 Joint Awards Ceremony Cadets from Georgia Tech's ROTC programs were recognized for scholastic and military achievements throughout the year. Read more Student News Global Social Entrepreneurship VIP Participates in 'Book Buddies' Drive Students in the Global Social Entrepreneurship Vertical Integrated Project (VIP) took part in the Buzz Buddies book drive, part of Ramblin’ Reading Day 2021. The goal was to promote literacy by giving a book to all students in kindergarten through fifth grade at William Boyd Elementary School. The VIP team donated 200 copies of Scout’s Superhero Search: The Birdieman of Rio de Janeiro, a children's book written by students in the VIP. Read more Faculty News Kathrin Köppe Promoted to Senior Lecturer The promotion recognizes Köppe's strengths as an instructor, emphasizing inter- and cross-cultural learning, sustainability studies, and career advancement. Read more Borenstein Elected to Board of Association for Practical and Professional Ethics Borenstein will serve in the role through 2025. Read more Staff News Leslie Ross Elected to Lead Liberal Arts Advising Community at NACADA Ross, academic program manager and undergraduate advisor in the School of Public Policy, will lead the Liberal Arts Advising Community of the National Academic Advising Association (NACADA), an international organization dedicated to advancing the field through research and professional development. Read more Research News Melkers to Study Pandemic's Impact on Research Teams Melkers, associate professor in the School of Public Policy, received funding from the National Science Foundation Early-Concept Grants for Exploratory Research (EAGER) to conduct the study. Read more About Us Georgia Tech Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts forms a vanguard for 21st century liberal arts interdisciplinary research, education, and innovation. Working at a crossroads of engineering, science, and computing, and the humanities and social sciences, faculty and students consider the human implications of technologies, policies, and actions, and create sustainable solutions for a better world. Learn More Contact Us Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Savant Building 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0525 404-894-2601 Feedback We always welcome your thoughts. Click here to contact us or you can email us with any questions, comments or suggestions. Copyright © 2021 Georgia Institute of Technology Savant Building | 631 Cherry St NW, 1st Floor | Atlanta, GA 30332-0525 Home / Legal & Privacy Info / Contact Us This email was sent to kevin.pittman@iac.gatech.edu why did I get this? unsubscribe from this list update subscription preferences Georgia Tech Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts · 631 Cherry Street NW, 1st Floor · Atlanta, GA 30332-0525 · USA