Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Researchers Incorporate Marginalized Voices in Climate Change Solutions facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Designing Healthy and Resilient Societies Researchers Incorporate Marginalized Voices in Climate Change Solutions August 10, 2021 Deborah Strange Zakiya Leggett organized a summer program for middle school girls to learn more about science. Studying climate change is a multifaceted challenge. The continuous shifts on our planet impact food and water supplies, habitats, human health, power systems and even recreation. People of color and low-income communities are most likely to be affected because of their current landscapes. As experts at NC State study how climate change alters weather, sanitation and soil, they strive to include these voices in their research to ensure that groups facing the highest risk aren’t overlooked. “We understand climate change as a threat multiplier, in which these existing climate and non-climate stressors work and aggravate existing health disparities or social inequalities, pollution and health systems issues,” said Jennifer Runkle, an environmental epidemiologist at the North Carolina Institute for Climate Studies. Jennifer Runkle Runkle’s research focuses on the effects climate change and extreme weather events have on human health, particularly among vulnerable populations. We understand climate change as a threat multiplier. The North Carolina Institute for Climate Studies has partnered with Crisis Text Line to study how young people’s responses to crisis change during such events. Runkle has also studied how Hurricane Florence affected the mental health of young people in North Carolina and South Carolina, as well as how compounding incidents — like extreme weather events during the COVID-19 pandemic — have impacted mental health. Related Hidden Damage Researchers studied anonymized data from the Crisis Text Line to better understand how Hurricane Florence influenced the mental health of youth and young adults. Measuring real-time impacts Angela Harris is an assistant professor in NC State’s Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering Department and a member of the Global Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (Global WaSH) cluster in the Chancellor’s Faculty Excellence Program. She’s interested in the resiliency of infrastructure systems as extreme weather and flooding events become more frequent. As she studies the intersection of human health and climate disasters, she’s well aware of how fragile water supply can be. Angela Harris For these systems-level efforts where things are so interconnected, it is important to have everybody at the table. “Not everyone is receiving this basic human right of safe drinking water, even in the United States,” Harris said. “Not often do people look at both chemical and microbiological hazards that people are being exposed to.” In workshops, Harris brings together state officials, community stakeholders, engineers and members of the public, embracing different perspectives on how infrastructure can be more resilient to climate change. “For these systems-level efforts where things are so interconnected, it is important to have everybody at the table,” Harris said. Related Our Changing Climate and How We’ll Respond Across NC State, researchers are helping us understand, prepare for and mitigate the impacts of a warming planet. Explore our work Disparities seep into every facet of life, touching a person’s health, profession, safety, social life and more. Though the effects of climate change are borderless, they exacerbate these disparities. Because of this, centering marginalized voices and including them in research is vital to developing true climate solutions. Fostering diversity brings unique perspectives to the field, which can ensure solutions benefit everyone. Zakiya Leggett, an associate professor studying soil ecology in the College of Natural Resources, recently co-authored a journal article that discusses how encouraging students of color in ecology will benefit the field. “Black ecologists across the world often have broader definitions of impact because we, as a collective, come from different walks of life and thus think, speak and act differently,” she said. “Promoting inclusive environments for us entails recognition and acceptance for our diverse contributions.” Zakiya Leggett Students are very interested in projects that tie back to potential issues or questions that may have come up in their community. Sometimes, Leggett says, ecology work can feel isolated from other disciplines. That’s why she makes sure her students can see how their projects relate to public science and have a human impact. “Students are very interested in projects that tie back to potential issues or questions that may have come up in their community,” Leggett said. “Students say you can have all the inclusion and diversity efforts you want, but they’re a moot point if the science doesn’t tie back to the communities and if you don’t hear from the communities as research projects are being developed.” Related Results Magazine Your source for the latest research and innovation coming out of NC State. Discover more stories Categories: Designing Healthy and Resilient Societies Driving Food, Water and Energy Solutions Research and Innovation Results Archive Tags: climate change college of natural resources Department of Civil Construction and Environmental Engineering North Carolina Institute for Climate Studies office of research and innovation water quality View Comments 0 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * More From NC State News New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Researchers Conduct First Assessment of Metabolites in African Savanna Elephants Quantifying Cognitive Decline in Dogs Could Help Humans With Alzheimer’s Disease Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.