Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Health & Society Food Services Honored for Best University Food Allergy Training Program Wednesday, May 13, 2020, By Jennifer Horvath Share Food Services Gluten-free baked goods Syracuse University Food Services has received the award for 2020 Best Overall Food Allergy Training for Universities from AllerTrain by MenuTrinfo LLC. The AllerTrain team recognized outstanding food service leaders in allergy training and safety by selecting winners from universities and restaurants across the country. Last year, Food Services received the award for Best Overall Food Allergy Program for Universities from the company. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, the team at AllerTrain thought it crucial to celebrate food allergy champions across the nation and beyond, and the panel of food allergy experts and trainers who selected this year’s winners chose from an extremely diverse nomination pool. “It is an honor to be recognized by AllerTrain,” says Food Services Director Mark Tewksbury. “We are committed to providing a safe and worry-free dining experience for our students, faculty, and staff.” The recognition, says Tewksbury, provides those with special diets an additional level of comfort when choosing foods served in Food Services’ facilities. He lauded the work of the University’s registered dietitian, Ruth Sullivan, who leads the effort to make Syracuse University a premier food allergy training program. Consistent training is used to ensure management, cooks, and line staff understands the risk of cross-contact. Sullivan is a certified AllerTrain master trainer, meaning she is qualified to train Food Services staff members on allergy sensitivities using the AllerTrain U program. Sullivan points out that Food Services’ standard-bearing allergy program wouldn’t be possible without the support from several University offices alongside the Food Services management team. Auxiliary Services, led by interim director Jennifer Uryniak, has encouraged Food Services to get the certification and training necessary to build a successful program. The Office of Student Living, Parent and Family Services, the Center for Disability Resources, Risk Management, the Department of Public Safety, and Health Services have all had a part in assisting Food Services. Food Services continues to improve its allergy resources through consistent training and certification. The department strives to provide the Syracuse University community with delicious, healthy food options while maintaining its successful approach to food sensitivities. For more information or questions about food allergies, contact Ruth Sullivan at resulliv@syr.edu or contact mealtalk@syr.edu. AllerTrain by MenuTrinfo was born when its CEO, Betsy Craig, saw a growing need for food allergy and gluten free training and awareness within the food service industry. It has developed into a wide variety of training options to suit different industry members. From corporations to independent restaurants, AllerTrain has trained thousands of food service workers across the country. Author Jennifer Horvath Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Health & Society Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Jennifer Cornish Genovese is a professor of social work in the Falk College, a New York State licensed certified social worker and has worked in private practice as a psychotherapist for 30 years. She specializes in helping children deal with… Alumni Draw on Their Military Experience in Their Roles as Teachers Do military veterans make good teachers? This question was posed to two School of Education alumni—one a former U.S. Army pilot and the other a former Air Force systems and IT technician turned linguist—who both now teach in Upstate New… Social Work Student Bre’Yona Montalvo Receives First Sunflower Scholarship At her high school in Harlem, Bre’Yona Montalvo was the kind of classmate who always made time to listen. “Being in discussions in class and with friends, I was helping others without intentionally planning to help them,” says Montalvo, who… NBA Player Shares Personal Experience With Stuttering With CSD Students Students walking into Grant Auditorium for CSD 450/650 Clinical Seminar last semester saw a celebrity instead of their usual professor. National Basketball Association (NBA) player Michael Kidd-Gilchrist was visiting the class to give the students a unique perspective on both… Falk Graduate Student Rebecca Garofano Honored by Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Rebecca Garofano, a Falk College graduate student in nutrition science, was honored with the Outstanding Dietetics Student Award at the New York State Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics Annual Meeting and Expo April 8-9 in Syracuse. Garofano is actively engaged… Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.