Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Media Tip Sheets Architecture Expert and Researcher of Abortion Clinics On the Future of Access Tuesday, May 10, 2022, By Ellen Mbuqe Share reproductive accessRoe v. Wade Last week, a draft decision for Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization was leaked from the Supreme Court and shows that five justices are preparing a judgment that would strike down Roe v. Wade. For reporters covering this ongoing story, Syracuse University architecture professor Lori Brown offers a unique perspective due to her work researching the physical structures of abortion clinics and how the debate has shaped access to reproductive healthcare. She is the author of “Contested Spaces: Abortion Clinics, Women’s Shelters and Hospitals: Politicizing the Female Body,” and the article “Private Choices, Public Spaces. Field notes from Mississippi’s last remaining abortion clinic.” There are currently 16 states and the District of Columbia that have laws protecting access to abortion. Brown says that there will be increased visitations to these clinics from people living in places where state governments have completely outlawed abortion. “The clinics could operate seven days a week and would still not be able to provide the care that will be in high demand. This means that additional clinics or other spaces will need to be constructed, which takes a lot of time,” Brown said. “Furthermore, it takes funding and finding space where landlords will rent to abortion clinics,” said Brown. “There are many communities and spaces where they won’t rent to clinics offering abortion services. Importantly, zoning laws can be manipulated where clinics can’t operate at all.” In her book “Contested Spaces” Brown conducted in-depth research on abortion clinics in America and found that many clinics were operating out of spaces that were not originally designed to be health clinics because of the expense of new construction and that landlords were unwilling to rent to them. In a 2014 interview with Fast Company she said: “Architecture is absent in these types of spaces, they can’t afford architects or architectural services, they believe architects won’t work with them, and they are often in existing spaces that have been re-appropriated as a medical facility,” she says in the article The Architecture Of Abortion: How Providers Build Their Own Buffer Zones. Additionally, Brown has worked with the Jackson Women’s Health Organization – which is at the heart of the Supreme Court draft opinion that was leaked to the press. Along with the architecture non-profit she co-founded and leads, ArchiteXX, Brown created a design competition to rethink the clinic’s privacy fence. To schedule an interview with Prof. Brown, please contact Ellen James Mbuqe, executive director of media relations, at ejmbuqe@syr.edu or 412-496-0551. For additional background, here are some recent articles and profiles of Prof. Brown: The Abortion Clinic Next Door, Through research and design, Lori A. Brown emphasizes the ties between women’s reproductive decisions and broader social forces. Architectural League Before #TimesUp, these activist architects fought for equity in their industry, LA Times Making abortion clinics beautiful: Meet the architect changing how we view them, Salon The Feminist Five: Lori Brown, Feministing Author Ellen Mbuqe Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Media Tip Sheets PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? June is PTSD Awareness Month and it serves as yet another reminder of the mental health struggles many veterans face each and every day – often times without any support, according to this recent Op-Ed in Newsweek written by John… Vice Admiral responds to Biden’s trip to Asia If you are looking for an expert in military and intelligence issues, please see comments from retired Vice Admiral Robert Murrett regarding President Biden’s trip to Asia and the mention of the “United States would intervene militarily if China attempts to… Media Tip Sheet: Consequences of China Lockdown As the intense lockdowns continue in China, one of our Syracuse University professors weighed in on possible consequences they may have on the economy. Dimitar Gueorguiev is an associate professor of political science at the Maxwell School of Citizenship and… “Inclusion Should Not Be an Afterthought”: Education and Legal Experts Weigh In on Plan to Update Federal Regulations For the first time in 45 years, the U.S. Education Department is planning to update federal mandates for how schools and colleges must accommodate students with disabilities. The department is soliciting public comments about how current regulations can be improved… Response to Putin’s Speech As we heard earlier today, Russian President Vladimir Putin said he had no choice but to invade Ukraine in his Victory Day speech (CNN). Syracuse University’s Mark Jacobson has responded to this speech (see below). Jacobson is the assistant dean of Washington programs… Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Facebook @SyracuseUNews Youtube Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.