Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Woodson Reflects on Heroes of Pandemic facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Author: David Hunt May 3, 2022 National Inventors Hall of Fame Honors 3 With Ties to NC State Three innovators who have served on NC State's faculty are inducted into the prestigious organization at a two-day event in Washington, D.C. Apr 7, 2022 Healthy Kids: No Batteries Required In a journey of discovery spanning six decades, Robin Moore has explored the connections between human development and the natural world. His ideas may hold the key to raising healthy children in the digital age. Apr 6, 2022 30% Complete Employee Engagement Survey — So Far There's still time for faculty and staff to participate in the UNC System Employee Engagement Survey, the first since the COVID-19 pandemic. Mar 30, 2022 Graduate Programs Rise in Rankings This year's U.S. News rankings bring good news for graduate programs across the university. Three programs place in the top 10 nationwide while numerous other graduate programs advance. Mar 1, 2022 2022 Employee Engagement Survey Available March 28 Watch for an email on March 28 with a link to the online UNC System Employee Engagement Survey and give your feedback on key measures of job satisfaction. Feb 21, 2022 NC State Named Best Large Employer in North Carolina Forbes surveyed 60,000 Americans to find the best places to work across the nation. In North Carolina, the top choice is NC State. Feb 18, 2022 Going the Distance: NC State’s Leadership in the Public Sector Program Go behind the scenes at one of the top 10 online degree programs in the nation. Jan 26, 2022 7 Online Programs Rank Among Top 10 in U.S. News Rankings NC State has long been recognized for the quality of its on-campus teaching, student support and research facilities. Now its online degree programs are on the rise. Dec 9, 2021 NC State Leads Raleigh Effort to Meet Students’ Basic Needs In response to alarming rates of food and housing insecurity among college students, NC State is joining forces with the city of Raleigh and other area institutions to develop systems-level solutions. The effort is sponsored by the National League of Cities. Nov 29, 2021 Erik Dixon Named to Board of Trustees An alumnus of the College of Engineering who is helping connect rural areas of North Carolina is the newest member of NC State's governing board. Oct 10, 2021 Ray Odierno, Alum Who Served as Top Army General, Dies Odierno, a member of NC State's Board of Trustees, served three tours in Iraq, where he was responsible for the counterinsurgency strategy that helped reduce violence. Aug 26, 2021 NC State Rises to 4th Place on List of Best Employers NC State's resilient faculty and staff keep their faith in the university's mission, driving the institution up five spots on an annual survey of North Carolina's best places to work. Jun 26, 2021 People, Plants and Pride: The Passions of J.C. Raulston A quarter-century after his death, the founder of NC State's arboretum is remembered for his pioneering efforts to cultivate a welcoming space for LGBTQ professionals in horticulture. Jun 23, 2021 More Students Struggle With Basic Needs Due to Pandemic The economic fallout from the COVID-19 pandemic has hit students hard, resulting in a marked increase in food insecurity and homelessness. The toll on their mental health has been striking. May 13, 2021 Woodson Reflects on Heroes of Pandemic Chancellor Randy Woodson credits the Wolfpack community for persevering through the sacrifices and challenges wrought by the COVID-19 pandemic. Posts navigation 1 2 … 26 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.