Prospective Students Current Students Faculty Staff Alumni UCLA Give Now Menu About Close Program Goals Staff Contact Recruitment – Apply to be an NSA! Close New Student Sessions Close First Year Students Transfer Students International Students Parents & Families Close College Summer Institute Close About Courses – General Education/Major Preparation Courses – Writing Requirement Costs Housing International Students Important Information Close Other Programs Close Other Programs Traditions Keeper Winter Academic Advising Close Resources Close FAQs All About Enrollment New Bruin News Words of Wisdom Planning Your UCLA Degree Other Campus Resources Close Close Close Search Menu PreviousNext 1234567891011 WELCOME TO UCLA! Dear Incoming Students and Family Members, As one of the units that comprises the Division of Undergraduate Education, New Student Academic Programs is designed to serve the educational planning, academic advising, matriculation, and adjustment needs of all entering UCLA undergraduates. Our goal is to ensure that all new UCLA students and their families begin their journeys at UCLA with a comprehensive, positive introduction to Bruin life. The first step begins during our New Student Sessions, where New Student Advisors provide an introduction to UCLA and its world-renowned academic programs, extensive services, and rich traditions. Before that time, you will have several opportunities to engage with us in preparation for your orientation session: In Spring, our New Student Advisors will be holding Bruin to Bruin sessions, small group discussions about important dates, deadlines, placement examinations, and much more. Students are welcome to ask our New Student Advisors any questions they have about UCLA. After signing up for a New Student Session, students will be sent a Preparing for New Student Sessions module that will provide information about UCLA’s academic programs, support services, campus involvement, and safety and health information. This will be your way to get ready for your session. Beginning in May, we will be sending students a New Bruins Newsletter that includes articles of interest for new students, including getting involved, academics, and services. The following pages on our site will provide you with more details about New Student Sessions, New Parent & Family Sessions, and the College Summer Institute. Please review the information here carefully, as it outlines important dates, costs, and other details for you, including when and how to sign up. Please know that we remain committed to the health, safety, and education of our students and everyone in the UCLA community. We are also dedicated to making sure that new Bruins and their families are supported, informed, and thoroughly introduced to all that UCLA offers. If you have any other questions about UCLA, including the wide range of academic programs and services here at UCLA, our advisors can assist you in getting the information you need and direct you on the next steps to take. Call us at (310) 206-6685 or email us through the MyUCLA Message Center (with UCLA login or without UCLA login). Go Bruins! Roxanne G. Neal Assistant Dean UCLA New Student Academic Programs An Important Message for New Bruins and their Families Please know that we have been carefully following all current information relating to Covid-19, how it will continue to impact the UCLA community, and how it will impact our New Student Sessions and New Parent & Family Sessions, as well as our other programming. Despite these challenging times, we want you to know that we remain dedicated to providing you with the best experience and welcoming you to UCLA while also being committed to the safety and wellbeing of our students and the Bruin community. Please visit the UCLA Covid-19 website for more information and updates. https://covid-19.ucla.edu CHAT CLICK HERE TO CHAT WITH AN NSA ALL ABOUT ENROLLMENT CLICK HERE FOR ALL THE DETAILS COVID-19 CLICK HERE FOR LATEST UPDATES CONNECT UCLANewStudents @UCLANewStudents @UCLANewStudents 201 Covel Commons Los Angeles, CA 90095 (310) 206-6685 For email communication please use the MyUCLA Message Center: with UCLA login without UCLA login ﻿ 201 Covel Commons, Los Angeles, CA 90095 | (310) 206-6685 © Copyright 2022 UCLA - Login About New Student Sessions College Summer Institute Other Programs Resources Search Scroll to top