Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette A letter to the Class of 2020 The COVID-19 evacuation wasn’t Harvard’s first Campus & Community A letter to the Class of 2020 Campus & Community A letter to the Class of 2020 Harvard Alumni Association President Alice Hill ’81, Ph.D. ’91 Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard file photo ‘Harvard belongs to all of us,’ writes HAA President Alice Hill By Alice Hill ’81, Ph.D. ’91 Harvard Alumni Association President, 2019-20 DateMay 27, 2020May 28, 2020 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Victory of perseverance, vision over more than decade of challenges Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 View all of Honoring the Class of 2020 Like you, I thought I knew exactly where I would be on May 28, 2020: in Tercentenary Theatre welcoming you to the Harvard Alumni community as president of the Alumni Association. As a parent, I was also looking forward to celebrating the graduation of my son, Hamish, from the College, together with his roommates Ana, Liz, and Spencer and their families. While we have lost a magical day together, you have given us so much more to celebrate on May 28. We — the entire alumni community — are proud of your class. Like your families, we are proud of your hard work and achievement and, like your families, we are overwhelmingly proud of the way you have met the challenges of this year. To protect the people of Massachusetts from the COVID-19 pandemic you left your classes and, in many cases, your home at Harvard to move to a virtual mode of education. At the same time, you stepped up to serve your communities across the world. Some of you moved straight onto the front lines of the pandemic, like the Harvard Medical School Class of 2020 students who chose to graduate early so they could join the fight and those from the T.H. Chan School of Public Health who volunteered to provide the contact tracing system for Massachusetts. Others kept student-led organizations like the Phillips Brooks House Association, WHRB, and The Crimson operating. Business School students banded together to create networks that kept PPE flowing to Boston-area hospitals. You have reached out to mentor students whose elementary and high schools are closed, staged virtual voter registration drives, supported your families, fed medical workers, and more. My heart is ready to burst with admiration. So many of you physically left Harvard in mid-March, well before you expected. However, you will find that you never leave Harvard. Your classmates and your experiences will always remain yours and you will discover that Harvard is even bigger and better after you graduate. You all are part of a community that includes everyone who has ever studied or worked at the University, a community that reaches to all parts of the world. It is a community that will welcome you unconditionally in places you wouldn’t expect. Living in southern Australia, after growing up in Arctic Canada, and having lived and/or worked on every continent except the Antarctic, I can say this from personal experience. (I am also sure there is also a Harvard community in Antarctica. I just haven’t met them yet.) Harvard belongs to all of us. “Wherever you go, this community will be there for you. We are waiting to meet you and we already have your back.” Harvard belongs to all of us and we belong to Harvard and to each other. This manifests itself most clearly, when — as alumni — we elect the Overseers of the University and Elected Directors of the Harvard Alumni Association. This is an enormous responsibility, which we hold together. Harvard alumni have created this community for you and now you can join us in paying it forward. Wherever, however, and whenever, there are so many ways for you to maintain and build your own Harvard community. It could be by continuing to hang out with your classmates, physically or virtually; or via your School reunions; or through your local club; or through one of the 57 HAA Shared Interest Groups like Harvard Alumni Entrepreneurs, Harvard Alumni for Education, Harvard-Radcliffe Science Fiction Alumni, or Harvard Alumni for Oceania. Look for us on your School or Harvard Alumni Association website, on our club and shared-interest-group websites; our Facebook pages; on our Instagram and Twitter feeds; and even in the depths of subreddits. Wherever you go, this community will be there for you. We are waiting to meet you and we already have your back. Come and find us! So, I know now where I will be on May 28. I won’t be in Tercentenary Theatre; I will be here in Melbourne, Australia, in the middle of the night in my pajamas, watching the livestream from Cambridge together with you and your families and crying tears of joy and pride for Hamish; for Ana, Liz, and Spencer; and for the incomparable Harvard University Class of 2020. The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Victory of perseverance, vision over more than decade of challenges Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 View all of Honoring the Class of 2020 Up Next Campus The COVID-19 evacuation wasn’t Harvard’s first Campus & Community The COVID-19 evacuation wasn’t Harvard’s first Photo illustration by Judy Blomquist/Harvard Staff