Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeHome Inline CSS for Tulane News Articles Doctoral student takes $25,000 prize at Rice competition April 20, 2016 2:00 PM | New Wave staff newwave@tulane.edu Print to PDF 042016_Pashos_award_730_TU.jpg Nicholas Pashos, who is studying bioinnovation in a Tulane doctoral program, won awards this month for his company, BioAesthetics, and its new approach to breast reconstruction surgery. The company won $10,000 in the Tulane Novel Tech Challenge on April 13 and $25,000 at the Rice Business Plan Competition on April 16. (Photo by Tulane University) Tulane University doctoral student Nicholas Pashos is continuing to gather recognition and funding for his BioAesthetics company, which won the $25,000 Women’s Health and Wellness Prize, and then first place in a challenge round for $1,000, at the Rice Business Plan Competition in Houston. BioAesthetics has a new approach that could transform breast reconstruction surgery for cancer survivors. The team is developing a tissue-engineered nipple-areola complex that allows the patient’s own cells to regenerate a new nipple and areola in the event of loss due to trauma or disease. Pashos’ team also was named the first-place experienced team in the recent Tulane Novel Tech Challenge. In addition, the Tulane team from D&P BioInnovations took fifth place in their semi-final round for $1,250. The regenerative medicine company, focused on repairing damaged organs, is developing an implantable medical device to functionally regenerate a damaged esophagus. “They were great competitors!” Lea Aden Lueck, Rice Business Plan Competition D&P is led by founder, inventor and chief science officer Derek C. Dashti, but Pashos is the company’s bioengineer and Karolina Kosakowska, its director of strategy, helped pitch the company at Rice. All three are in the bioinnovation doctoral program at Tulane. “They were great competitors!” said Lea Aden Lueck, director of the competition. The Rice University competition announced the awards on Saturday (April 16), an annual event which is promoted as the world’s richest and largest student startup competition. The top winner, TriFusion Devices from Texas A&M University, took home nearly $400,000 in cash and prizes. This year’s competitors at Rice were the most diverse in the history of the competition and came from top universities around the globe. The teams were chosen from nearly 400 entrants to compete in several categories. Related Articles Other Related Articles Krewe de Lose Student researchers present their ‘novel’ ideas Public supports education reforms, undecided on governance Tulane-based technology wins business model prize Crawfest turns 10 Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University