Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home Off the Shelf Off the Shelf Off the Shelf is a Columbia News series in which professors discuss their recently published books, as well as what they have read recently and recommend, and who they would invite to the perfect dinner party. School of the Arts Writing Professor Margo Jefferson has received many accolades throughout her career, including a Pulitzer Prize and a National Book Critics Circle Award for Autobiography, for her first memoir, "Negroland." Off the Shelf A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir May 31, 2022 In her new book, Professor Margo Jefferson examines her life against a backdrop of American cultural influences. Lawrence Brown has taught since 1988 at the Mailman School of Public Health, where he was the chair of the Department of Health Policy and Management for 10 years. Off the Shelf A New Book Urges You to Get Up and Get Active May 27, 2022 Mailman Professor Lawrence Brown’s “Political Exercise” is at the intersection of public health and urban planning. Diane Vaughan has taught in Columbia's Sociology Department since 2005. Off the Shelf The Complex World of Air Traffic Controllers May 23, 2022 In “Dead Reckoning,” Sociology Professor Diane Vaughan looks at the effort it takes for controllers to keep the skies safe. Robert O'Meally has been an English professor for 25 years, and is also the founder and director of Columbia’s Center for Jazz Studies. Off the Shelf A New History of Black Creativity and Aesthetics May 10, 2022 In “Antagonistic Cooperation,” Professor Robert O’Meally explores everyone from Bearden and Basquiat to Ellison, Morrison, and Ellington. Michael Witgen is a professor in the History Department and the Center for the Study of Ethnicity and Race; he is also a citizen of the Red Cliff Band of Lake Superior Ojibwe. Off the Shelf A Story of Native Persistence in the Great Lakes Region May 03, 2022 History Professor Michael Witgen brings the success of the Anishinaabeg to life in his new book, “Seeing Red.” W. Warner Burke is a professor of psychology and education at Teachers College. Off the Shelf How Do You Build a Lasting Business? April 26, 2022 Professor and co-author W. Christina Staudt, left, and Karla Rothstein are co-editors of "The Future of the Corpse." Off the Shelf A New Take on Death and Dying April 11, 2022 In “The Future of the Corpse,” co-editors Karla Rothstein and Christina Staudt review the spectrum of death care rituals and offer ideas for change Andie Tucher has taught at the Journalism School since 1998, and writes widely on the evolution of conventions of truth-telling in journalism, photography, personal narrative, and other nonfiction forms. Off the Shelf How Can You Separate Fact From Fiction in the News? April 05, 2022 Journalism Professor Andie Tucher explains the differences in her new book, “Not Exactly Lying.” Hannah Assadi received her MFA in writing from the School of the Arts, where she now teaches. Off the Shelf A New Novel Blends Loss, Memory, and the Consequences of Choices March 30, 2022 Hannah Assadi’s “The Stars Are Not Yet Bells” follows a woman from her youth during the Depression through the onset of Alzheimer’s. Arden Hegele specializes in 19th-century British literature and the medical and health humanities. Off the Shelf Little-Known Links Between Literature and Medicine Are Examined in a New Book March 23, 2022 Arden Hegele explores what Jane Austen and Alfred Tennyson shared with anatomy and pathology in “Romantic Autopsy.” Lynn Garafola is also the author of "Diaghilev's Ballets Russes and Legacies of Twentieth-Century Dance." Off the Shelf Nijinsky's Little-Known Sister Is the Subject of a New Book March 17, 2022 Lynn Garafola's "La Nijinska" sheds light on a remarkably productive dancer and choreographer. Adjunct Associate Writing Professor Lee Siegel has written six other books, and received a National Magazine Award for reviews and criticism. Off the Shelf Why Do We Argue? March 14, 2022 In his new book, Professor Lee Siegel explains that argument is at the heart of human experience. Pagination Current page 1 Page 2 Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Next pageNext › Last pageLast » Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close