Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community COVID-19 Update: Public Health Protocols for Summer 2022 Tuesday, May 17, 2022, By News Staff Share COVID 19public health update Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: With the 2021-22 academic year officially behind us, I want to again express my gratitude for the cooperation and flexibility of our students, faculty and staff, who committed to the public health safeguards necessary to maintain a robust residential academic experience over the past year. It has taken a dedicated community effort to get us to this point, and I’m extremely proud of all we’ve accomplished together. Looking ahead, I write to share updates to public health protocols for summer 2022, as the University continues to align its policies and recommendations with best practices for endemic management. Importantly, these updates pertain specifically to summer operations and do not necessarily reflect policies or procedures in place for the Fall 2022 semester. We will share additional public health updates as we head toward the next academic year, applicable to the fall semester and beyond. Today’s update includes information on the following topics: Testing Services and Requirements COVID Level Masking Framework Isolation/Quarantine Housing on Campus Vaccine Requirements Updated Travel Policy Staffing Changes for COVID Support Functions COVID-19 Dashboard Updates Testing Services and Requirements Effective Monday, May 23, the University will suspend on-campus testing operations. Testing services will not be available at the stadium or Kimmel during the summer months. Symptomatic students in need of COVID testing services can make an appointment at the Barnes Center by calling 315.443.8000. Faculty and staff requiring a COVID test are encouraged to utilize a community provider, your primary care physician or an at-home COVID test. At-home tests are currently available free of charge from the federal government. Given the above, it follows that effective May 23 the University will also suspend the random surveillance testing program for vaccinated students, faculty and staff, and the weekly testing requirement for vaccine-exempt community members. The University’s COVID-19 wastewater surveillance testing program will continue throughout the summer, specifically tailored to monitor campus facilities in use during summer programs. COVID Level Masking Framework The COVID Level framework that currently outlines masking requirements on campus will remain in place throughout the summer. As is current practice, the Syracuse University Public Health Team will continually evaluate and recommend any changes to the COVID Level and associated masking guidance as needed based on conditions on campus and in the surrounding community. Any changes to the COVID Level will be communicated campuswide via email, text message, social media and the Syracuse.edu/staysafe and news.syr.edu websites. Isolation/Quarantine Housing on Campus Effective Monday, May 23, on-campus isolation and quarantine housing will be provided only to students living in Syracuse University housing, including residence halls and apartments. The University will continue to reserve a number of South Campus apartments for this purpose over the summer. Students who live off campus will be responsible for securing their own isolation and quarantine housing, if required, at their own expense. Vaccine Requirements Incoming residential Syracuse University students will be subject to the same COVID-19 and flu vaccine requirements that were in place for the 2021-22 academic year. For COVID, full immunization is defined as a full course of the initial COVID vaccine plus a booster dose, although this definition is subject to change based on evolving vaccination guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. New Student and Family Programs will communicate directly with incoming students about the requirements. Updated Travel Policy Effective Monday, May 23, travel for University purposes may freely resume, subject to usual approval processes. All travelers must continue to register their travel at travelregistry.syr.edu. Faculty and staff travelers are strongly encouraged to plan for the possibility of contracting COVID-19 and the need to isolate with consequent travel disruption. Departments or units sponsoring student travel must have a plan to accommodate any student required to isolate or quarantine during travel and be prepared to support the traveler during any confinement. All costs associated with COVID-19 isolation while traveling are the responsibility of the sponsoring department. International travel that includes students is subject to the University’s Travel Safety policy. As a reminder, student travel to destinations rated as a Level 3 or 4 by the U.S. Department of State is considered high risk and is subject to review by the University. Those with questions about travel safety issues may contact Seth Tucker, director of global safety and support, at satucker@syr.edu or 315.443.1968. Staffing Updates for COVID Support Functions Effective Monday, May 23, the University’s COVID Project Management Office (PMO), which has been operational for more than two years during the pandemic, will stand down. COVID-related questions and concerns moving forward should be directed to the Barnes Center (students) or Human Resources Shared Services (faculty/staff). Contact tracing will transition to the self-disclosure method currently in place throughout New York state. The Syracuse University Public Health Team will continue to meet and advise leadership on COVID-related matters. COVID-19 Dashboard Updates Friday, May 20, will be the last update to the COVID-19 Dashboard for the summer months. Public health information will continue to be shared as appropriate, and community members are encouraged to continue visiting Syracuse.edu/staysafe as the primary source of information and the latest updates about the University’s COVID-19 response. Thank you for taking the time to read this important message and for your continued commitment to each other and to the larger Syracuse community. Best of luck to all our graduates and wishing you all a safe, healthy, restful and productive summer. Sincerely, J. Michael Haynie Vice Chancellor for Strategic Initiatives and Innovation Author News Staff Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.