Skip to main content calendar subscribe Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds YaleNews Explore Topics Alumni Arts & Humanities Business Campus & Community Environment Health & Medicine International Law Science & Technology Social Sciences In Focus In Memoriam Search form Search International Stories Does China’s research and development funding reach the right firms? May 31, 2022 New research shows that improving resource efficiency in China’s economy could deliver gains by encouraging “the right” firms to invest in R&D. Creating a cap-and-trade market for carbon emissions in Gujarat, India May 27, 2022 A team including Yale researchers is collaborating to develop the first cap-and-trade market of its kind among emerging economies, outside of China. PODCAST: Training the next generation of African economists May 24, 2022 The first episode of a new Yale podcast on sustainable development and economic justice features Leonard Wantchekon on founding the African School of Economics. Graduating seniors and an alumna win fellowships for study in the U.K. May 24, 2022 Seven new Yale College graduates and one alumna have been awarded fellowships from various organizations for graduate study in the United Kingdom. Jackson celebrates Class of 2022 graduates May 23, 2022 The Jackson Institute for Global Affairs celebrated its graduates today, awarding 31 M.A. degrees and 11 M.A.S. degrees in Global Affairs. Giving back and building hope at Nido de Esperanza May 18, 2022 Alison Gardy ’88 shares her experience with Yale volunteers at El Nido de Esperanza, which provides supplies, wisdom, and guidance to mothers of infants. Zelenskyy calls on universities to help rebuild Ukraine’s higher ed system May 18, 2022 On Monday, Ukraine’s president met with the heads of America’s leading research universities to discuss how educators can help in the days and months ahead. What can international climate change agreements actually achieve? May 18, 2022 Yale economist Giovanni Maggi discusses how climate change could affect future generations, and how international cooperation may or may not meet the challenge. With new shield, Jackson School reflects ambitions, global perspective May 12, 2022 Introducing the new Jackson School’s shield, which is divided into quarters and features blue and white horizontal stripes and two gold armillary spheres. Multinationals can have a positive local impact — with enough competition May 11, 2022 New Yale research looks at the impact of the United Fruit Company on Costa Rica, finding competition for labor in the 20th century led to beneficial investment. Show More Articles Search International Yale Browse Archives Contact Us For the Media It’s Your Yale Apply to Yale Give to Yale Managed by the Office of Public Affairs & Communications Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy · Accessibility at Yale Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds Yale on Instagram