Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Graduate School of Design studio investigates ‘120 years of environmental injustice’ in Oklahoma The Loeb Fellowship at the Harvard Graduate School of Design announces Class of 2022 News + News from Harvard schools, offices, and affiliates Graduate School of Design studio investigates ‘120 years of environmental injustice’ in Oklahoma News + Graduate School of Design studio investigates ‘120 years of environmental injustice’ in Oklahoma Jinying Zhang's (MLA ’21) project for Niall Kirkwood's Spring 2021 Option Studio “TAR CREEK REMADE: Environmental Legacy, Toxic Terrain and Re-Imagining the Future in the Tri-State Mining Area, Ottawa County, Oklahoma, USA.” DateAugust 3, 2021August 4, 2021 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Contact TDagenais@gsd.harvard.edu https://www.gsd.harvard.edu/ From an airplane or satellite, Picher, Oklahoma, appears as an anomaly in the endless green grid of agricultural land at the center of the United States. Huge irregular gray blots and dark pools interrupt the geometric precision of roads, and the colorful smear of Tar Creek runs diagonally through the town. Abandoned a decade ago — like its neighbors Cardin and Douthat, Oklahoma, and Treece, Kansas — Picher reveals a legacy of environmental indifference and staggering injustice. Disincorporated and abandoned by 2010, vestiges of the towns remain among the toxic piles and sinkholes. Cleanup has been exceedingly slow, and until recently, members of the Quapaw Nation, who owned parts of the land, were excluded from the remediation effort. Quapaw tribal members had been forced by the federal government to sign unfavorable leases during the mid-1890s under the pretext that they were “incompetent,” incapable of using their own land profitably. Consequently, the Quapaw tribal members received none of the mining profits but were left with the toxic and hazardous waste when the mines closed. GSD professor Niall Kirkwood describes this passionately as “a horrific story. . . 120 years of environmental injustice.” By design, the brutal legacy of the mines haunted his spring 2021 landscape architecture studio, “Tar Creek Remade: Environmental Legacy, Toxic Terrain and Re-Imagining the Future in the Tri-State Mining Area, Ottawa County, Oklahoma, USA.” From the beginning, Kirkwood challenged his 10 students to take on this immense problem of Tar Creek—a project “so utterly terrifying and so utterly complex that any sense of a resolution within a 15-week period is almost impossible”—with energy and creativity, but also realistically, anticipating small steps and a long time frame. It is crucial, he warned, to anticipate that progress will occur only “little by little” over centuries. Accordingly, their task was to “to go down to the micro-scale on the site. . .” and to propose “test experiments. . . they could scale up over the site — a hundred times, a thousand times, ten thousand times.” In addition to many technical experts, Kirkwood invited two long-time participants in the Tar Creek evolution to advise the class. Rebecca Jim and Earl Hatley, Quapaw tribal advisors and co-founders of Local Environmental Action Demanded (LEAD), based in Miami, OK, are deeply familiar with the frustratingly slow progress and long time frame at Tar Creek. Since 1997, their non-profit organization has advocated for all the tribal and non-tribal communities in the area, pointing out that “the EPA and State of Oklahoma have spent more than $300 million at Tar Creek — yet the creek still flows orange, tailings piles still loom on the horizon and children are still poisoned by lead.” Read Full Story Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Up Next News + News from Harvard schools, offices, and affiliates The Loeb Fellowship at the Harvard Graduate School of Design announces Class of 2022 News + The Loeb Fellowship at the Harvard Graduate School of Design announces Class of 2022 Harvard GSD's incoming Loeb Fellowship Class of 2022. Clockwise from top left: Andrea Bolnick, Jordan Weber, Will Hunter, Monica Rhodes, Michael Uwemedimo, Veyom Bahl, Karen Dawn Blondel, Mpho Matsipa, Stephanie Hankey, and Moddie Turay