Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Counseling Available in Wake of Orlando Shooting facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: counseling center May 19, 2022 The Gift of a Student’s Trust Monica Osburn is executive director of the Counseling Center, where thousands of students turn each year to find help with anxiety, depression and other problems. Oct 11, 2021 Supporting Our Community Mental Health First Aid training empowers everyone in the NC State community to recognize and address mental health crises. May 7, 2021 Strong Finish Sirena Rowe, who helped NC State win an NCAA swimming relay title, recounts the highs and lows of her time in college. She graduates with a passion to help others and an eye on the Tokyo Olympics. Jan 12, 2021 Study Finds Risk Factors Linked to COVID-19 Mental Health Impacts for College Students A study of students at seven U.S. universities identified risk factors for greater mental health impacts linked to the COVID-19 pandemic. Oct 13, 2020 Counseling the Pack The Counseling Center and Prevention Services made a seamless transition to telehealth, and staff and mental health services have been more accessible than ever before during the COVID-19 pandemic. Jun 13, 2016 Counseling Available in Wake of Orlando Shooting Students troubled by Sunday’s mass shooting at a gay nightclub in Florida are encouraged to take advantage of services offered through NC State’s Counseling Center. Read Chancellor Woodson's response to the tragedy. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.