Skip to Content Skip to Main Navigation Skip to Search Indiana University Indiana University IU Menu News at IU Bloomington News at IU All Campuses Close dropdown Topics for All Campuses Arts & Humanities Business & Innovation Campus Life Health & Wellness Global Law & Policy Science & Technology Administration News For Students Faculty & Staff IU Community Media Campus Newsrooms Trending Tags IU South Bend Community Engagement Kelley School of Business View all tags IU Bloomington Close dropdown IU Bloomington Topics Arts & Humanities Business & Innovation Campus Life Health & Wellness Global Law & Policy Science & Technology Administration News For Students Faculty & Staff IU Community Media Trending Tags Kelley School of Business Indiana Business Research Center News Release View all tags IUPUI Close dropdown IUPUI Topics Arts & Humanities Business & Innovation Campus Life Health & Wellness Global Law & Policy Science & Technology Administration News For Students Faculty & Staff IU Community Media Trending Tags View all tags Search Campus Life New Jewish Culture Center, in partnership with IU Hillel, open on Bloomington campus For Immediate Release May 3, 2022 BLOOMINGTON, Ind. -- IU Hillel is strengthening its relationship with Indiana University by opening a Jewish Culture Center on the Bloomington campus. Working in partnership with the Office of the Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Multicultural Affairs, the new Jewish Culture Center offers events and activities, as well as cultural and social programming opportunities, to Jewish students, faculty and staff. It is also open to those wanting to learn more about Jewish culture, heritage and traditions. View print quality image A new Jewish Culture Center has opened in the Hillel Center on the IU Bloomington campus. Photo by James Brosher, Indiana University "As a university, our goal is to create a campus where everyone feels welcome, respected and comfortable no matter their race, ethnicity, identity, or political or religious beliefs," said James C. Wimbush, vice president for diversity, equity and multicultural affairs, dean of The University Graduate School and the Johnson Chair for Diversity and Leadership. "The Jewish Culture Center is an extension of this belief, one that also gives our Jewish students and others greater access to the many diverse cultural centers and programs on campus and represents an extraordinary learning opportunity for IU students, faculty and the community." In the fall, IU Hillel launched an Antisemitism Prevention Task Force following a series of antisemitic incidents on the IU Bloomington campus. The Jewish Culture Center is another way to combat hate and educate the IU community so individuals of all faiths feel welcomed and valued. "Approximately 4,000-plus Jewish students attend Indiana University," said Rabbi Sue Laikin Silberberg, executive director of IU Hillel. "It's our hope that this collaboration answers the needs of these students and that the new Jewish Culture Center gives them and others a dedicated space to call home. Just as important, the center will serve as a valuable resource for students, faculty and staff to learn about cultural identity and better understand each other." Since 1938, the Helene G. Simon Hillel Center at Indiana University has been a central gathering place for Jewish students to celebrate Judaism and Jewish life. Leaders of the center are committed to supporting and honoring the diversity of the Jewish student community at IU, and to ensuring that Jewish college students have opportunities to recognize and develop their leadership potential and express their faith in traditional and creative ways. The Jewish Culture Center supplements the work of IU Hillel by looking at Judaism as a civilization and focuses on educating the entire campus community about Jewish culture. In addition, it furthers partnerships with Greek life orgainzations, the Borns Jewish Studies Program and other campus culture centers to expand programming and learning opportunities focused on Jewish culture. IU Hillel is currently located at 730 E. Third St. in Bloomington. A capital campaign is underway to move it and the Jewish Culture Center to a more central location near campus in the 2024-25 academic year. Elliot Lewis, a dedicated IU Hillel and Bloomington community member, has committed a gift of $50,000 in memory of George and Sydell Lewis to support the Jewish Culture Center. Filed Under: Campus Life Diversity Faculty and Staff Media News Release Student Experience Students Top Stories Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Multicultural Affairs Contact Elizabeth Blevins Office of the Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Multicultural Affairs Phone: 812-855-9772| Email: eablevin@iu.eduResources for media More from the newsroom Recommended from the newsroom IU Bloomington a top producer for Fulbright U.S. Student Program for 2021-22 Indiana University | Feb. 28, 2022 Health care wage growth has lagged behind other industries, despite pandemic burden Indiana University | Feb. 25, 2022 IU partners with Native American tribe to expand COVID-19 study Indiana University | Feb. 17, 2022 Afghan violinist pursues dream at Jacobs School with help of alumnus Indiana University | Feb. 22, 2022 Trending Articles Nearly 1 in 3 young men in the US report having no sex, study finds Blood test for depression, bipolar disorder offers promise of personalized treatment Pulitzer-winning alumni reflect on insurrection coverage, career preparation at IU Granfalloon returns this summer with headliners Japanese Breakfast and Car Seat Headrest Westfield set pace for Indiana's population growth in 2021 News at IU social media channels Twitter Facebook YouTube LinkedIn Contact, Address and Additional Links TEAM About News & Media Specialists RESOURCES For the Media For Faculty & Staff Media Studios Archive IU Experts SUBSCRIBE Email Newsletters & Press Releases RSS feeds INDIANA UNIVERSITY NEWS & MEDIA 517 E. Kirkwood Avenue Von Lee Second Floor Bloomington, IN 47408 newsroom@iu.edu Accessibility | Privacy Notice | Copyright © 2022 The Trustees of Indiana University IU IU Bloomington IUPUI IU Topics Arts & Humanities Business & Innovation Campus Life Health & Wellness Global Law & Policy Science & Technology Administration News For Students Faculty & Staff IU Community Media Trending Tags IU South Bend Community Engagement Kelley School of Business View all tags