Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Study of African American Language Wins Prestigious Linguistics Award facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Awards and Honors May 3, 2022 National Inventors Hall of Fame Honors 3 With Ties to NC State Three innovators who have served on NC State's faculty are inducted into the prestigious organization at a two-day event in Washington, D.C. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Apr 25, 2022 NC State Announces 2021-22 Goodnight Early Career Innovators The program recognizes and rewards promising NC State early-career faculty whose scholarship is in STEM or STEM education. Apr 13, 2022 Cutting Through the Noise NC State poet and professor Eduardo C. Corral untangles the chaos of everyday life — and earns a 2022 Guggenheim Fellowship for his efforts. Apr 12, 2022 Laura Clarke Wins UNC Board of Governors Award for Excellence in Teaching The NC State physics professor has received the university system’s most prestigious teaching award for her extraordinary teaching contributions. Apr 12, 2022 Lisa Bullard Receives Inaugural Provost’s Award for Excellence in Teaching Lisa Bullard, a teaching professor in the Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, was honored for being a nationally-recognized teacher and advisor in engineering education. Mar 30, 2022 Graduate Programs Rise in Rankings This year's U.S. News rankings bring good news for graduate programs across the university. Three programs place in the top 10 nationwide while numerous other graduate programs advance. Mar 21, 2022 5 Faculty Win Holladay Medal Meet the faculty members who received the Alexander Quarles Holladay Medal for Excellence, the highest honor bestowed by NC State and the university’s Board of Trustees. Mar 17, 2022 NC State Honors 10 Faculty Members with Outstanding Research Award, Induction into Research Leadership Academy Get to know the newest recipients of the university's top award for research and mentorship. Feb 25, 2022 NC State’s Jane Hoppin Wins Holshouser Award For her work examining the impact of environmental exposures on human health, Hoppin is one of two UNC System employees to be honored. Feb 21, 2022 NC State Named Best Large Employer in North Carolina Forbes surveyed 60,000 Americans to find the best places to work across the nation. In North Carolina, the top choice is NC State. Jan 31, 2022 2021-22 University Faculty Scholars Named NC State’s 2021-22 class of University Faculty Scholars was announced today. These 23 early- and mid-career faculty receive this designation in recognition of their outstanding academic achievements and contributions to NC State through their teaching, scholarship and service to the university and beyond. Jan 26, 2022 AAAS Elects Fellows The election of eight faculty researchers to the prestigious scientific society signals NC State's rising reputation as a research powerhouse. Dec 14, 2021 Lonnie Poole Golf Course Honored for Youth Access NC State's course has hosted more than 1,900 rounds for Youth on Course members during the 2020 calendar year, the most of any course in the Carolinas. Nov 29, 2021 A New Coat of Excellence in Cardiology from a Close Friend of NC State When Cindy Clark and Joe Hackley realized that they had never done anything to formally recognize Terri DeFrancesco, a coat of excellence seemed to be the perfect way to do it. Nov 17, 2021 Study of African American Language Wins Prestigious Linguistics Award A research team led by Professor Walt Wolfram has been honored for its unprecedented research on how language changes during the first 20 years of life. Posts navigation 1 2 … 37 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.