Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community Juvare Pledges Cash Donation to the Our Time Has Come Scholarship Program Friday, November 20, 2020, By News Staff Share Diversity and InclusionOur Time Has ComescholarshipsStudents A company led by a Syracuse University alumnus that specializes in emergency preparedness and response technology is now helping diverse young men and women realize their dream of a college education. This comes in the form of a cash donation to the Our Time Has Come (OTHC) Scholarship Program by Juvare, which makes software that helps corporations, hospitals, government agencies and municipalities with emergency management and response. The gift is the latest in support of Forever Orange: The Campaign for Syracuse University’s $1.5 billion goal, and will support the Our Time Has Come Scholarship Program. Launched in 1987, the Our Time Has Come Scholarship Program is the largest scholarship fund benefitting Black and Latino students at Syracuse University. For Juvare, it’s another example of how the company is giving back, especially during challenging times, with recognition that a college education and workplace experience is vital for success. Case in point: Juvare continues to offer internships to students, realizing the importance of the workplace experience. To date, over 1,500 OTHC scholarships have been awarded, creating opportunities for many young men and women. Among them are Juvare senior vice president of software engineering Reggie Acloque, an OTHC scholar from the Class of ’99. “At Juvare, we understand the power of a scholarship, especially one that helps drive inclusion, diversity, equity and access,” says Acloque. “Personally, for me, the Our Time Has Come scholarship afforded me the opportunity to both finance and finish my education at SU. We view this scholarship as a way that we can pay it forward by contributing to a student’s academic and leadership development, helping them excel in their field of study, and providing a richer and fulfilling student experience, without the additional stress of financial burdens.” “We value diversity at Juvare and are constantly striving to be better,” says Juvare President and CEO Bob Watson ’79. “We realize the importance of a Syracuse University education and take pride in being able to make this dream a reality for underserved students through the Our Time Has Come scholarship.” “Juvare’s generous gift to the Our Time Has Come scholarship fund will benefit many talented and deserving students for many years to come,” says Rachel Vassel, assistant vice president in the Office of Multicultural Advancement. “It’s rewarding and enriching that great alumni like Bob and Reggie are literally giving back, and I’m especially pleased that this comes from a former OTHC scholarship recipient.” For the academic year 2020-2021, almost 90 students were awarded OTHC scholarships. “When companies like Juvare work together with us to equip students of color to be successful, there is no stopping them,” says Angela Morales-Patterson, director of operations and partnerships in the Office of Multicultural Advancement, who leads corporate relations for the program. “Corporate partnerships like this one will change the world for the better.” About Juvare Juvare is a worldwide leader in emergency preparedness and incident management and response technology. Juvare solutions empower government agencies, corporations, healthcare facilities, academic institutions, and volunteer organizations to leverage real-time data to manage incidents faster and more efficiently, protecting people, property, and brands. For more information, visit www.juvare.com/ca/solutions. About Syracuse University Syracuse University is a private research university that advances knowledge across disciplines to drive breakthrough discoveries and breakout leadership. Our collection of 13 schools and colleges with over 200 customizable majors close the gap between education and action, so students can take on the world. In and beyond the classroom, we connect people, perspectives and practices to solve interconnected challenges with interdisciplinary approaches. Together, we’re a powerful community that moves ideas, individuals and impact beyond what’s possible. About Forever Orange Orange isn’t just our color. It’s our promise to leave the world better than we found it. Forever Orange: The Campaign for Syracuse University is poised to do just that. Fueled by 150 years of fearless firsts, together we can enhance academic excellence, transform the student experience and expand unique opportunities for learning and growth. Forever Orange endeavors to raise $1.5 billion in philanthropic support, inspire 125,000 individual donors to participate in the campaign, and actively engage one in five alumni in the life of the University. Now is the time to show the world what Orange can do. Visit syracuse.edu/foreverorange to learn more. Author News Staff Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.