Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF News lock Portal Login Give Search search Menu Topics Campus and Community Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Athletics Topics A-Z CSUF In the News Titan Spotlight People & Voices Faculty and Staff Students Alumni Titans of Academia Titans of Promise Titan Voices Titans of Tassel Events Resources E-Newsletter Subscription RSS Feeds Photos For Journalists Publications Arts University Recognizes Graduates in Health, Human Development, Sciences, Mathematics and Arts May 25, 2022 Cal State Fullerton’s 2022 Commencement continued Tuesday with ceremonies for the colleges of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, Health and Human Development, and the Arts. Titan of the Year Named at University Awards Program April 21, 2022 Three Titan Excellence winners were honored during Cal State Fullerton’s 2022 University Awards Program, and one was recognized as the Titan of the Year. Musicologist Earns Shields Award for Helping Students Discover Their Musical Roots April 14, 2022 John Koegel, professor of music, receives CSUF’s 2022 L. Donald Shields Excellence in Scholarship and Creativity Award. Updating University Infrastructure and Technology April 13, 2022 Campus members will notice multiple infrastructure project updates during the 2022-23 school year. ‘What the Constitution Means to Me’ April 6, 2022 Students across the country will discuss playwright and actor Heidi Schreck’s Broadway hit, “What the Constitution Means to Me.” Music Professor Wins Grammy for Best Choral Performance April 5, 2022 Cal State Fullerton music professor Robert Istad won his first Grammy for the recording of “Mahler: Symphony No. 8, ‘Symphony of a Thousand.’” Music Alumnus Earns Position With Puerto Rico Symphony Orchestra March 25, 2022 The Puerto Rico Symphony Orchestra has added music alumnus and oboist Jesus Ramos to its roster in the English horn position. Cal State Fullerton’s Vision & Visionaries Honorees Celebrated During Evening Gala March 8, 2022 At CSUF’s 25th Vision & Visionaries celebration, four Titan alumni and an honorary alumna were recognized for their service to the university and community. University Photographer Lands Photo in National Geographic History January 28, 2022 A photo taken by alumnus and university photographer Matt Gush was recently published in National Geographic History, known for its quality photojournalism. Faculty Impart Expertise Through Publications, Presentations and Awards January 6, 2022 See the latest from university faculty who have published, presented and received recognition on a variety of research topics. 1 2 3 4 … 42 → Browse All News Topics A-Z Athletics Follow Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube About CSUF Facts Contact Media Relations Find an Expert Privacy Policy Subscribe / Download Subscribe to our eNewsletters Submit a Story Do you have news you’d like to share with the campus? Submit Your Story This site is maintained by Strategic Communications. To report problems or comments, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility Learn about web accessibility Report a web accessbility problem Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Microsoft Viewers Some page features may require javascript to run.