Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Triple the joy A call to public service Campus & Community Triple the joy Campus & Community Triple the joy Harvard graduates celebrate Commencement 2022 in Tercentenary Theatre. Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographer Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement By Harvard Staff Photographers DateMay 29, 2022 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Finally. Tercentenary Theatre was awash once again with scenes of revelry as the Classes of 2022, 2021, and 2020 gathered to celebrate Commencement. Our photographers were there to capture the pageantry of time-honored traditions and the expressions of pride, triumph, and hope from graduates and their families. The Rev. Calvon Jones, assistant minister at Memorial Church, sings his blessing during the Baccalaureate Service. Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographer Pusey Minister Matthew Potts (from left), Mia Chandler, and Imam Khalil Abdur-Rashid listen during the Baccalaureate Service. Brady Duncan (from left), Jodie Duncan, and Kimberly Bothner photograph 2022 graduates. Photos by Stephanie Mitchell and Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographers Noah Epstein dances as students snake their way into Tercentenary Theatre for Baccalaureate Service. Photos by Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographer Following the ROTC Commissioning Ceremony for the Class of 2022, Gen. Mark A. Milley (center) speaks with officers and attendees. Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer Mather House marches up Plympton Street en route to Senior Service for the Class of 2022. Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographer Marshals Matthew Alderete ’19 (left) and Michael Alderete ’79 await the crowds before the gates open Thursday. Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer A bagpiper and drummers process past the John Harvard Statue for the Class of 2022 ceremony. Photos by Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern (left) files into the Yard. Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer The Harvard Band gathers at Widener Library on Thursday with a sea of family members below. Kris Snibbe/Harvard Staff Photographer Noah Harris, who delivered the Senior English Address for 2022, takes a selfie with Supreme Court appointee Ketanji Brown Jackson. Harvard President Larry Bacow and New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern take photos with graduates before the ceremony begins. Photos by Jon Chase and Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographers Class of 2022 graduates Luz Ramirez-Ramirez (from left), Atuganile Jimmy, Daren Braithwaite, Austin Goldsmith-Lachut, and Fernando Urbina celebrate. Kris Snibbe/Harvard Staff Photographer The view from Memorial Church’s leaded glass window. Veronica Leahy ’23 plays the national anthem on her horn to open Morning exercises for the Class of 2022. Her exquisite rendition earned her a standing ovation. Photos by Rose Lincoln and Jon Chase/Harvard Staff Photographers Harvard Graduate School of Design students celebrate their conferral of degrees on Thursday. Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographer Gloria Steinem (left) and Jacinda Ardern react as they receive their honorary degrees. Photos by Jon Chase/Harvard Staff Photographer Lauren Lee ’22 (left) and Nia Fernandes ’22 celebrate. Kris Snibbe/Harvard Staff Photographer Gillian Wilson and Deneysha Riley received diplomas from the Graduate School of Education. Photos by Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer Mather House manager Miguel Casillas high fives graduate Emma Buckles, a Harvard hockey player. Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographer Tré Hollingsworth (from left), DaLoria Boone, and Chelsea Offiaeli (all ’22) respond to an Ed School friend who stepped out of line to greet them. Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographer Derrick Ochiagha ’22 shares a moment with his mom, Peace Ochiagha, at Mather House. Rachel Eason ’22, an economics concentrator from California, is pictured at Winthrop House. Photos by Rose Lincoln and Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographers A student waves a Dunster House flag during the Class of 2022 ceremony. Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer A student and a marshal listen to the Morning Exercises. Photos by Rose Lincoln/Harvard Staff Photographer Facilities workers hang the Veritas flag over the John Harvard Statue as the Classes of 2020 and 2021 process into the Yard. Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer Students stream by the John Harvard Statue before Commencement for the Classes of 2020 and 2021. Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer Honorary degree recipient Sebastião Salgado is pictured outside Massachusetts Hall, while Margaret Marshall processes into Tercentenary Theatre. Photos by Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer Jane Tjahjono, a 2020 graduate of Harvard Kennedy School, holds a globe during the ceremony. Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer Editor's Picks World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Up Next Campus A call to public service Campus & Community A call to public service “Don’t let your generation be defined by the pandemic,” said U.S. Attorney General Merrick Garland. “Let it be defined by public service.” Stephanie Mitchell/Harvard Staff Photographer