Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search 75 Years of Flight (and Climbing) Breadcrumb Home Features Stacy Braukman March 25, 2022 In August 1945, weeks after Japan’s surrender marked the end of World War II, a group of Tech students gathered in Room 11 of the Aerospace Engineering Building to form a flying club. As an announcement in the Georgia Tech student newspaper, the Technique, put it, “There are a large number of Naval ROTC, veteran, and civilian fliers on the campus at the present time, and many other interested men want to learn to fly.” Members of the Yellow Jacket Flying Club with their fleet of Cessna 172 planes. Photo courtesy of the Yellow Jacket Flying Club The Yellow Jacket Flying Club (YJFC) is the oldest of its kind in the country. Members, alumni, and supporters had planned to celebrate the group’s 75th anniversary in 2020, but the pandemic made an in-person gathering impossible. Until now. On Saturday, April 2, at the Delta Flight Museum, the celebration is finally happening. “This anniversary is a milestone made possible by the dedication of countless students, alumni, flight instructors, maintenance staff, and more,” said Alec Liberman, a fourth-year aerospace engineering student from Newton, Massachusetts. “It means that there are people who are continuously passionate about the club and its success.” Liberman began flying in high school, and the Yellow Jacket Flying Club was a major factor in his decision to attend Tech. He has been active in the organization since day one, earning both flight instructor and instrument flight instructor certificates as well as a commercial multi-engine rating through the club. He’s tallied nearly 300 hours on YJFC airplanes, and served as both treasurer and president of the YJFC. Along the way, he learned “crucial leadership skills,” from decision-making and conflict resolution to fundraising and public speaking. “I would not be the person and leader I am today had it not been for the YJFC,” he said. The club welcomes members from all experience levels. And it’s not only open to students. Tech alumni, faculty, and staff can also participate, and Liberman encourages anyone interested in aviation to attend a new member meeting, held every other Tuesday on campus. “For some, it may be a one-time thing with some pizza. For others, it will be an invaluable experience that sets them on a new life trajectory, as it has for many club members since 1945.” The YJFC owns and operates a fleet of four Cessna 172 airplanes and is based at the DeKalb-Peachtree Airport. Members can learn to fly, along with many other facets of aviation, at their own pace and at a low cost. The Ramblin' Wreck in line with the Yellow Jacket Flying Club's fleet. Photo courtesy of the Yellow Jacket Flying Club Inside a Cessna 172 plane. Photo courtesy of the Yellow Jacket Flying Club Dave Meilander has been associated with the club since the late 1970s, serving as a chief flight instructor for more than 25 years, and, for the past 10 years, as vice president of aircraft maintenance. “For me, after being introduced to flight in the fourth grade and learning to fly in another college flying club, flying has been a lifelong passion,” he said. “Forty years ago, I met my wife, Ellen Whitlock, in the club while teaching her to fly. What better reward is there?” The couple has served on the committee putting together the upcoming anniversary celebration. "The YJFC has played an important part in the history of Georgia Tech,” said club member Sam Mascuch, who is also part of the celebration planning committee, “and the 75th anniversary banquet is an excellent and fun opportunity to commemorate the activities of the club through the years.” And as for the next 75 years? “I'd like the club to keep on chugging,” Liberman said. “I want everyone on campus to have access to aviation, to experience what it's like seeing Atlanta from the air, and to feel the freedom that is flying an airplane. Georgia Tech students have a unique opportunity to do all of those things.” A view of suburban Atlanta from a YJFC plane. Photo by Stacy Braukman. In flight over Lake Lanier in a YJFC plane. Photo by Stacy Braukman. Members of the Yellow Jacket Flying Club anniversary planning committee (left to right): Dave Meilander, Ellen Whitlock, Jack Broadhead, Sam Mascuch, and Shahin Mehrabanzad. Photo courtesy of the Yellow Jacket Flying Club 75th Anniversary Celebration Learn more about the banquet and other anniversary activities taking place April 1-3, and purchase tickets, here. A Dream Come True In 2018, the YJFC helped make a Tech graduate’s wish come true by taking her flying. See the view from the cockpit here. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education