Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Rudershausen Pedals for Wildlife facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: center for marine sciences and technology May 25, 2022 A School of Fishes At a research center in the port town of Morehead City, 18 veterinary medicine students get hands-on experience operating on fish. Jul 24, 2019 Campus at the Coast NC State's Center for Marine Sciences and Technology (CMAST) offers students unique experiences and furthers the university's research and outreach mission. Jul 15, 2019 What Can Researchers Learn by Eavesdropping on Fish? Want to know how fish use oyster reefs? Eavesdrop on them. Jul 17, 2015 Centuries-Old Shipwreck Discovered Off North Carolina Coast Scanning sonar from a scientific expedition has revealed the remains of a previously unknown shipwreck more than a mile deep off the North Carolina coast. Artifacts on the wreck indicate it might date to the American Revolution. Feb 10, 2015 Exploring the Deep Sea: Adventures of a Researcher in the Field For centuries, scientists thought that all life depended on the sun. They were wrong. Apr 13, 2011 Join the Skeleton Crew To raise $10,000 to reconstruct the skeleton of a bottle-nosed dolphin, NC State’s Center for Marine Sciences and Technology is inviting supporters to join the Skeleton Crew. Jun 23, 2010 Vets Head to Gulf Two NC State veterinarians and a veterinary technician headed south this week after receiving an emergency request from the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration for marine animal experts to assist in the Gulf Coast oil spill response. They join an NC State avian expert already in the field. May 14, 2010 Green Elected Fellow Dr. David Green, professor and department extension leader in food, bioprocessing and nutrition sciences, has been elected a fellow of the Institute of Food Technologists. Dec 3, 2009 Research on the Half Shell NC State researchers and partners will lend a hand with a project to revitalize oyster beds along the Pamlico Sound and create jobs in an industry that has suffered during the recent economic downturn. Oct 1, 2009 Rudershausen Pedals for Wildlife Biologist Paul Rudershausen, a research assistant in the zoology lab at CMAST, put his devotion to wildlife in motion during a 36-day cross-country bicycle trek from the Oregon coast to the North Carolina coast. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.