Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences A new General Education course starting in spring 2023 in the College of Liberal Arts will concentrate on AAPI studies. May 24, 2022 Temple Robotics team prepares for NASA Lunabotics competition Temple University’s robotics team will head to the Kennedy Space Center in May for this year’s competition. May 18, 2022 Support Temple by becoming an Owl Advocate Owl Advocates support Temple by emailing elected officials, making phone calls and meeting with legislative leaders. May 18, 2022 Temple plans to repurpose former beloved campus bar into an upscale casual dining space Former campus bar The Draught Horse will be repurposed into an upscale casual dining facility to serve Temple and the local community. Temple joins parents for discussions on campus safety enhancements A roundtable discussion provided parents with an opportunity to share feedback and ask questions. Klein College announces launch of the Logan Center for Urban Investigative Reporting The Logan Center, opening summer 2022, will focus on urban issues including gun violence. President Wingard shares vision for taking Temple to the next level Temple's president spoke to university administrators at a recent town hall-style meeting. Temple’s LGBTQIA+ seniors celebrated at Lavender Graduation Lavender Graduation celebrated LGBTQIA+ students in Temple’s Class of 2022. Temple will celebrate the Class of 2022 with its first in-person, universitywide spring Commencement ceremony in 3 years Temple to celebrate Class of 2022 with in-person commencement ceremony. A national championship winning basketball coach joins two healthcare CEOs as this year’s honorary degree recipients Judith Faulkner, Ken Frazier and Dawn Staley will be honored during Temple’s 135th Commencement exercises. Homicides near universities are a crisis that needs immediate action and long-term solutions Temple University President Dr. Jason Wingard discusses how Temple is taking both immediate actions and also seeking long-term solutions when it comes to combating gun violence. President Wingard meets with former Philly police commissioner President Wingard meets with former Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles Ramsey. President Wingard explores campus solutions on bike ride through the neighborhood Temple University President Jason Wingard met with local residents last Tuesday afternoon. Archives Like what you see? Follow us on Twitter, Facebook and Youtube. Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades Latest Temple News Subscribe May 24 2022 New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences May 24 2022 What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities May 18 2022 Support Temple by becoming an Owl Advocate May 18 2022 Temple Robotics team prepares for NASA Lunabotics competition Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.