Skip to main content Search Close Search Search this site Search Search News and Media All of Oklahoma State University Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Headlines News and Media Main Menu In this section News News Archive Topics College News In the Media Magazines Experts Directory Submit News Contact Us Home College News College of Education and Human Sciences College of Education and Human Sciences A Vision for Transformation: Dr. Pedersen speaks about the future Dr. Jon E. Pedersen arrived in Stillwater this past summer, brimming with energy and excitement about the future of the new College of Education and Human Sciences that he’s now leading. Pedersen joined the Cowboy family following five years as dean of the University of South Carolina’s College of Education. He has more than 30 years of experience as a faculty member and administrator, including appointments at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, the University of Oklahoma, East Carolina University and the University of Arkansas- Fayetteville. View Story The latest Thu, May 19, 2022 OLLI call for fall course proposals Fri, May 13, 2022 Honors College students hooded for spring 2022 semester Mon, May 09, 2022 Meet Early Childhood Education Alumna, Hannah Severson View All In the Media The Conversation Is intermittent fasting the diet for you? Here’s what the science says New York Times Who is in your chosen family? News 9 Runners With OSU Ties Sweep 2022 OKC Memorial Marathon The Oklahoman COVID changed the way colleges prepare future teachers KFOR Oklahoma State University opens flight center View All Events Mon 6/6 Design Thinking Summer Academy - Session 1 Mon 6/13 Design Thinking Summer Academy - Session 2 Thu 6/23 3:00 p.m. College of Education and Human Sciences Faculty and Staff Summer Social Wed 8/17 Faculty and Staff Fall Kickoff Fri 9/16 9:00 a.m. Update with the Dean Sat 9/24 College of Education and Human Sciences Scholarship Receptions Thu 10/6 3:30 p.m. Brock Prize Symposium Fri 10/21 9:00 a.m. Update with the Dean Fri 11/18 9:00 a.m. Update with the Dean View All Events About the College People are at the core of all that we do in the College of Education and Human Sciences. With a commitment to diversity and inclusion, we empower lifelong learners and leaders who strengthen communities through education, health, human development and more. College of Education and Human Sciences Related Links: Aspire MagazineResearchOStateTV College News College of Education and Human Sciences 106 Nancy Randolph Davis Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 (map) (405) 744-5053 | Contact Us Follow us on social Facebook Twitter Instagram Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©