Academics Penn State among top 100 universities in the world in 2022 QS Rankings Penn State ranked No. 96 in the world in the recently released 2022 QS World University Rankings, placing the University among the top 8% worldwide among 1,300 ranked institutions. Credit: Patrick Mansell / Penn State. Creative CommonsExpand August 03, 2021 UNIVERSITY PARK, Pa. — Penn State ranked No. 96 in the world in the recently released 2022 QS World University Rankings, placing the University among the top 8% worldwide among 1,300 ranked institutions. Among public U.S. universities, Penn State came in at No. 9. Last year’s QS rankings placed Penn State at No. 101, among 1,185 included institutions. The QS rankings are considered one of the top three most-respected international university ranking systems, along with the rankings compiled by Times Higher Education, and the Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU), according to Rob Crane, associate vice provost for Global Programs at Penn State. U.S. universities have faced increased competition in international rankings as schools from East Asia and the Middle East have become world-class, said Crane. “Rising in the rankings is particularly gratifying, considering the increased level of competition since last year," he added. “The QS rankings prioritize research quality as an important part of QS’ rankings methodology, and Penn State faculty are cited often at the leading edge of an incredibly wide range of fields.” "Global University rankings are important to our international constituents, and provide international students and their parents a first impression of a university,” said William Shuey, assistant director of sponsored relations in Global Programs. “Penn State’s standing in the top 100 opens doors for international students in sponsored programs and sets the University apart from its peers around the world." According to the QS Quacquarelli Symonds website, the company is “the world’s leading provider of services, analytics and insight to the global higher education sector, whose mission is to enable motivated people anywhere in the world to fulfill their potential through educational achievement, international mobility, and career development.” For more information about Penn State’s international rankings, contact Shuey at wts5003@psu.edu. Last Updated October 28, 2021 Tags Academics Students Visitors and Neighbors Faculty and Staff Alumni University Park Rankings Global Programs Get the news by emailSubscribe