Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News Primary Navigation - New Wave News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Tactical Navigation - New Wave Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Public Relations Team: tel 504-865-5210, @tulanenews, pr@tulane.edu Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Study examines why the memory of fear is seared into our brains May 27, 2022 A team of Tulane neuroscientists have been studying the formation of fear memories in the emotional hub of the brain – the amygdala — and think they have a mechanism. Health Tulane study examines strategies to implement healthier meal options at Latin American restaurants May 18, 2022 Small restaurants that serve immigrant communities play a big role in dietary health in Latin American communities. But convincing owners to downsize portions, advertise calorie counts or adopt other strategies to provide healthier options on their menus may be a challenge, according to a new Tulane University study. Health, Research in Real Time, Science Team Fleur FemTech wins annual Novel Tech Challenge May 11, 2022 Team Fleur FemTech, four students from the School of Science and Engiineering, won the annual Novel Tech Challenge for their at-home test kit for detection of endometriosis. Health, Science Researcher awarded $2 million grant to study biology of “jumping genes” May 09, 2022 Dr. Jeffrey Han and his team aim to better understand how DNA damage caused by the transposon L1 causes infertility in a mouse model. A better understanding of the biology of L1 could also help researchers make connections to other diseases associated with transposon activity, including cancer. Culture, Health, Research in Real Time, Science Researchers study impact of college personality course on personality understanding April 28, 2022 Tulane researchers conducted a study that looked at the connection between students taking an introductory personality course and their dispositional intelligence. Culture, Health, Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane professor among international experts to produce landmark U.N. climate change report April 05, 2022 Tulane professor Jesse M. Keenan is among dozens of scholars and scientists involved in the writing and editing of a newly released United Nations report on the state of climate change. COVID-19, Culture, Health New book aims to prepare social work students for 21st century challenges March 23, 2022 The role of social workers in the pandemic is one of the topics that Joan Blakey, PhD, addresses in the 11th edition of her book Direct Social Work Practice: Theory and Skills. Culture, Event, Health, People, Science, World Tulane neuroscientist among women honored in Smithsonian’s If/Then exhibit March 17, 2022 This March the Smithsonian is adding to the excitement of Women’s History Month with the opening of “#IfThenSheCan – The Exhibit”, a collection of 120 life size 3D-printed statues honoring groundbreaking women in STEM. Elizabeth “Liz” Engler-Chiurazzi, Tulane assistant professor of neurosurgery at the Clinical Neuroscience Research Center at the School of Medicine, was chosen as one of the 120 If/Then ambassadors.This March the Smithsonian is adding to the excitement of Women’s History Month with the opening of “#IfThenSheCan – The Exhibit”, a collection of 120 life size 3D-printed statues honoring groundbreaking women in STEM. Elizabeth “Liz” Engler-Chiurazzi, Tulane assistant professor of neurosurgery at the Clinical Neuroscience Research Center at the School of Medicine, was chosen as one of the 120 If/Then ambassadors. Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science Tulane awarded $14 million NIH grant to study why heart disease, diabetes may blunt brain benefits of estrogen therapy March 04, 2022 The National Institutes of Health has awarded a $14.17 million grant to the Tulane University Brain Institute for a five-year study to understand why the brain-protecting benefits of estrogen don’t apply to all women, especially those with hypertension and Type 2 diabetes. COVID-19, Culture, Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science, World Tulane wins $2.27 million grant to combat burnout among health care workers March 04, 2022 The Tulane School of Social Work has been awarded a $2.27 million grant from the U.S. Health Resources and Services Administration to develop and implement a plan to address retention, burnout and overall wellbeing and resiliency of the health care workforce. Health, Science Researchers to study whether plants under stress are healthier to eat February 22, 2022 Matthew Burow and Dr. Bridgette Collins Burow, both professors at the School of Medicine, are working on a new collaboration with the U.S. Department of Agriculture to investigate whether plants under moderate stress produce compounds that can offer health benefits to those who eat those plants. Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time Tulane researchers create better model to predict heart risks for patients with kidney disease February 14, 2022 Tulane University researchers have developed a new method to help doctors better calculate the 10-year risk for stroke, heart attacks and other cardiovascular problems for patients with chronic kidney disease. COVID-19, Culture, Health, News Releases Irma Thomas gets animated about the importance of clinical trials February 02, 2022 The Soul Queen of New Orleans, Irma Thomas, is spreading the word about clinical trials in a new animated short co-produced by a Tulane community engagement initiative. COVID-19, Culture, Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time, Science, World Anxiety and alcohol misuse among pandemic-related mental health challenges Americans face February 02, 2022 Mental health issues continue to be a crucial concern as the pandemic enters a recovery phase, according to a Tulane study. Health, News Releases, Research in Real Time Tulane University awarded $1 million NIH grant to train medical residents for careers as physician scientists February 01, 2022 The National Institutes of Health has awarded Tulane University a $1 million grant to increase the number and diversity of physician scientists engaged in heart, lung and blood disease research. Pages 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 … next › last » Subscribe to Tulane Today Tulane Today Archive News Archive Submit Your News Submission Guidelines Tulane in the News On Good Authority Podcast Statements Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University