Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Business & Economy LaunchPad Startup OthersideAI Receives $2.6 Million in Seed Funding Monday, November 16, 2020, By Cristina Hatem Share Syracuse LaunchPad startup OthersideAI announced on Nov. 12 that it received $2.6 million in seed funding from Madrona Venture Group, and joined Active Capital, Hustle Fund, Chapter One and top angel investors in Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Software as a Service (SaaS). OthersideAI is led by Syracuse University students Matt Shumer ’22 and Miles Feldstein ’23 and alumnus Jason Kuperberg ’18, who met and created their venture at the Blackstone LaunchPad and Techstars at Syracuse University Libraries (LaunchPad). Matt Shumer ’22, Miles Feldstein ’23 and Jason Kuperberg ’18 OthersideAI is an email software platform, turning simple summaries into well-written emails in seconds, thus enabling users to save time managing their email correspondence. The team developed OthersideAI as part of the LaunchPad’s 2020 SummerStart Accelerator program. Since announcing the project mid-summer, the waitlist to onboard with OthersideAI has grown by thousands and has garnered accolades from AI experts around the world. Shumer, Feldstein and Kuperberg have been active members of the LaunchPad program for several years. The three co-founders have been participants in numerous campus and national competitions, including ‘Cuse Tank, Impact Prize, ACC InVenture Prize, iPrize, Hunter Brooks Watson Spirit of Entrepreneurship competition, Orange Tank and the Hult Prize. They currently mentor other LaunchPad teams and remain actively engaged in the program. “This wouldn’t have been possible without the Blackstone and Techstars LaunchPad network and Syracuse University’s LaunchPad,” says Shumer, who is CEO of the company. OthersideAI is one of the first commercial products built entirely on GPT-3, the powerful, general-purpose AI model from OpenAI, which delivers natural-language results for virtually any task. OthersideAI was one of the first companies to be granted access to the OpenAI API to help test and refine the technology and has been working closely with OpenAI to build to the safety standards of both entities. “Email is a crucial application for getting business done, communicating with friends and family, and where we, admittedly, spend many hours a day. However, unlike other applications, email hasn’t evolved in decades. OthersideAI changes that dynamic by helping users compose thoughtful emails with just a couple of bullet points and in their own personal style,” says Shumer. “The response we have had from our early users—and from those who have seen the demo—has been overwhelming and we are looking forward to rolling out OthersideAI more broadly in the coming months.” “We strongly believe that AI and natural language processing technologies such as GPT-3 will transform many aspects of our lives—from work to our health to leisure,” says Matt McIlwain, managing director of the Madrona Venture Group. “Since our first investment in commercially viable AI technology more than seven years ago, we have looked to back innovative founders like Matt, Miles and Jason, who are building solutions and products that will have significant impact. We are so excited to work with this team as they bring their first product to market.” Author Cristina Hatem Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Business & Economy Rabia Razzaq G’23 Wins 2022 Intelligence++ Inclusive Design Competition Rabia Razzaq G’23, a multidisciplinary designer and graduate student in the College of Visual and Performing Arts, won the 2022 Intelligence++ Showcase Competition, held in the Whitman School of Management on April 26. The interdisciplinary competition—which encourages design and business… Whitman School Receives STEM-Designation for Master’s in Professional Accounting Program The Martin J. Whitman School of Management’s master’s in professional accounting program has received STEM-designation. The class of 2022 will be the first to graduate with this new STEM certification. “We have made notable innovations to our master’s in professional… Whitman’s Full-Time MBA Program Achieves Highest U.S. News Ranking Since 1998 The Martin J. Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University is now ranked No. 57 in the nation for its full-time MBA program by U.S. News & World Report. This is the highest ranking for the Whitman School since 1998… Stocks and Finance Immersion Offers A&S | Maxwell Students a Window Into Finance When Jehan Muhialdain ’22 moved to the United States from Iraq five years ago, one of the major differences she noticed in her new country was the focus put on financial literacy and wealth management. She says living in Iraq,… Applications Open for RvD iPrize and Hunter Brooks Watson Spirit of Entrepreneurship Competitions The School of Information Studies (iSchool) with support from the Blackstone LaunchPad at Syracuse University Libraries (LaunchPad) are now accepting applications through March 15 for the Raymond von Dran (RvD) iPrize pitch competition and the Hunter Brooks Watson Spirit of… Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.