Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Harvard Athletics opens the vault to sports highlights The rhythmatist Campus & Community Harvard Athletics opens the vault to sports highlights Campus & Community Harvard Athletics opens the vault to sports highlights Credit: Video Vault Video Vault platform lets fans relive the historic moments on demand By Juan Siliezar Harvard Staff Writer DateMay 13, 2021 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Trending Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Harvard to award seven honorary degrees Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers Whether it’s watching Bobby Kennedy score a touchdown in 1947 or the 1990s NCAA championship win for the women’s lacrosse team, the launch of the new Harvard Athletics Video Vault makes it possible for sports fans to relive some of the University’s most historic sporting moments. “We have so many exciting and memorable games that have been sitting in cold storage, with no one able to watch them or enjoy them,” said Imry Halevi, assistant director of athletics and director of multimedia and production. “Our goal is to open up our history to our alumni and fans. Allow them to enjoy this amazing content, from the 1920s through the 2010s.” “[It’s a way for alumni to] watch games that they competed in, or games that their parents or grandparents were part of,” Halevi added. “They want to remember the good times they had with their teammates and the memorable four years they spent on the Harvard campus.” Currently, more than 30 of Harvard’s teams are represented on the platform. Additional historical content will be added every week to the subscription-based platform. The oldest footage is a football game between Harvard and Dartmouth, which Harvard lost 30-6. Other games of note include the men’s ice hockey team winning the National Championship in 1989 and the women’s soccer beating Columbia in 2016 to win the Ivy League title. “That’s what we hope people will find in the Vault — memories,” Halevi said. Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Trending Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Harvard to award seven honorary degrees Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers Up Next Campus & Community The rhythmatist Campus & Community The rhythmatist Rajna Swaminathan, Ph.D. ’21, has been described by Professor Vijay Iyer as “a groundbreaking 21st-century composer-performer and thinker.” Photo by Tony Rinaldo