Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program McCabe Smith Named Vice Provost facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: equity Apr 22, 2022 Research Through an Equitable Lens Recognizing the importance of a fair and just society, researchers at NC State prioritize equity in their diverse fields. Jun 24, 2019 NYC Park Study Compares Crime Reports, Kids’ Park Use Community health researchers saw fewer elementary-age kids, particularly girls, in New York City public parks following crime reports. Oct 14, 2016 Navigating the Road Ahead Diversity Education Week is an opportunity NC State to re-examine the progress we've made on issues of equity and diversity — and to redouble our efforts. Aug 23, 2016 A Matter of Respect Nearly 100 events take place during Wolfpack Welcome Week, but few carry the weight of Respect The Pack. Participants in the annual event come together to share a message of diversity and inclusivity that organizers hope will resonate with the campus community. May 10, 2016 McCabe Smith Named Vice Provost Linda McCabe Smith, associate chancellor for institutional diversity at Southern Illinois University Carbondale, has been named vice provost for institutional equity and diversity at NC State, effective Aug. 1. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.