Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Staff, faculty win SUNY Chancellor’s Awards for Excellence By Laura Gallup May 12, 2022 Sixteen faculty and professional staff members in four of Cornell’s state contract colleges have been selected for the 2021-22 State University of New York (SUNY) Chancellor’s Awards for Excellence. This year, all nominees put forth by Cornell won awards. The honor recognizes faculty and staff at SUNY colleges who demonstrate a commitment to intellectual vibrancy, advancing the boundaries of knowledge, providing the highest quality of instruction and serving the public good. Honorees for teaching are: Daniel Buckley, professor, School of Integrative Plant Science Soil and Crop Sciences Section, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences (CALS); Terry Tucker, Ph.D. ’98, professor of the practice, Department of Global Development, CALS; Huiju Park, associate professor, Department of Human Centered Design, College of Human Ecology (CHE); Emily Zitek, associate professor of organizational behavior, School of Industrial and Labor Relations (ILR); and Marnie FitzMaurice, senior lecturer, Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine (CVM). Honorees for scholarship and creative activities are: Minglin Ma, associate professor, Department of Biological and Environmental Engineering, CALS; Qi Wang, professor of human development, Department of Psychology, CHE; David Matteson, associate department chair and associate professor, Department of Statistics and Data Science, Cornell Ann S. Bowers College of Computing and Information Science, and Department of Social Statistics, ILR; and Yrjö Gröhn, the James Law Professor of Epidemiology, Department of Population Medicine and Diagnostic Sciencs, CVM. Honorees for professional service are: Jennifer Majka, director of diversity and inclusion, Charles H. Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management, CALS; Michelle Lyon, director of budget and finance, CHE; and Scott Ross, M.I.L.R. ’13, assistant director of application development and integration, CVM. Honorees for faculty service are: Corinna Loeckenhoff, professor of human development, CHE, and associate professor of gerontology in medicine, Weill Cornell Medicine; and Gillian Perkins, clinical professor, Department of Clinical Sciences, associate director of the Cornell University Hospital for Animals, CVM. Honorees for classified service are: Craig Cramer, communications specialist, CALS; Mike Miller, information technology support assistant, CHE; and Darrie O’Connell, graduate recruiting and outreach coordinator, ILR. News & Events Staff News Media Inquiries Media Contact Jeffrey Martin jkm243@cornell.edu (607) 882-4418 Get Cornell news delivered right to your inbox. Subscribe You might also like Five students receive SUNY Chancellor’s Awards HBO to shadow Cornell student birders Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON