Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community Syracuse University, JMA Wireless Announce Naming Rights Partnership, Usher in the JMA Wireless Dome Era Thursday, May 19, 2022, By News Staff Share athleticsDomeJMA Wirelessstadium Syracuse University and JMA Wireless (JMA) today announced a 10-year partnership for naming rights of the University’s iconic on-campus stadium. For the first time since the venue opened its doors in 1980, the stadium will have a new name, only the second in its history—the JMA Wireless Dome, referred to as the JMA Dome. The two Central New York organizations, which together employ more than 6,500 people locally, also announced that Syracuse-based JMA will support the Dome’s digital infrastructure transformation by establishing the most advanced connectivity offerings for fans and other users while at the Dome. Syracuse University and JMA Wireless announced a 10-year partnership for naming rights of the University’s iconic on-campus stadium. “This is an exciting moment for Syracuse University, Syracuse Athletics and the broader Central New York community,” says Chancellor Kent Syverud. “With JMA Wireless as our new naming partner, our campus community, student-athletes and fans alike can expect a world-class event experience, unlike anything they’ve ever seen before at Syracuse University. I am grateful to JMA Founder and CEO John Mezzalingua for his partnership and vision. His investment in the City of Syracuse and Central New York will pay dividends for years to come in the form of economic vitality, career opportunities for local residents and cutting-edge technology innovation taking place in our region. We share JMA’s commitment to the City of Syracuse and Central New York and look forward to seeing the positive impact our partnership will have on our local community.” JMA, a global leader in 5G wireless technology, continues to experience tremendous growth and was recently tapped to provide the 5G equipment for the SoFi Stadium, the state-of-the-art stadium located in Inglewood, California, that hosted Super Bowl LVI in 2022. The 10-year-old company is expanding its presence with the opening of its new 5G campus in the City of Syracuse, located at the former Coyne Textile building on Cortland Avenue in the city’s South Side. Mezzalingua, a native of Central New York, is proud of the role his company will play in transforming the stadium experience for the Orange community. “Today marks the beginning of a new era for the Dome, Syracuse University and JMA,” says Mezzalingua. “Our company’s ties to the city and University run deep. I remember when Syracuse redefined college athletics with the Dome, a unique venue that ushered in a period of unprecedented success for Syracuse sports. With this partnership, we have an opportunity to lead once again. The Dome will have the most advanced 5G network of any collegiate stadium, connecting fans as never before. It will also enable powerful new augmented reality training systems, advanced coaching tools and sensor-based performance optimization to attract elite athletes and help Syracuse win. The JMA Dome has an incredibly bright future ahead, and we are thrilled to be a part of it.” In April, Syracuse University announced that after a 40-year partnership, Carrier and the University came to an agreement to allow Syracuse to rename its stadium. Carrier’s historic 1979 gift represented the first naming agreement for a major college sports stadium and one of the first in all of sports. Also in April, the University announced it would embark on the next phase of its work to enhance, elevate and expand the stadium experience. This latest phase of renovations will build on the recently completed $118 million transformation of the Dome, funded entirely by the University and private philanthropy. These renovations, which included a new fixed roof, a vertically hung scoreboard—the largest in college sports, the installation of air conditioning and state-of-the-art sound and lighting systems, have improved the visitor experience and further positioned the venue and Central New York to compete nationally for large concerts, events and NCAA regional competitions. John Wildhack, director of athletics, says the Dome, the only collegiate sports venue in the country that hosts five athletic programs, will benefit tremendously from JMA’s involvement. Wildhack is especially pleased that fans will experience an elevated in-game experience. “Our fans have unmatched passion for all things Orange and they want to show that by sharing their experiences in real-time across their social media channels. They also want to be able to check the scores of other games, text their fellow fans and scroll through relevant content. This can be seamlessly achieved with access to 5G capabilities and the multimedia services that will be available under the Dome roof,” says Wildhack. “Not only does this add to the excitement of participating in sporting events, being at the forefront of athletics in this way helps us attract and recruit the finest scholar-athletes because it shows our commitment to the short- and long-term success of our program.” In addition to upgrading the entire digital infrastructure, the next phase of renovations includes a complete reseating of the entire venue and the construction of an on-site and publicly accessible event facility. “I’ve been here since the Dome was first envisioned and conceived, and never have I been so excited for what the future holds,” says Pete Sala, vice president and chief campus facilities officer. “With JMA Wireless’ support and with our other renovation partners, the legacy of the unique and special nature of the Dome is cemented forever.” For more than 40 years, the Dome has served as a catalyst for economic activity benefiting the City of Syracuse, Onondaga County and the broader Central New York region. Each year, more than 935,000 visitors attend events at the Dome, including concerts, college and professional athletic competitions, and family entertainment. The Dome, a year-round venue, also hosts local and statewide high school sports events, band competitions, and other community-focused activities. Dome events and operations contribute more than $240 million in income to the Central New York economy and support more than 5,000 local jobs. As the University previously announced, as part of the upcoming renovations, Syracuse University will take additional action to further spur economic activity in Central New York and support area residents and communities. These include donating the removed bench seating, introducing a local apprenticeship program and providing cost-free use of the facility for emergency services training. About Syracuse University Syracuse University is a private research university that advances knowledge across disciplines to drive breakthrough discoveries and breakout leadership. Our collection of 13 schools and colleges with over 200 customizable majors closes the gap between education and action, so students can take on the world. In and beyond the classroom, we connect people, perspectives and practices to solve interconnected challenges with interdisciplinary approaches. Together, we’re a powerful community that moves ideas, individuals and impact beyond what’s possible. About JMA Wireless A disruptive force in the wireless industry, JMA is restoring U.S. leadership in network technology at a critical time in the transition to 5G. With its global headquarters in Syracuse, New York, JMA makes the world’s most advanced software-based 5G platform, which it designs, codes and manufactures in the United States. JMA’s technology—most notably a revolutionary software solution called XRAN—is ushering in a new era of innovation and connectivity for businesses, workers and consumers. For more information, visit jmawireless.com. Author News Staff Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.