Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: STEM Preserving Aquatic Ecosystems, One Lake at a Time Thursday, April 21, 2022, By Daryl Lovell Share Climate ScienceCollege of Engieering and Computer ScienceEarth DayenvironmentWater Svetoslava Todorova is passionate about her work with aquatic ecosystems. For years, she’s been bringing small groups of her Syracuse University students to Green Lakes State Park, equipped with gear to measure the make-up of the lake and armed with their natural curiosity about the environment. Despite not knowing how to swim herself, she encourages her students to get as hands-on as possible, telling them not to fear the water. “I’ve always been concerned about the environment and pollution. I realized that water—being one of the most essential resources—would be the most important one to take care of,” Todorova says. Professor Todorova’s class is collecting water samples at Green Lakes State Park. Taking care of water systems and finding ways to fight mercury contamination has become the life work of Todorova. As a professor of practice in the civil and environmental engineering department in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, she is most proud of her theoretical and experimental work mitigating mercury contamination in lake sediment. “Mercury is everywhere. It’s in the Earth’s crust, and that’s why it’s found in air, it’s found in water, it’s found in soil. However, when it exceeds certain levels, or there are conditions that are conducive to the transfer of mercury to its organic form, that’s when we have a concern about mercury contamination,” Todorova says. Mercury is very easy to ingest, but harder to get out of the body. Especially methyl mercury, which is a very poisonous form of the element. Being at the top of the food chain, humans are usually exposed to mercury through fish and meat consumption. Through her research, she discovered aquatic mercury contamination can be mitigated by utilizing nitrate environments, which decreases aquatic life’s exposure to mercury. She even played a key role in the development of the Minamata Convention on Mercury, an international agreement that addresses human activity that leads to widespread mercury contamination. “The big issue is the transfer of mercury from soil or its aquatic ecosystems into the food web,” Todorova says. “This is how it’s exposed to humans and wildlife.” Calling her work a drop in the big ocean, Professor Todorova hopes her research contributes to the overall global mission to protect and improve aquatic systems. “I don’t think I’m doing anything great, but I’m contributing to the whole knowledge that we all need to be able to take care of the Earth,” Todorova says. Author Daryl Lovell Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In STEM Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program “When am I ever going to use this in real life?” That is the oft-heard refrain from middle- and high-school science students, struggling through labs and formulas that feel as far removed from their day-to-day as, well, space travel. Sarthak… Bringing ‘CSI’ Into the Classroom Dusting for fingerprints, documenting blood stain patterns and measuring bullet trajectory—you might think this is a description of a recent episode from the popular television series “CSI.” While this may be true, these are also the daily lessons students are… Matt Cufari Named as a 2022-23 Astronaut Scholar Matt Cufari, a senior physics major in the College of Arts and Sciences (A&S), a computer science major in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, a Coronat Scholar and a member of the Renée Crown University Honors Program, has… Dean Rajiv ‘Raj’ Dewan to Step Down as Dean of the School of Information Studies Rajiv “Raj” Dewan, dean of the School of Information Studies, has announced he will conclude his deanship on June 30, 2022. Dewan plans to return to full-time faculty duties while continuing his research. David Seaman, dean of Syracuse University Libraries… Biology and Earth and Environmental Sciences Departments Come Together on Diversity and Engagement Initiatives In 1948, Professor James Hope Birnie became Syracuse University’s first African American faculty member in biology, teaching here until 1951. He was also one of its first biology faculty members to be supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIH)…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.