Skip To Content Skip To Navigation Skip To Search University of Notre Dame Notre Dame News Latest News Experts ND in the News Subscribe About Us Home Contact Search Menu Home › ND in the News ND in the News Archive The Guardian Trump’s ‘big lie’ hits cinemas: the film claiming to investigate voter fraud May 29, 2022 Aaron Striegel, a professor of computer science and engineering at the University of Notre Dame, told the Associated Press: “You could use cellular evidence to say this person was in that area, but to say they were at the ballot box, you’re stretching it a lot. There’s always a pretty healthy amount of uncertainty that comes with this.” USA Today Americans' erratic relationship with religion will be tested again after abortion ruling, experts say May 29, 2022 A large reason for the increase of religiously unaffiliated Americans is the rising role of religion in politics, primarily within the Republican Party, according to Geoff Layman, the chair of the department of political science at the University of Notre Dame. ND Experts Geoffrey Layman Department of Political Science USA Today Abortion brawl draws Ruth Bader Ginsburg's legacy on Roe v. Wade into the spotlight May 27, 2022 "I think that the equal protection arguments that you see developed in scholarship wouldn't get off the ground," said Sherif Girgis, a former Alito clerk and professor at Notre Dame Law School. NPR Javelin missiles are in short supply and restocking them won't be easy May 27, 2022 Notre Dame professor Eugene Gholz says it's one of almost two dozen Army-run plants across the country that make and refurbish military hardware. ND Experts Charles Gholz Political Science MarketWatch The Real Reason Biden Won’t be Able to Fix the Baby Formula Crisis May 26, 2022 Though it has existed since the late 19th century, most parents who chose not to breast-feed fed their babies condensed milk, rather than infant formula, into the 1960s, according to a paper written for the USDA by a University of Notre Dame professor, David Betson. The Economist A divided Colombia is poised to elect its first leftist president May 26, 2022 Just 4% of the land-reform measures mandated in the accord have been put in place since it was signed, according to the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame in Indiana. The Christian Science Monitor When does atrocity rise to the level of genocide? May 25, 2022 “The question is, do the Russians intend to destroy Ukrainian identity as a national group, which would qualify under genocide law?” says Ernesto Verdeja, who teaches political science and peace studies at the University of Notre Dame in Indiana. ND Experts Ernesto Verdeja Political Science Scientific American Florida Lab to Mimic Category 6 Hurricanes with 200-Mile-per-Hour Wind May 25, 2022 The facility will host scientists not just from FIU but also from eight other research institutions: the University of Florida; Georgia Tech; Oregon State University; Stanford University; the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign; the University of Notre Dame; Colorado State University; and Wayne State University. Associated Press Russian sentenced to life in Ukraine's 1st war crimes trial May 23, 2022 Mary Ellen O’Connell, an expert on international law at the University of Notre Dame, said that putting Shishimarin on trial could prove “extremely detrimental to Ukrainian soldiers in the hands of Russia.” ND Experts Mary Ellen O'Connell Notre Dame Law School CBS News Starbucks joins McDonald's in exiting Russia May 23, 2022 "This was the very best of a series of difficult choices," James O'Rourke, professor of management at the University of Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business, said in an email. ND Experts James O'Rourke Mendoza College of Business Business Insider One billionaire was minted every 30 hours during the pandemic. Now, a million people may fall into extreme poverty every 33 hours, Oxfam estimates. May 23, 2022 In January 2021, 8.1 million Americans entered into poverty, Insider's Ayelet Sheffey reported, citing a study by the University of Chicago and University of Notre Dame economists. Crux Catholic college graduates praised for pandemic resilience May 22, 2022 When he was announced at Notre Dame, more than 3,300 graduates rose and waved Ukrainian flags in a show of solidarity with a nation under siege. Gudziak, who also is the head of external relations for the worldwide Ukrainian Catholic Church, said the university “has offered a singular response to the Russian invasion and devastation of Ukraine.” National Catholic Reporter At 2022 commencement ceremonies, an ecological theme for several Catholic colleges May 21, 2022 Graduates at the University of Notre Dame also heard remarks from Sharon Lavigne, a Catholic environmental justice advocate and recipient of the school's 2022 Laetare Medal. New York Magazine Black Lives Matter’s National Organization Opens Its Books. What Do They Reveal? May 20, 2022 “My impression is that they’re trying to clean up the transparency and accountability problems they’ve had, but they still have a lot of work to do,” Lloyd Hitoshi Mayer, a professor at the University of Notre Dame Law School who specializes in nonprofits, said after reviewing the document. ND Experts Lloyd Mayer Notre Dame Law School The Economist The price of friendship: China has much to offer African governments, but it also wants much in return May 20, 2022 Joshua Eisenman of the University of Notre Dame found that, in Ghana, the department had courted the New Patriotic Party (npp) even when it was out of government. CNN Deal or no deal, Elon Musk could upend Twitter’s business for a long time May 19, 2022 “The places which are just cesspools of no content moderation have not taken off,” said Kirsten Martin, a professor of technology ethics at the University of Notre Dame. Thus, there could be conflict between Musk’s stated goal to grow Twitter’s business and his plans for how to handle content moderation. ND Experts Kirsten Martin Mendoza College of Business National Catholic Reporter A Ukrainian academic on sabbatical experiences solidarity at Notre Dame May 17, 2022 Since January, I have been at the University of Notre Dame for my research project. What distinguishes Notre Dame in the present context is its long friendship with Ukraine. Inside Higher Ed New Presidents or Provosts: Fitchburg State U, Hampton U, Holy Cross College, Spartanburg Methodist College, Tennessee College of Applied Technology Morristown, U of Arkansas CC Batesville, U of Maryland Eastern Shore, U of Notre Dame, Vermont Law School May 17, 2022 John T. McGreevy, Francis A. McAnaney Professor of History and former dean of the College of Arts and Letters at the University of Notre Dame, has been appointed Charles and Jill Fischer Provost there. ND Experts John McGreevy History The New York Times After Raising $90 Million in 2020, Black Lives Matter Has $42 Million in Assets May 17, 2022 “I think they are doing what a lawyer in this situation would advise them to do, which is be as open as you possibly can be and be as accurate as you possibly can be,” said Lloyd Hitoshi Mayer, a law professor at the University of Notre Dame who specializes in nonprofits. ND Experts Lloyd Mayer Notre Dame Law School Religion News Service With Roe in peril, abortion rights advocates prepare appeals to religious liberty May 17, 2022 Richard Garnett, director of Notre Dame University’s Program on Church, State and Society, expressed skepticism that religious freedom challenges to abortion restrictions could prevail. ND Experts Richard Garnett Notre Dame Law School CBS News McDonald's selling its Russian business May 16, 2022 "This was the very best of a series of difficult choices," James O'Rourke, professor of management at the University of Notre Dame's Mendoza College of Business, said in an email. ND Experts James O'Rourke Mendoza College of Business Yahoo Big tech is fighting a new Texas law targeting social media — here's what happens next May 16, 2022 “Even though there's been an increase in [use of the docket] the last few years, it is still relatively unusual for the Supreme Court to stay or vacate a stay of a lower court decision,” University of Notre Dame law professor Samuel Bray explains. CNN If Elon Musk restores Trump’s Twitter account, it could pave the way for other platforms to do the same May 13, 2022 Although far from perfect, Twitter has, at least historically, been viewed as “more nuanced in their content moderation” and as “trying to do the right thing more often than other platforms,” said Kristin Martin, professor of technology ethics at the University of Notre Dame. ND Experts Kirsten Martin Mendoza College of Business Associated Press Some Catholic abortion foes are uneasy about overturning Roe May 13, 2022 Professor O. Carter Snead, who teaches law and political science at the University of Notre Dame, said via email that most Catholics engaging in anti-abortion activism “are not hard political partisans but rather people seeking to care for moms and babies by whatever means are available.” ND Experts Carter Snead Notre Dame Law School The New York Times What does the 'post-liberal right' actually want? May 13, 2022 This is a conversation about what Patrick Deneen’s “postliberal” political project looks like — and the tensions and contradictions it reveals about the modern populist right. Associated Press Catholic cardinal, others arrested on Hong Kong security law May 12, 2022 Zen’s arrest marks “the darkest day to date in the Chinese Communist Party’s incremental destruction of the vitality of Hong Kong and is likely to provoke a reconsideration by the Vatican of its several-year long diplomatic engagement with Beijing over the ordination of bishops,” said Lionel Jensen, associate professor of East Asian languages and cultures at the University of Notre Dame, who helped welcome Zen to the U.S. school in 2019. ND Experts Lionel Jensen East Asian Languages and Cultures, History Associated Press Justices to meet for 1st time since leak of draft Roe ruling May 12, 2022 Sherif Gergis, a University of Notre Dame law professor who once was a law clerk for Alito, agreed. “I’ll be surprised if it changes very much,” Gergis said. The Washington Post Hong Kong arrests 90-year-old cardinal on foreign collusion charges May 11, 2022 Lionel Jensen, an associate professor of East Asian languages and cultures at the University of Notre Dame, said Zen’s arrest “sounds the death knell of Hong Kong.” ND Experts Lionel Jensen East Asian Languages and Cultures, History Associated Press Running Twitter may be much harder than Elon Musk thinks May 11, 2022 “If Musk is concerned that many people were upset that Trump was banned, he should see how many more people would be upset if Trump was not banned,” said Kirsten Martin, a professor of technology ethics at the University of Notre Dame. ND Experts Kirsten Martin Mendoza College of Business The Guardian Reversing Trump Twitter ban will provoke user backlash, Elon Musk warned May 11, 2022 Kirsten Martin, a professor of technology ethics at the University of Notre Dame in Chicago, said Musk would face a backlash if he reinstated Trump’s account. “If Musk is concerned that many people were upset that Trump was banned, he should see how many more people would be upset if Trump was not banned,” she said. “Musk only appears to be worried about the opinion of a small group of individuals who incite violence or perpetuate hate speech.” ND Experts Kirsten Martin Mendoza College of Business Archive Home Latest News Experts ND in the News Subscribe About Us For the Media Contact Office of Public Affairs and Communications Notre Dame News 500 Grace Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556 USA Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube Pinterest © 2022 University of Notre Dame Search Mobile App News Events Visit Accessibility Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn