Skip to main content Search Close Search Search this site Search Search News and Media All of Oklahoma State University Go back to top of page Oklahoma State University Headlines News and Media Main Menu In this section News News Archive Topics College News In the Media Magazines Experts Directory Submit News Contact Us Home Articles OSU Vet Med Hosts Primary Care Symposium Forty representatives from 28 institutions gathered at the ConocoPhillips OSU Alumni Center on the OSU-Stillwater campus for the Primary Care Veterinary Educators' symposium. OSU Vet Med Hosts Primary Care Symposium Wednesday, May 4, 2022 Media Contact: Kaylie Wehr | College of Veterinary Medicine | 405-744-6740 | kaylie.wehr@okstate.edu Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest The Oklahoma State University College of Veterinary Medicine hosted the Primary Care Veterinary Educators’ Symposium on April 20-23. The PCVE Symposium is an annual meeting organized by the Primary Care Veterinary Educators, a working group of the American Association of Veterinary Medical Colleges. Representatives from each AAVMC member institution are invited to gather with the purpose of “exploring and sharing best practices in an area of academic veterinary medicine that helps faculty members best prepare students for clinical veterinary practice.” Forty representatives from 28 institutions gathered at the ConocoPhillips OSU Alumni Center on the OSU-Stillwater campus for the symposium. Dr. Paul DeMars, clinical associate professor in the Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences, represented OSU. “The Primary Care Educators Symposium is an excellent forum for all of us in academia to share ideas about training new veterinarians,” DeMars said. “Primary care services in a teaching hospital are a bit of an oddball, as we are trying to get the students to focus on everyday problems in a world of specialists.” According to the AAVMC website, the Primary Care Veterinary Educators group is focused on helping improve instructional practices in veterinary medical clinical education. “The subjects we focus on at the symposium are more about education and coaching,” DeMars said. “We hope that attendees can return to their programs with new tools to help their students become better veterinarians. This year, we covered mentorship and resilience, as well as spending some time brainstorming problems like time management and evaluations.” The symposium was sponsored by Boehringer Ingelheim, Hill’s Pet Nutrition and Idexx Laboratories. Share Facebook Twitter Pinterest Animal Health and SciencesCollege of Veterinary Medicine Back To Top Back To Top Oklahoma State University Stillwater, OK 74078 Campus & Parking Maps (405) 744-5000 Careers at OSU Hire OSU Grads OSU Institutions Stillwater (Main) Oklahoma City Tulsa Center for Health Sciences (Tulsa) Institute of Technology (Okmulgee) Veterinary Medicine (Stillwater) Follow OSU NewsEventsInside OSU Social Media Directory Facebook Twitter Instagram Linkedin Snapchat OSU Athletics >> © Oklahoma State University. All rights reserved. AccessibilityCampus SafetyDiversityEEO StatementEthics PointPrivacy NoticeTerms of ServiceTrademarks SVG directory not found. MENUCLOSE ©