Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Media Coverage Media Tip Sheets PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette June is PTSD Awareness Month and it serves as yet another reminder of the mental health struggles many veterans face each and every day – often times without any support, according to this recent Op-Ed in Newsweek written by John… CNY Central “Syracuse University to rename the Carrier Dome – what name would fans choose?” Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Lily Datz Beth Egan, associate professor of advertising in the Newhouse School, was quoted in the CNY Central story “Syracuse University to rename the Carrier Dome – what name would fans choose?” Egan, who specializes in strategic communications and advertising, discussed why… Media Tip Sheets Vice Admiral responds to Biden’s trip to Asia Tuesday, May 24, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette If you are looking for an expert in military and intelligence issues, please see comments from retired Vice Admiral Robert Murrett regarding President Biden’s trip to Asia and the mention of the “United States would intervene militarily if China attempts to… Media Tip Sheets Media Tip Sheet: Consequences of China Lockdown Thursday, May 19, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette As the intense lockdowns continue in China, one of our Syracuse University professors weighed in on possible consequences they may have on the economy. Dimitar Gueorguiev is an associate professor of political science at the Maxwell School of Citizenship and… STEM Black Hole Image Shows Einstein Was Right, Once Again Thursday, May 12, 2022, By Daryl Lovell Today a team of astronomers announced they successfully captured the first direct image of the black hole at the center of the Milky Way galaxy. Duncan Brown is the Charles Brightman Endowed Professor of Physics at Syracuse University’s College of… Media Tip Sheets Architecture Expert and Researcher of Abortion Clinics On the Future of Access Tuesday, May 10, 2022, By Ellen Mbuqe Last week, a draft decision for Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization was leaked from the Supreme Court and shows that five justices are preparing a judgment that would strike down Roe v. Wade. For reporters covering this ongoing story,… Media Tip Sheets “Inclusion Should Not Be an Afterthought”: Education and Legal Experts Weigh In on Plan to Update Federal Regulations Tuesday, May 10, 2022, By Christopher Munoz For the first time in 45 years, the U.S. Education Department is planning to update federal mandates for how schools and colleges must accommodate students with disabilities. The department is soliciting public comments about how current regulations can be improved… Media Tip Sheets Response to Putin’s Speech Monday, May 9, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette As we heard earlier today, Russian President Vladimir Putin said he had no choice but to invade Ukraine in his Victory Day speech (CNN). Syracuse University’s Mark Jacobson has responded to this speech (see below). Jacobson is the assistant dean of Washington programs… Media Tip Sheets Leaks at the Supreme Court, what really matters? The leak or the decision? Friday, May 6, 2022, By Ellen Mbuqe This week, Supreme Court Chief Justice John Roberts ordered an investigation on how a draft decision of Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization was leaked to Politico. This leak shows that five justices are preparing a judgment that would strike down… Diet Soap Media Podcast “Can the Working Class End PMC Environmentalism?” Thursday, May 5, 2022, By Lily Datz Matthew Huber, professor of geography and the environment in the Maxwell School, was interviewed for the Diet Soap Media Podcast episode “Can the Working Class End PMC Environmentalism?” Huber, who studies climate politics, discussed his new book that unpacks the failures… 12345 Featured Media Coverage Architecture Expert and Researcher of Abortion Clinics On the Future of Access Tuesday, May 10, 2022, By Ellen Mbuqe “Elon Musk bought Twitter. What’s next?” Tuesday, April 26, 2022, By Lily Datz “Inclusion Should Not Be an Afterthought”: Education and Legal Experts Weigh In on Plan to Update Federal Regulations Tuesday, May 10, 2022, By Christopher Munoz Former UN Special Prosecutor for International War Crimes Tribunal Releases New Report on War Crimes in Ukraine Monday, April 11, 2022, By Ellen Mbuqe 6 Climate Takeaways for Earth Day 2022 Thursday, April 14, 2022, By Daryl Lovell Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Facebook @SyracuseUNews Youtube Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.