UT Wordmark Primary UT Wordmark Formal Shield Texas UT News Camera Chevron Close Search Copy Link Download File Hamburger Menu Time Stamp Open in browser Load More Pull quote Cloudy and windy Cloudy Partly Cloudy Rain and snow Rain Showers Snow Sunny Thunderstorms Wind and Rain Windy Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter email alert map calendar bullhorn Skip to content ↓ Information and resources related to COVID-19 Protect Texas Together Close Banner The University of Texas at Austin May 31, 2022 UT News Navigation Search Close Navigation UT News News Opinions Series UT Stories: COVID-19 What Starts Here Campaign Stories UT Research Science & Technology Health & Wellness Arts & Humanities Education & Leadership Business & Economy Campus & Community Policy & Law For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Experts Guide Pitch Form Archive UT Austin on Twitter UT Austin on Instagram UT Austin on Facebook UT Austin on LinkedIn Search for content on UT News Search Button Science & Technology Oct 04, 2018 Prestigious MacArthur Foundation Fellows Include UT Austin’s Inventor of ‘Cancer Pen’ Livia Schiavinato Eberlin, inventor of the cancer detecting MasSpec Pen has won a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, sometimes called a “genius” award. Wyatt McSpadden/University of Texas at Austin AUSTIN, Texas — Livia Schiavinato Eberlin, an assistant professor of chemistry at The University of Texas at Austin, has won a MacArthur Foundation Fellowship, sometimes called a “genius” award. The prestigious, no-strings-attached five-year fellowship awards $625,000 to each recipient. “I feel extremely honored and humbled because this is a very special fellowship that recognizes people for their talent and creativity, not for a specific project or their past work,” Eberlin said. “They trust your work has and will continue to impact society and I am so thankful for that.” Each year, the MacArthur Foundation selects talented individuals who have shown exceptional originality in and dedication to their creative pursuits. “Dr. Eberlin’s research places her at the vanguard of a worldwide effort to fight cancer,” said Gregory Fenves, President of UT Austin. “Her brilliant research has resulted in new technology that can lead to more accurate diagnoses and more effective treatment for patients. As a young scientist, Dr. Eberlin has already accomplished much, and we look forward to more discoveries in her future. It’s truly an honor to have her as a member of the UT faculty.” Listen to an interview with Eberlin on the “Point of Discovery” Podcast Eberlin is developing new ways to identify cancerous tissue to improve outcomes for patients using a chemical analysis method called mass spectrometry. One tool she has developed, called the MasSpec Pen, enables a surgeon to rapidly differentiate cancerous tissue from healthy tissue directly in patients in a surgical setting, which might help them decide what to remove and what to leave intact. It can also be used on tissue samples taken from a patient to help clinicians diagnose disease and choose the most effective treatment option for an individual. Significant funding for the project comes from the Cancer Prevention Research Institute of Texas. “From early in her career, Dr. Eberlin has inspired a great many people through her ability to apply cutting-edge scientific thinking to real-world challenges, including explorations of safer, more effective treatment for cancer,” said Paul Goldbart, dean of the College of Natural Sciences. “We are tremendously proud of her and of the ways in which she demonstrates our campus motto: ‘What starts here changes the world.’ ” To enable such diagnoses, she is also discovering biomarkers associated with different types of cancers. Her team has applied mass spectrometry imaging to identify biomarkers, including those produced by hard-to-treat cancers such as oncocyctic thyroid tumors and ovarian high-grade serous carcinoma. Using machine learning, they have discovered unique fingerprints for these types of cancers. By comparing the chemical patterns produced by tissues in new patients to these fingerprints, her tools may provide clinicians the information they need to make better treatment choices. Eberlin received a B.S. (2007) from the Universidade Estadual de Campinas in Brazil and a Ph.D. (2012) from Purdue University. She was a postdoctoral fellow at Stanford University from 2012 to 2015, and in 2016 she joined the faculty of The University of Texas at Austin. Among her numerous awards, Eberlin was cited on the “30 under 30” list by Forbes magazine, she was named a “Science Super Hero” by the Discovery Channel, and she received the L’Oréal USA For Women in Science Fellowship. The MasSpec Pen won an Interactive Innovation Award at this year’s South by Southwest Conference. A fictional cancer-detecting pen based on the MasSpec Pen was featured earlier this year on the ABC show “Grey’s Anatomy,” with Eberlin consulting writers on how the device works. Eberlin is the first UT Austin faculty member to receive a MacArthur fellowship this century. Seven other UT Austin faculty members were previously awarded MacArthur Foundation fellowships: Jacqueline Jones, (History, 1999) David Hillis (Integrative Biology, 1999), Nancy Moran (Integrative Biology, 1997), Nora C. England (Linguistics, 1993), Philip Uri Treisman (Mathematics, 1992), Thomas G. Palaima (Classics, 1985) and Karen K. Uhlenbeck (Mathematics, 1983). The MacArthur Fellows Program is intended to encourage people of outstanding talent to pursue their creative, intellectual and professional inclinations. In keeping with this purpose, the foundation awards fellowships directly to individuals rather than through institutions. Recipients may be writers, scientists, artists, social scientists, humanists, teachers, entrepreneurs, or those in other fields, with or without institutional affiliations. They may use their fellowships to advance their expertise, engage in bold new work, or, if they wish, to change fields or alter the direction of their careers. Note to reporters: Photos and a video of Eberlin, examples of the MasSpec pen in action and other multimedia assets are available at: https://utexas.app.box.com/s/lwt6p1fyucjrb0oc2il83y5islhjk9av Copy link Email Share Link Twitter Share Link Facebook Share Link LinkedIn Share Link Tags: College of Natural Sciences Copy link Email Share Link Twitter Share Link Facebook Share Link LinkedIn Share Link Media Contact University Communications Email: UTMedia@utexas.edu Phone: (512) 471-3151 The University of Texas at Austin Science & Technology Dec 21, 2017 This UT Austin Research Changed The World in 2017 By: Kylie Fitzpatrick Continue Reading Explore Latest Articles May 25, 2022 Roger Bonnecaze Named Dean of the Cockrell School of Engineering Read More Roger Bonnecaze Named Dean of the Cockrell School of Engineering May 23, 2022 Low-Cost Gel Film Can Pluck Drinking Water From Desert Air Read More Low-Cost Gel Film Can Pluck Drinking Water From Desert Air May 23, 2022 Instability Can Benefit Teams with Different Expertise Read More Instability Can Benefit Teams with Different Expertise Subscribe to the TEXAS Newsletter UT Austin on Twitter UT Austin on Instagram UT Austin on Facebook UT Austin on LinkedIn UT News Home For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Experts Guide News Archive Pitch Form UT Austin Home Site Policies Web Privacy Policy Emergency Information Web Accessibility Policy Disability Resources © The University of Texas at Austin 2022