Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Engineering Faculty Members Honored facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Tag: technology transfer May 18, 2022 NC State Ranked One of Nation’s Elite Technology Transfer Universities NC State ranks second among all U.S. public universities in research technology transfer and commercialization according to a comprehensive analysis. Apr 20, 2017 NC State Makes Top 25 for Technology Transfer NC State ranks No. 25 among the 200 research institutions studied in the Milken Institute’s latest listing of best universities for technology transfer. May 10, 2016 Smart Research Keeps Produce Fresh SmartFresh, an innovative product that helps extend the life of produce, is one of the most successful licensed technologies to come out of NC State research. Apr 4, 2016 A Leader in Licensing Research As a land-grant university, NC State focuses on sharing its work. That focus has always served North Carolina, and it’s having a broader impact, too. The Association of University Technology Managers (AUTM) recently ranked NC State a national leader in licensing and optioning research to the private sector. Sep 9, 2015 Guiding Ideas from the Research Lab to the Business World NC State is offering financial support to five research teams to help them develop research findings into viable business opportunities. The teams are focused on fields ranging from human health to the business of brewing beer. Oct 15, 2013 Pre-Proposals for CIF Due Nov. 4 The Office of Technology Transfer is now accepting pre-proposal submissions for the Fiscal Year 2015 funding cycle of the Chancellor’s Innovation Fund. Mar 24, 2011 Thinking Big Pete Geisen graduated from NC State with a degree and a job running his own company. Find out how NC State's focus on entrepreneurship pays big dividends for students who think big. Mar 24, 2011 Chancellor’s Fund Boosts Innovation If you’re an inventor on campus, you may be eligible for short-term funding to enhance the commercial value of your research through the Chancellor’s Innovation Fund. Sep 17, 2010 It’s the Economy, Professor NC State helps North Carolina create jobs to speed the economic recovery with the launch of a new research Springboard. Feb 4, 2010 Engineering Faculty Members Honored Ten engineering faculty members were recognized during the 2009 Innovation Showcase and Awards Ceremony hosted by the NC State Office of Technology Transfer and the Council for Entrepreneurial Development. Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.