skip to menu skip to content University of Southern California USC News Menu Search Search search Menu Search search Sections Arts Athletics Business Health Humanities Policy/Law Science/Technology Social Impact Student Life University Featured Topics Alzheimer’s Disease Research Sustainability more topics Subscribe to receive USC News via email Email address subscribe Science/Technology Laguna Niguel fire signals start of a long wildfire season in California USC experts predict wildfire threat to grow in coming years, but see hope in new mitigation methods. Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Print BY Paul McQuiston May 12, 2022 “Summer in California no longer means the beginning of fire season,” says USC Dornsife Professor Bill Deverell. “Rather, it means we are about to enter the roughest six or so months of a fire season that never ends.” (Photo/Courtesy of the U.S. Forest Service) Wildfires scorched the American West in 2021, leaving death and destruction in their wake. In California alone, Cal Fire recorded 8,835 wildfires that destroyed more than 2.5 million acres cumulatively. The Dixie Fire in Northern California was particularly destructive, charring nearly 1 million acres, over 1,000 structures and killing one person. A new season has begun and with alarming speed. The Laguna Niguel wildfire in Orange County destroyed at least 20 homes and hundreds of acres of foliage in no time. The continued effects of climate change and especially extreme drought mean wildfire poses a risk year-round, said Bill Deverell, director of the Huntington-USC Institute on California and the West and head of its The West on Fire research project. Laguna Niguel fire portends a fire season that never ends “Summer in California no longer means the beginning of fire season. Rather, it means we are about to enter the roughest six or so months of a fire season that never ends,” said Deverell, who is also a professor of history and spatial sciences at the USC Dornsife College of Letters, Arts and Sciences. “Drought and the increasing effects of climate change come together in creating the likelihood — even the certainty — of bigger, hotter, and more catastrophic fires year to year.” What we need is more fire on the brain. Bill Deverell, Huntington-USC Institute on California and the West Deverell noted fire management practices continue to adapt. For instance, prescribed burns help cut the fuel supply to emerging fires. Regardless, the changes will take time to implement, he said. Awareness and continued research on wildfires are essential to addressing the threat. “What we need is more fire on the brain: We have to talk about it more, we have to study it more, and we have to try to understand it better, even as the ‘fire regimes’ of the American West are changing year to year,” Deverell said. California wildfires: Downwind smoke presents additional threat to L.A. residents The destructive capacity of the fire is only one threat. Downwind smoke means the detrimental effects of the fires — smoke and particulates — reach into urban centers, even if the flames don’t. Ed Avol, professor of clinical population and public health sciences at the Keck School of Medicine of USC and expert on smoke toxicity, said the smoke can affect people hundreds of miles from an active fire. “We often forget that wildfire impacts extend to cities and areas hundreds or more miles beyond the actual wildfire location through downwind smoke,” he said. “The resulting poor air quality can affect your physical, mental and psychological health, so plan in advance for what you might do in case an event occurs where you live or work.” Avol suggests keeping N95 masks handy and to consider a home air purifier that can filter an amount of air consistent to the size of the room or house you plan to use it. If there is an active wildfire or substantial smoke in your area, he advises: “Reduce your exercise, stay indoors with windows and doors closed, and remember to place damp towels at the base of exit doors and windows.” Establishing a defensible space is also essential in the event of a nearby fire, according to postdoctoral researcher Rebecca Miller, who works with Deverell on The West on Fire project. Los Angeles isn’t immune from the effects of wildfires, she said, and residents can prepare ahead of time — before a fire has even started near them. Communities and residents can prepare for wildfires and the possibility of an evacuation by making a plan now. Rebecca Miller, Huntington-USC Institute on California and the West “Los Angeles has seen significant structure losses from recent wildfires like the Woolsey Fire in 2018, but residents may also be exposed to high smoke concentrations originating across California or the western United States,” she said. “Communities and residents can prepare for wildfires and the possibility of an evacuation by making a plan now. Cal Fire provides specific tips for how residents can prepare for wildfires at readyforwildfire.org.” More stories about: Climate Change, Sustainability Related stories Health The sky across California darkened and turned orange in September as smoke from many wildfires across the state created a massive smoke cloud changing the sunlight and air quality. (Photo/Jason Doiy, iStock) Effects of West Coast wildfires go beyond evacuations and air quality USC experts explain why the worst wildfires in California’s history are just a preview of climate change’s eventual impact on our everyday lives. September 17, 2020 Health Smoke from the Camp Fire is affecting air quality in California and is visible from space. (Photo/NASA) California wildfires raise concerns about impacts to environment and health USC experts offer insight into why wildlands burn so much and how smoke harms people. November 14, 2018 Science/Technology (Photo/Pixabay) Smoke, heat and stress: A snapshot from Southern California of life in an altered climate The latest USC Dornsife-Union Bank LABarometer survey shows that the effects of climate change have impacted Los Angeles County residents in a variety of ways including mental health. December 14, 2021 Policy/Law The sky across California darkened and turned orange in September as smoke from many wildfires across the state created a massive smoke cloud changing the sunlight and air quality. (Photo/Jason Doiy, iStock) Big fires demand a big response: How 1910’s Big Burn can help us think smarter about fighting wildfires and living with fire Expensive, militarized fire suppression led the U.S. down a forest management path that neglected more nuanced approaches, two USC experts note. September 27, 2021 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Email Print Laguna Niguel fire signals start of a long wildfire season in California Top stories on USC News Social Impact (Photo/Courtesy of the U.S. WWI Centennial Commission) ‘We were young, they say. We have died. Remember us.’ USC Dornsife alumnus and retired Navy Capt. Chris Isleib helped create the first national memorial for World War I veterans, part of a long career spent telling the stories of America’s military. May 27 Social ImpactUniversity Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Queer (LGBTQ) Pride Month is celebrated each June to honor the 1969 Stonewall uprising in Manhattan, a tipping point for the gay liberation movement in the United States. (USC illustration) USC Pride Month to celebrate ‘The Power of Community’ Kickoff on June 1 includes virtual event sharing personal stories and Keck Hospital of USC flag-raising ceremony. May 27 Health USC researchers have linked air pollution to everything from increased risk of autism to asthma and cardiovascular disease. (Photo/Alfred Palmer/Public Domain) Exposure to air pollution can worsen patient outcomes from COVID-19 A study by researchers of the Keck School of Medicine of USC and Kaiser Permanente finds a link between exposure to airborne particulate matter and increased risk of serious coronavirus complications. May 26 Subscribe to receive USC News via email Email address subscribe About This Site Contact Us Privacy Notice Notice of Non-Discrimination