Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: STEM Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Share College of Arts and SciencesGraduate School Physics graduate students Merrill Asp (left) and Sarthak Gupta (right) at an outreach event at Westhill High School in Syracuse. “When am I ever going to use this in real life?” That is the oft-heard refrain from middle- and high-school science students, struggling through labs and formulas that feel as far removed from their day-to-day as, well, space travel. Sarthak Gupta and Merrill Asp, graduate students in the College of Arts and Sciences’ physics department, are working to answer that question one student at a time, through hands-on experiments and demonstrations in local classrooms, thanks to an outreach program funded by a 2021-22 grant from the New York State section of the American Physical Society (APS). Recently, we spoke to them about the beginnings of the program, how their work with students has taken shape so far, and what they’ve got planned next. Q: How did the physics outreach program come about? Merrill Asp: We saw the funding opportunity from APS, and thought, ‘what can we contribute to outreach?’. Sarthak Gupta: The idea we had was to take research from universities to schools, so students could see how what they’re learning now will be used in the future. Asp: In science education, it can feel like these subjects are a closed book, like everything is already figured out. But people like us are pursuing research questions all the time, and the larger academic world is always looking at unanswered questions. Q: How far has the outreach gone? Asp: Our grant was for middle and high schools. We have visited eight classrooms in three Central New York-area high schools so far. We also visited the Museum of Science and Technology (MoST), which runs a summer camp for middle-school aged kids. The museum graciously allowed us a chunk of time to try out our lessons. We’ve reached out to hundreds of students already. Q: Have there been challenges in connecting with schools and reaching the populations you particularly are hoping to reach? Gupta: We’ve learned it [this outreach] has to be a longer-term process, getting hold of teachers, scheduling visits—to foster these relationships and then sustain them over time. Q: Aside from scheduling, resources can be an obstacle in planning outreach visits. What are you doing to counter that? Gupta: We realized that not all schools have equipment, so we bought what we needed to be self-sufficient. We don’t require anything from the schools except the space and time. Merrill Asp (right) working with students on a physics demonstration. Q: What kinds of experiments have you been doing with the classes, and why did you choose them? Asp: For both of us, our background is in soft-matter physics. Which overlaps with bio-physics—the physics of living systems. It’s not what people tend to think about when they think physics. But that’s where a lot of the exciting open questions are. Each of our demos introduces a single concept—one is diffusion, another is viscoelasticity. First with definitions, then showing how they work. Q: Let’s start with the diffusion lesson. How does it work? Asp: We bring a fairly powerful microscope. The sample is just a well of water, but in it are tiny microscopic Styrofoam spheres. In the microscope, you can see those spheres being knocked into and jostled around by all these water molecules. We’re looking at something on a small enough scale that you can actually see diffusion—something moving from a higher concentration to a lower one—happen in real time. After the demo we do a group activity, using a model called the random walk. We give all the students some graph paper and eight-sided dice, and they roll the dice and simulate on their graph paper a random moving path. At the end, we can put all these simulations together, and show how these random paths put together will simulate something spreading out. That’s diffusion. Q: And viscoelasticity? Gupta: The idea is that there are materials that are elastic [or solid-like]—like a rubber band that can be stretched and will return to shape—and some that are viscous, and will flow, like honey. But there are also materials that are in between, with properties of both. We give a demo with a tabletop rheometer [an accessible and portable version of a lab tool that measures viscoelastic properties, developed a couple of summers ago in the lab of Professor Alison Patteson with local high school physics teacher Elise Jutzeler]. It’s basically a plate that comes down and rotates. The material [it’s measuring] will move, then it will go back. How much it goes back will depend on how elastic it is. Then we do a fun activity. We have the students make a slime with borax, glue, water, and food color. The more borax you have in the solution, the more elastic the slime will be. To understand viscosity, you just pinch the slime: If it’s viscous, it will flow down slowly. But if it’s not, it will stay where it is. For the elastic A student stretching out slime that was created by mixing borax, glue, water and food coloring. property, you just make a ball and drop it on the table: If it’s elastic, it will bounce; if it isn’t, it will basically…splat. Q: So how to do these lessons translate to real-world applications? Asp: Diffusion is an important process for how cells take in food, how they excrete waste, how oxygen is transported in the blood—all driven by diffusion. Gupta: Tissues in our bodies are viscoelastic materials. When cells move from one place to another, they go through tissue. Asp: There’s been a lot of research around how cancer cells or tumor cells are able to migrate to different parts of the body—and what allows them to is very much tied to how much the tissue and cells are solid-like versus fluid-like. We need to understand how those changes happen to understand cancer metastasis. Q: How have the students received the lessons? Asp: In all the classes, the students have been very engaged and expressed interest, but at the end of most lessons, there are one or two kids who have lots and lots of extra questions. We’ll spend time at the end talking to them about our research. Gupta: We’ve also gotten appreciation from teachers, for connecting those dots between what they’re teaching and the real-world meaning of them. They’ve told us the kids are waiting for us to come back again! Q: And do you have any plans for how to keep that enthusiasm going? Sarthak Gupta presenting to a class about elastic materials. Gupta: The research tells us that visiting a high school classroom once is not enough for the students to retain what they’ve learned. So part of the plan from the beginning was to do multiple visits to each classroom. To see how their levels of engagement and understanding were changing over the weeks. We hope to be able to do that. Asp: And in the future, instead of taking our stuff to classrooms, we’d like to organize something to bring students to a new space, like to campus, where we could do new kinds of real-world demos in a hands-on fashion. The unique memory of that could have a significant impact for the students. Gupta: [Another possibility is] connecting the labs we have here to local schools through research internships. So high schoolers can see the fun and the daily grind of a researcher. Gupta: But [for now] we also encourage the students to learn more on their own. Physics is a collaborative subject, so after each demo we give them a worksheet and encourage them to talk in groups. We also give a handout with resources and more information about the lesson. On the back, we have a biography of a physicist from an underrepresented minority group with links to learn more. To show them you don’t have to be a certain kind of person to do physics. We want to inspire them. We tell them, what you’re learning now, we do this on a daily basis in our research. There are the problems that are not solved yet—no one knows the answer. But you can do it. About the Outreach Program Funding: a grant from the New York State section of the American Physical Society Timeline: Application granted in spring 2021; program developed over the summer and outreach began in local schools in the fall Participating schools (currently): Westhill High School, Jamesville-Dewitt High School in Syracuse, and with TST P-TECH Academy at Dryden, New York. And the summer camp program at the Milton J. Rubenstein Museum of Science & Technology (MoST) Team: Sarthak Gupta and Merrill Asp, as well as six other graduate and undergraduate students: Renita Saldanha, Prashali Chauhan, Nimisha Krishnan, Matt Cufari, Daniel Paradiso and Shabeeb Ameen. Support provided by Professors Alison Patteson and Jen Schwarz, as well as department chair Professor Jennifer Ross and instructional lab manager Sam Sampere. Assessment support provided by the Shaw Center. -Story by Laura Wallis. Author Dan Bernardi Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In STEM Bringing ‘CSI’ Into the Classroom Dusting for fingerprints, documenting blood stain patterns and measuring bullet trajectory—you might think this is a description of a recent episode from the popular television series “CSI.” While this may be true, these are also the daily lessons students are… Matt Cufari Named as a 2022-23 Astronaut Scholar Matt Cufari, a senior physics major in the College of Arts and Sciences (A&S), a computer science major in the College of Engineering and Computer Science, a Coronat Scholar and a member of the Renée Crown University Honors Program, has… Dean Rajiv ‘Raj’ Dewan to Step Down as Dean of the School of Information Studies Rajiv “Raj” Dewan, dean of the School of Information Studies, has announced he will conclude his deanship on June 30, 2022. Dewan plans to return to full-time faculty duties while continuing his research. David Seaman, dean of Syracuse University Libraries… Biology and Earth and Environmental Sciences Departments Come Together on Diversity and Engagement Initiatives In 1948, Professor James Hope Birnie became Syracuse University’s first African American faculty member in biology, teaching here until 1951. He was also one of its first biology faculty members to be supported by the National Institutes of Health (NIH)…. Black Hole Image Shows Einstein Was Right, Once Again Today a team of astronomers announced they successfully captured the first direct image of the black hole at the center of the Milky Way galaxy. Duncan Brown is the Charles Brightman Endowed Professor of Physics at Syracuse University’s College of… Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.