Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Bulletin facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Bulletin From campus updates to employee profiles, the Bulletin is a hub of news and information for NC State faculty and staff. Wolfpack at Work Each week the Bulletin email delivers news, events, resources — and fun stuff, too — straight to the inboxes of NC State employees. Between issues, keep up with the latest happenings right here at the Bulletin’s new online home. Think of it as a virtual water cooler, and be sure to check in often. Have a story idea or news item to share? We want to hear from you. After all, NC State faculty and staff make NC State a great university — and a great place to work. faculty and staff news More Stories A School of Fishes At a research center in the port town of Morehead City, 18 veterinary medicine students get hands-on experience operating on fish. Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance The soft robots demonstrate a concept called “physical intelligence.” Applications for Admission Soar as NC State Grows to Meet Workforce Needs Demand for an NC State degree is at an all-time high as the university prepares to welcome its largest and most diverse first-year class. The Latest Issue We publish the Bulletin email every Thursday, with a modified schedule during the winter and summer breaks. Read the May 26 Bulletin News You Need Stay up to date on everything from employee resources and perks to recognition programs and special events. Read the Latest News from University HR We Are the Wolfpack Meet some of the nearly 10,000 faculty and staff who work in a wide variety of ways to make NC State great. Get to Know Your Fellow Employees Bulletin board More News From Around Campus Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Many members of DELTA’s staff have worked tirelessly to make the course a success for incoming first-year and transfer students. Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Professor Bob Franks says he looks forward to serving as the interim department head for Applied Ecology while the college and department search for a permanent leader. NC State Names 42 Students to Park Scholarships Program Students in the university’s 27th class of Park Scholars represent nine states and 20 North Carolina counties. Poultry Science’s Curtis Praised for Transformative Leadership After more than 30 years working in higher education, 15 of those years at North Carolina State University, Patricia Curtis, department head for the Prestage Department of Poultry Science, is retiring beginning July 1. Evans Wins Back-to-Back Awards for Community Service, Diversity and Inclusion Efforts Staff member Raven Evans recently won two awards, including the Office of Finance and Administration’s Award for Excellence in Human Relations. Bee-Friendly All Summer Did you know honey bees are the most important insect pollinator for crops grown in North Carolina? Help promote pollinators with these bee-friendly tips. Where’s the Wolf? Throughout the year in the Bulletin, we’ll publish images of our furry friend hanging out in different spots on campus. Guess the location correctly, and you could win an NC State prize pack. Meet Our Latest Winner editor’s pick Free Tickets Did you know faculty and staff are eligible to receive free single-game admission to select athletics events, including this season’s baseball and softball games? You can also get discounted season tickets to select sports. A new NC State Athletics webpage has all the details. Check It Out Upcoming Events All Events May 31 Tuesday10:00 AM Across the Threshold of India – Photographs by Martha Strawn May 31 Tuesday10:00 AM Eric Serritella – Sharing Spaces May 31 Tuesday10:00 AM Frank Lee Craig – Near Distance #1 Large Employer Forbes surveyed 60,000 Americans to find the best places to work. In North Carolina, the top choice is NC State. Get the Details We Want to Hear From You There are a number of ways to participate in Bulletin stories and share your news and ideas with us — check them out below. And feel free to contact us anytime at bulletin@ncsu.edu. Bulletin News Have a story idea or news item for the Bulletin? We’re all ears. Howl About You Share five facts about yourself for this HR series that also runs in the Bulletin. Voices Write your own narrative (with our editors’ guidance) about a life-changing experience. Resilient Pack Shine a light on fellow employees going the extra mile during COVID-19. Employee Resources The Faculty and Staff page is packed with key resources and information you might need, from benefits to technology services. Check It Out Bulletin Archive We’ve corralled issues from the last year to make it easier for you to find the stories you want to revisit. Need an older edition? Just drop us a line: bulletin@ncsu.edu Spring 2022 May 26: Go behind the scenes of fish surgery May 19: Focusing on mental health May 12: Check out another example of our ‘Resilient Pack’ in action May 5: The graduation issue April 28: Howling about NC State employees April 21: Guess our wolf’s new location on campus April 14: The upside of pollen: our campus in bloom April 7: Earth Month: You can make the world a better place April 1: Make your “Where’s the Wolf?” guess by April 7 March 25: It’s (almost) time to have your say Winter 2022 March 17: Meet the first female CVM dean March 10: Celebrating women past, present and future March 3: Get wellness tips from fellow employees + free care package Feb. 24: NC State named best place to work Feb. 17: Love is in the air at NC State Feb. 10: NC State celebrates Black History Month Feb. 3: NC State honors outstanding advisors, University Faculty Scholars Jan. 27: Awards galore Jan. 20: The impact of an extraordinary campaign Jan. 13: MLK events, new wellness toolkit and more Jan. 6: Our year in review (and what’s on the horizon) Fall 2021 Dec. 16: Test your campus knowledge with “Where’s the Wolf?” Dec. 9: Chancellor Woodson shares a new video message Dec. 2: Find out how (and why) NC State is expanding Nov. 18: ‘Tis the season for supporting our community Nov. 11: Remembering NC State veterans Nov. 4: Find out how metal foam could save lives Oct. 28: Add your voice to Wolfpack history Oct. 21: Join the fun of Red and White Week Oct. 14: Mental Health First Aid equips employees to help others Oct. 7: Curtains up for Stewart Theatre Sept. 30: Chancellor Woodson shares campus updates Sept. 23: Why is the Wolfpack called the Wolfpack? Summer 2021 Sept. 16: NC State welcomes 1,000 international students Sept. 9: 9/11: The day the Wolfpack lost a veteran Sept. 2: Check out the Bulletin’s new look Aug. 26: NC State named one of top places to work in N.C. Aug. 19: Meet our record-breaking incoming class Aug. 5: NC State, NSF institute to focus on AI and future of education July 22: Meet our Wolfpack Olympians July 8: Meet a Churchill Scholar and remember a pioneering faculty member June 24: Meet six employees who started work during COVID Spring 2021 June 10: Meet a trailblazing staffer May 27: Our ‘GradPack’ gives thanks May 20: Find out exactly how the Belltower rings May 13: Celebrating commencement, past and present May 6: Celebrating a ‘Legend in Stone’ April 29: ‘Tis the (awards) season April 22: Meet our Goldwater Scholars April 16: Find out what hurricane season may bring April 8: Meet an alumna working to elevate women’s sports April 1: Meet standout students helping protect the Pack March 26: NC State’s vaccine clinic is up and running Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.