Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Syracuse Views Fall 2021 Monday, December 6, 2021, By News Staff Share Holidays at Hendricks 2021. Photo by Amelia Marie Swanson Beamish, photographer in Division of Marketing We want to know how you experience Syracuse University. Take a photo and share it with us. We select photos from a variety of sources. Submit photos of your University experience using #SyracuseU on social media, fill out a submission form here or send directly to Syracuse University News at newsphoto@syr.edu. You might see it featured here. Sunset over Syracuse taken from the green roof on Syracuse Center of Excellence in Environmental and Energy Systems. Photo by Loral Wilson, staff member with the Syracuse CoE Campus community members placed over 2,500 tea lights in the Orange Grove in celebration of Diwali Nov. 4. The Department of Art and Music Histories in the College of Arts and Sciences organized the event in partnership with the National Minority Organization of Architecture Students (NOMAS) and the International Mentor Squad (School of Architecture), with co-sponsors South Asia Center (Maxwell School), School of Architecture and Hendricks Chapel. Photo by Qianzhen Li, intern in the Division of Marketing A member of the Marching Band performs during the 2021 Orange Central Tailgate Celebration Saturday, Oct. 30, on the Kenneth A. Shaw Quadrangle. Photo by Ross Knight, executive director of photography, Division of Marketing Remembrance Scholars sit in solidarity Oct. 18 on the Kenneth A. Shaw Quadrangle as part of the 35 Empty Seats Display, a visual representation of the the 35 Syracuse University students lost aboard Pan Am Flight 103. Student artwork adorns the walls of the Mount Olympus stairway that leads up to Flint and Day halls. Photo by Marilyn Hesler, staff photographer, Division of Marketing Author News Staff Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Uncategorized “Syracuse University to rename the Carrier Dome – what name would fans choose?” Beth Egan, associate professor of advertising in the Newhouse School, was quoted in the CNY Central story “Syracuse University to rename the Carrier Dome – what name would fans choose?” Egan, who specializes in strategic communications and advertising, discussed why… Syracuse Views Spring 2022 We want to know how you experience Syracuse University. Take a photo and share it with us. We select photos from a variety of sources. Submit photos of your University experience using #SyracuseU on social media, fill out a submission… “Can the Working Class End PMC Environmentalism?” Matthew Huber, professor of geography and the environment in the Maxwell School, was interviewed for the Diet Soap Media Podcast episode “Can the Working Class End PMC Environmentalism?” Huber, who studies climate politics, discussed his new book that unpacks the failures… Breen authors piece on Samuel Alito Jenny Breen, associate professor of law in the College of Law, authored the Common Dreams opinion piece “The ‘Raw Judicial Power’ of Samuel Alito Is an Attack on Dignity, Autonomy, and Progress.” Breen, who teaches Constitutional law, discussed the leak… “Governors Island’s New Orchard Is a Treasure Trove of Rare Fruits” An art installation created by Sam Van Aken, associate professor of studio arts in the College of Visual and Performing Arts, was featured in the Thrillist story “Governors Island’s New Orchard Is a Treasure Trove of Rare Fruits.” Van Aken, who… Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.