Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts Media, Law & Policy VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Carlton Daniel Jr. G’16 fell in love with filmmaking at an early age. Growing up in Ohio, he spent a lot of his childhood at the local movie theater, browsing for videos at Blockbuster and dissecting films with his family…. Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… Health & Society Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland Jennifer Cornish Genovese is a professor of social work in the Falk College, a New York State licensed certified social worker and has worked in private practice as a psychotherapist for 30 years. She specializes in helping children deal with… Media Tip Sheets PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette June is PTSD Awareness Month and it serves as yet another reminder of the mental health struggles many veterans face each and every day – often times without any support, according to this recent Op-Ed in Newsweek written by John… STEM Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi “When am I ever going to use this in real life?” That is the oft-heard refrain from middle- and high-school science students, struggling through labs and formulas that feel as far removed from their day-to-day as, well, space travel. Sarthak… Campus & Community COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Friday, May 27, 2022, By News Staff Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Campus & Community Preparing Students for a Life of Success Friday, May 27, 2022, By Caroline K. Reff Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Health & Society Alumni Draw on Their Military Experience in Their Roles as Teachers Thursday, May 26, 2022, By Martin Walls Do military veterans make good teachers? This question was posed to two School of Education alumni—one a former U.S. Army pilot and the other a former Air Force systems and IT technician turned linguist—who both now teach in Upstate New… STEM Bringing ‘CSI’ Into the Classroom Thursday, May 26, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Dusting for fingerprints, documenting blood stain patterns and measuring bullet trajectory—you might think this is a description of a recent episode from the popular television series “CSI.” While this may be true, these are also the daily lessons students are… Campus & Community Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Thursday, May 26, 2022, By News Staff Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… 12345 Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.