Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Cultivating a career in science Keeping her goals in focus Campus & Community Cultivating a career in science Exposure to genetics opened up new avenues of research Campus & Community Cultivating a career in science It was her interest in research that brought Zahra Aldawood, D.M.Sc. ’18, M.M.Sc. ’21, to Harvard School of Dental Medicine. Photos courtesy of Zahra Aldawood Exposure to genetics opened up new avenues of research By Heather Denny HSDM Communications DateMay 17, 2021May 18, 2021 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 Global alumni community gather for first virtual annual meeting View all of Honoring the Class of 2021 This is one in a series of profiles showcasing some of Harvard’s stellar graduates. Zahra Aldawood, D.M.Sc. ’18, M.M.Sc. ’21, recalls the moment in dental school when she realized she wanted to pursue genetic research as one of the most enlightening experiences of her life. “I conducted research to examine the ‘nature versus nurture’ effect on characteristics of twins’ teeth. It was my first time being exposed to the world of genetics,” Aldawood said. “That work shifted my thinking from the simplicity of ‘hereditary versus environment’ toward the complexity of ‘genetic, epigenetic, and environment.’” Eager to learn more, she sought out academic mentors in her native Saudi Arabia, and studied genomic variations in different contexts such as sickle cell anemia, heart disease, and cancer using next generation sequencing. The more she learned, she was hooked. Her interest in research led Aldawood to Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) in 2015 where she was accepted into the Research Academy program in Oral Biology offered through HSDM and the Forsyth Institute. She completed her Doctor of Medical Science degree in 2018 and was recognized with the James H. Shaw Award for her research exploring regeneration in calvarial bone defects. Zahra Aldawood studied generic research at Harvard School of Dental Medicine. “During my D.M.Sc. training (in oral biology) I was very interested in learning more about the adult stem cell,” Aldawood said. “I used state-of-the-art mouse genetics to explore the response, during bone regeneration, of a specific population of endogenous skeletal stem cells (SSC) to mechanical stimuli. At HSDM, every day comes with an interesting opportunity to design a new experiment and to learn about a novel discovery or technology,” she said. Her interest to delve deeper into genetic research led her to pursue a subsequent degree program in Oral and Maxillofacial Pathology where she explored genetics related to cancer, and was involved in investigating the genetic landscapes of primary intracranial sarcomas. “I found the challenging environment at Harvard a very encouraging and motivating one as I grew personally and professionally,” she said. “Being surrounded by world-class experts in different fields and brilliant individuals gave me more motivation and support and had a profound impact on my ultimate goal. I was lucky enough to advance my journey at HSDM in oral pathology to complete the bench-to-bedside loop.” When not immersed in her research, Aldawood found respite in a familiar hobby she grew up with in Saudi Arabia — gardening. “When I was not at HSDM running experiments, my favorite thing was to spend my time at Countway Library reading or gardening and I became a member of the Countway garden community,” she said. When she graduates in May, Aldawood will return to Saudi Arabia to continue her academic career and research endeavors as a full-time academic educator and researcher in the Biomedical and Dental Science Department at the College of Dentistry at Imam Abdul Rahman Bin Faisal University. She hopes to cultivate the same sense of curiosity and passion for science that she discovered in the next generation of dental students. “My biggest dream is to help my students’ dreams come alive,” she said. “I truly believe that the only way to be fair toward knowledge is to share it and participate in constructing bright minds. I also want to reciprocate the deep and sincere interests of my community to find long hoped-for solutions of the many health diseases we are facing.” The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Also in the Series Many happy returns Triple the joy A call to public service Merrick Garland to speak at Commencement for Classes of 2020 and 2021 Global alumni community gather for first virtual annual meeting View all of Honoring the Class of 2021 Up Next Campus & Community Keeping her goals in focus Campus & Community Keeping her goals in focus Rawan Alhawamdeh captured campus scenes before returning to the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain. Photos courtesy of Rawan Alhawamdeh