Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News Law Professor Suzanne Goldberg Weighs in on Historic Same-Sex Marriage Ruling Research Law Professor Suzanne Goldberg Weighs in on Historic Same-Sex Marriage Ruling July 08, 2015 Columbia Law School Professor Suzanne B. Goldberg has more reason than most to be thrilled with the U.S. Supreme Court decision legalizing gay marriage nationwide. As a lawyer for nearly a decade with Lambda Legal, the country’s oldest and largest legal organization working for civil rights of LGBTQ individuals, she has been a force in the fight for marriage equality. Goldberg served as co-counsel on two landmark U.S. Supreme Court cases: Romer v. Evans, which invalidated a Colorado constitutional amendment that blocked LGBT individuals from receiving anti-discrimination protection, and Lawrence v. Texas, which struck down that state’s anti-sodomy law. Related Links Marriage Equality and the American Legal Tradition, by Suzanne Goldberg, American Constitution Society for Law and Policy, June 26, 2015 Law Professor Discusses Marriage Equality, The Record, Sept 8, 2010 Lawrence v. Texas was litigated all the way up to the Supreme Court, which in 2003 invalidated the state’s sodomy laws in a 6-3 ruling written by Associate Justice Anthony Kennedy. It was the first in a series of court challenges that culminated in Friday’s historic decision in Obergefell v. Hodges, written once again by Kennedy. Goldberg, now executive vice president of University Life and a law professor who runs the Law School's Sexuality and Gender Law Clinic, says “by striking down state laws that shut same-sex couples out of marriage, the U.S. Supreme Court has put an end to a long and painful chapter in our country’s history and, at the same time, created an opening for a new wave of civil rights, safety, and justice advocacy.“ Tags Law LGBTQ News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close