UT Wordmark Primary UT Wordmark Formal Shield Texas UT News Camera Chevron Close Search Copy Link Download File Hamburger Menu Time Stamp Open in browser Load More Pull quote Cloudy and windy Cloudy Partly Cloudy Rain and snow Rain Showers Snow Sunny Thunderstorms Wind and Rain Windy Facebook Instagram LinkedIn Twitter email alert map calendar bullhorn Skip to content ↓ Information and resources related to COVID-19 Protect Texas Together Close Banner The University of Texas at Austin May 31, 2022 UT News Navigation Search Close Navigation UT News News Opinions Series UT Stories: COVID-19 What Starts Here Campaign Stories UT Research Science & Technology Health & Wellness Arts & Humanities Education & Leadership Business & Economy Campus & Community Policy & Law For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Experts Guide Pitch Form Archive UT Austin on Twitter UT Austin on Instagram UT Austin on Facebook UT Austin on LinkedIn Search for content on UT News Search Button Education & Leadership May 25, 2022 Roger Bonnecaze Named Dean of the Cockrell School of Engineering Roger Bonnecaze AUSTIN, Texas — Roger Bonnecaze, an internationally recognized expert in rheology and modeling and simulation for nanomanufacturing who has served as a faculty member at The University of Texas at Austin for nearly 30 years, has been named dean of the university’s Cockrell School of Engineering after a national search. Bonnecaze, who has been serving as interim dean since July, will begin his appointment on June 1. He succeeds Sharon L. Wood, who served as dean for eight years before being appointed the university’s executive vice president and provost last summer. “Roger Bonnecaze is a world-class researcher, a passionate educator and a tremendous leader, and I am delighted that he will be guiding the Cockrell School of Engineering for years to come,” Wood said. “As a professor, former department chair and co-founding director of the Nanomanufacturing Systems for Mobile Computing and Energy Technologies (NASCENT) Center, Roger has been integral to the Cockrell School’s success for almost three decades. He is deeply devoted to the Texas Engineering community — and to building an inclusive and supportive culture where all students, faculty and staff will thrive.” Bonnecaze currently holds the George T. and Gladys H. Abell Endowed Chair in Engineering in the McKetta Department of Chemical Engineering. He joined the engineering faculty at UT Austin in 1993 as an assistant professor and was later promoted to associate and then full professor. He served as chair of the McKetta Department from 2005 to 2013. Bonnecaze also co-founded the NASCENT Center, the first National Science Foundation Engineering Research Center led by the Cockrell School, where he organized and led research projects with colleagues from numerous disciplines, engaged industrial partners in both research and entrepreneurial activities, and coordinated educational programs for the UT and greater Austin community. In 2019, Bonnecaze stepped down as co-director to help launch SandBox Semiconductor, a startup spun out of the NASCENT Center, based on research and led by a former doctoral student in his research group. “I am thrilled to become the 10th dean of the Cockrell School, a place I have called home for decades. The school is poised to become the highest-impact public engineering school, and I am excited to build on the foundation of successes laid by Provost Wood,” Bonnecaze said. “With the convergence of outstanding talent, a supportive university leadership, industry engagement, visionary investors who aspire to help us implement our technologies, and passionate donors, we have an incredible opportunity to take the Cockrell School to the next level.” Bonnecaze’s research expertise includes nanomanufacturing modeling and simulation and the rheology and behavior of complex fluids. He has won numerous awards, including the NSF Young Investigator Award, the David and Lucile Packard Foundation Fellowship, the AIChE Thomas Baron Award and several teaching awards. He is a fellow of the American Physical Society, the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, the Society of Rheology and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He received a B.S. from Cornell University and an M.S. and Ph.D. from the California Institute of Technology, all in chemical engineering. Prior to joining the engineering faculty at UT Austin, he was a postdoctoral fellow in the Department of Applied Mathematics and Theoretical Physics and the Institute of Theoretical Geophysics at the University of Cambridge. Copy link Email Share Link Twitter Share Link Facebook Share Link LinkedIn Share Link Tags: Cockrell School of Engineering, Community Copy link Email Share Link Twitter Share Link Facebook Share Link LinkedIn Share Link Media Contact Nat Levy Cockrell School of Engineering p: 512-471-2129 e: nat.levy@utexas.edu The University of Texas at Austin Explore Latest Articles May 23, 2022 Low-Cost Gel Film Can Pluck Drinking Water From Desert Air Read More Low-Cost Gel Film Can Pluck Drinking Water From Desert Air May 23, 2022 Instability Can Benefit Teams with Different Expertise Read More Instability Can Benefit Teams with Different Expertise What Starts Here Campaign Stories May 23, 2022 UT for Me Read More UT for Me Subscribe to the TEXAS Newsletter UT Austin on Twitter UT Austin on Instagram UT Austin on Facebook UT Austin on LinkedIn UT News Home For Journalists Press Releases Media Contacts Experts Guide News Archive Pitch Form UT Austin Home Site Policies Web Privacy Policy Emergency Information Web Accessibility Policy Disability Resources © The University of Texas at Austin 2022