Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeHome Inline CSS for Tulane News Articles Tulane School of Professional Advancement offers active military and vets tuition reduction May 30, 2019 1:30 PM | Roger Dunaway roger@tulane.edu Print to PDF military 533 .jpg Tulane's School of Professional Advancement is offering a 20 percent tuition reduction for active military members and veterans. (Shutterstock photo) The Tulane University School of Professional Advancement (SoPA) announced a significant discount on tuition for active duty military members and veterans. Beginning with the fall 2019 semester, SoPA is offering a 20 percent tuition reduction for graduate-level courses to help people on active duty advance professionally and retired military members to successfully pursue civilian careers. “Supporting those currently serving and those transitioning into civilian life is part of our mission,” says Suri Duitch, dean of the School of Professional Advancement. “We are excited to extend this tuition discount to active duty military members and veterans in our online and on-ground graduate degrees and certificates.” SoPA works hard to create an educational environment that is welcoming and rewarding for U.S. armed forces members and veterans. In coordination with Tulane University’s Veterans Affairs office, SoPA provides educational benefits, federal loans, Yellow Ribbon and financial aid options geared to meet the needs of veterans and military personnel, in addition to this tuition reduction. With so many degree programs offered exclusively online, SoPA also allows students to pursue degrees and certifications while still serving and/or balancing school and full-time jobs. According to the Department of Veterans Affairs, the transition from military to civilian life can be a challenging and stressful process for service members, veterans and their families. However, military backgrounds are often desirable to employers. Military personnel bring leadership, problem solving, teamwork and high-pressure decision-making skills, in addition to their technical knowledge. SoPA offers military students a chance to sharpen those skills and project their backgrounds into the next chapter of their careers. “Whether a student wants to build on their military background with a degree in Homeland Security Studies or Emergency or Security Management or wants a fresh start in a field such as Health & Wellness or Information Technology, our diverse degree programs provide solutions for veterans to accelerate their careers,” adds Michael Wallace, director of Emergency and Security Studies at SoPA. As a Servicemembers Opportunity College, SoPA can award undergraduate or graduate credit for previous training, work and life experience, and follows the American Council of Education’s Military Guide for curriculum and academic offerings. To receive the 20 percent reduction in tuition, veterans will provide the school with a DD Form 214, Certification of Release or Discharge from active duty. Active military will provide an official letter from the Education Office stating their active duty status. New applicants can upload these documents through the SoPA portal as a part of the admissions process. Current students should email documents to soparecords@tulane.edu with the subject line “Military Discount Records.” For more information on the tuition reduction for active military and veterans visit, Tulane SoPA military benefits page. Related Articles Other Related Articles Newcomb-Tulane College announces the William Wallace Peery Society Class of 2019 Tulane grads set sights on New Orleans for their startup Tulane School of Professional Advancement launches online master’s degree in sport studies PhD grad’s mission is saving lives Graduate explores social justice, pushes for change Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University