Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Faculty Experts Back To All Experts Kyla Garrett Wagner Assistant Professor, Communications 315-443-9235 kpwagner@syr.edu Visit Website Field Communications Expertise Communications Law First Amendment Law freedom of speech mass communications media regulations public health Kyla Garrett Wagner is an assistant professor of communications in the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications at Syracuse University. Garrett Wagner is an interdisciplinary legal and communications scholar studying the relationship between public health and the First Amendment. Her work combines both legal and communication research methods to investigate the impacts of health-driven media regulations on freedoms of speech and their impact on audiences. She was a Roy H. Park Fellow at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill from 2013 to 2019, during which time she earned a master’s and a doctoral degree in mass communication and was honored with the 2019 Rachel Davis Mersey Outstanding Ph.D. Student award from the School of Media and Journalism. She has authored or co-authored seven peer-reviewed publications and 14 conference papers. Read Full Bio Related Stories and Coverage WGRZ Garrett Wagner interviewed about Musk’s purchase of Twitter Monday, April 25, 2022, By Lily Datz Agence France-Presse “Musk-ruled Twitter: users left to fight trolls and misinformation?” Monday, April 25, 2022, By Lily Datz Media Tip Sheets Criticism of NYT editorial board’s stance on America’s free speech problem Wednesday, March 23, 2022, By Lily Datz Media Tip Sheets Legal, Political, and Historical Perspectives on Biden’s COVID Vaccination Mandate Saturday, November 13, 2021, By Lily Datz Media Tip Sheets We’ve always protested against public health mandates Thursday, November 4, 2021, By Lily Datz Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.