Skip to Content (Press Enter) CSUF News lock Portal Login Give Search search Menu Topics Campus and Community Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics Athletics Topics A-Z CSUF In the News Titan Spotlight People & Voices Faculty and Staff Students Alumni Titans of Academia Titans of Promise Titan Voices Titans of Tassel Events Resources E-Newsletter Subscription RSS Feeds Photos For Journalists Publications CSUF News Computer Engineering Grads Dream Up Creative, Real-World Senior Projects Latest A Message From Interim Chancellor Koester Tuffy Struts the Commencement Stage Final Day of Commencement Recognizes Communications, Humanities and Social Sciences Grads Business, Economics, Humanities and Social Sciences Graduates Honored at Ceremonies More CSUF In the News Promise fulfilled: CSUF’s Andrew Aguilar psychs himself to decathlon title May 24, 2022 Graduation 2022 Photos: Celebrating bright futures at Cal State Fullerton May 24, 2022 She killed the man who trafficked her. Will California ever forgive her? May 24, 2022 Trees on CSUF campus are rooted in history May 23, 2022 Summer session at CSUF offers students convenience, flexibility May 23, 2022 Titan Voices: President Fram Virjee – First Indian American Leading CSUF May 20, 2022 OC grads prepare to cap another year at colleges, universities May 20, 2022 As Baby Formula Shortage Worsens, Families Take Desperate Steps May 18, 2022 How To Get Your Degree, From 3 Undocumented Students May 18, 2022 Started as a Distraction During the Pandemic, Now Young ‘Dreamers’ have their Business Online (Spanish) May 18, 2022 Fullerton Arboretum Offers Locals a Serene, Unexpected Escape May 13, 2022 CSUF’s nursing program prepares students to serve diverse populations May 10, 2022 Titan Spotlight Human Resources Diversity and Inclusion Webinar on Emotional Well-being Offered Extension and International Programs Advance Your Teaching Career with this Fully-Online Course College of Natural Sciences and Mathematics CSUF Mathematics and Engineering Students Present Research at the Change DIAL Conference in Nebraska Human Resources Diversity and Inclusion Setting Goals and Habits that Stick Extension and International Programs How to Clear Your Teaching Credential Online Human Resources Diversity and Inclusion The Stress-Sleep Correlation College of Humanities and Social Sciences American Studies Scholar Awarded Mellon-Funded Fellowship College of Engineering and Computer Science Celebrate Dr. Mohinder Grewal’s 47 years of service with The Electrical Engineering Department Academic Affairs University Assessment Forum: University Assessment Forum Brings Campus Together College of Engineering and Computer Science From Taking Calculus I Five Times to Getting a Job Offer College of Engineering and Computer Science Graduating College at 41 and Boeing…Here I Come College of the Arts Music Alumna Wins Irene Schoepfle Award Submit Your Story Featured Titans of Tassel Class of 2022 Student Success Stories Diversity Equity and Inclusion The Talk: Anti-Racism Journey Through the Lens of Multiple Identities Campus and Community California Lt. Gov. Visits CSUF Campus Titan Magazine The Digital Magazine of Cal State Fullerton News Feed Campus Videos Faculty/Staff Athletics Colleges Down ArrowDown arrow indicating dropwdown menu. Arts Business and Economics Communications Education Engineering and Computer Science Health and Human Development Humanities and Social Sciences Natural Sciences and Mathematics More Topics... A Message From Interim Chancellor Koester May 26, 2022 To the California State University Community: Please allow me to introduce myself. My name is Jolene Koester, and it is my great honor to serve as the California State University’s interim chancellor for the next 12 to 15 months, as a search for the next regularly appointed chancellor is completed. This will truly be a […] Tuffy Struts the Commencement Stage May 26, 2022 Over four days of 2022 Commencement at Cal State Fullerton, thousands of graduates adorned in flashy kicks, practical flats and high heels crossed the stage. On the final day of commencement, one graduate’s footwear stood out from the rest: Two furry, elephant feet. Colin Hicks, who received a bachelor’s degree in communications on Thursday, revealed […] Final Day of Commencement Recognizes Communications, Humanities and Social Sciences Grads May 26, 2022 The College of Humanities and Social Sciences and College of Communications ceremonies on Thursday honored the Class of 2022 for the challenges students experienced during the pandemic and all they have accomplished in spite of them. College of Humanities and Social Sciences The third ceremony of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences focused on […] Business, Economics, Humanities and Social Sciences Graduates Honored at Ceremonies May 26, 2022 Graduates on Wednesday heard from regional and national business and public policy leaders during Cal State Fullerton’s 2022 Commencement ceremonies. University Recognizes Graduates in Health, Human Development, Sciences, Mathematics and Arts May 25, 2022 Cal State Fullerton’s 2022 Commencement continued Tuesday with ceremonies for the colleges of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, Health and Human Development, and the Arts. Education, Engineering and Computer Science Graduates Celebrate Accomplishments May 24, 2022 Two ceremonies for education, engineering and computer science graduates kicked off Cal State Fullerton’s 2022 commencement week. Commencement 2022 Live Broadcast May 23, 2022 Cal State Fullerton’s Commencement 2022 will be broadcast live on several platforms beginning Monday, May 23, and running through Thursday, May 26. Governor’s May Revise Includes $67.5 Million for Cal State Fullerton’s Engineering and Computer Science Innovation Hub May 18, 2022 The governor’s May Revise includes $67.5 million from the state of California to be applied toward CSUF’s Engineering and Computer Science Innovation Hub. Cal State Fullerton Commencement Celebrates Class of 2022 May 17, 2022 Approximately 12,000 students have been invited to walk across the stage during Cal State Fullerton’s May 23-26 commencement ceremonies. California Lt. Gov. Visits CSUF Campus May 16, 2022 California’s Lt. Gov. Eleni Kounalakis recently met with Cal State Fullerton President Fram Virjee for a tour of the CSUF campus. Titan of Empowerment: James Titan of Empowerment: Asha More News Browse All News Topics A-Z Athletics Follow Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube About CSUF Facts Contact Media Relations Find an Expert Privacy Policy Subscribe / Download Subscribe to our eNewsletters Submit a Story Do you have news you’d like to share with the campus? Submit Your Story This site is maintained by Strategic Communications. To report problems or comments, please contact strategiccomm@fullerton.edu. © California State University, Fullerton. All Rights Reserved. Web Accessibility Learn about web accessibility Report a web accessbility problem Download Adobe Acrobat Reader Microsoft Viewers Some page features may require javascript to run.