Skip to content Home All Stories Faculty Journalists 简体中文 हिन्दी Português Español Search for: Search Twitter Facebook YouTube RSS Arts & Culture Business & Economy Education & Society Environment Health Law & Politics Science & Technology International Trending Firearms Formula Shortage Roe v. Wade Ukraine Coronavirus Detroit Aging Featured Articles Ancient grains: Grant will help U-M researchers rethink Roman diets For a long time, researchers believed the diets of ancient people were nutritionally poor. Everyday ancient Mediterranean civilizations relied on a diet of grains and pulses (chickpeas, lentils and other members of the bean family). Read More Emulating impossible ‘unipolar’ laser pulses paves the way for processing quantum information A laser pulse that sidesteps the inherent symmetry of light waves could manipulate quantum information, potentially bringing us closer to room temperature quantum computing. The study, led by researchers at the University of Regensburg and the University of Michigan, could also accelerate conventional computing. Quantum computing has the potential to accelerate solutions to problems that Read more Read More U-M Peony Garden named after W. E. Upjohn 100 years after his original gift In 1922, Dr. W. E. Upjohn gave a gift of peonies to the University of Michigan that would become what is now the University of Michigan Nichols Arboretum Peony Garden. Upjohn’s significant gift has come full circle, as his family has come together on the 100th anniversary of his gift with a donation of $2 Read more Read More Flint water crisis: U-M study examines effects on academic outcomes Math achievement for school-age children in Flint decreased and the proportion of children with special needs increased as a result of the Michigan city’s water crisis during 2014-16, according to a new University of Michigan study. Those are the main conclusions from research that for the first time examined data concerning the effects of the Read more Read More Arts / Coronavirus U-M Museum of Natural History exhibit takes closer look at social, health inequities that fueled pandemic The University of Michigan Museum of Natural History’s latest exhibit, “Facing the Pandemic,” dissects the disparate impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on different communities and shares stories of personal experiences from early in the pandemic. Compiling data documenting these disparities and tapping into research on racial and economic public health implications, the exhibit shares important Read more Read More Baby formula shortages spell trouble for low-income families FACULTY Q&A Supply chain issues, recalls and inflation are making it nearly impossible for families to find infant formula on store shelves, with some states reporting more than 50% of products sold out. Kate Bauer, associate professor of nutritional sciences at the University of Michigan School of Public Health, discusses the impact of the shortage Read more Read More University-developed software that doubles 3D printing speeds hits the market Vibrations during 3D printing either slow down the process or warp the parts, but new software could enable manufacturers to keep up the speed without sacrificing accuracy. The product, invented at the University of Michigan and developed by the spinoff company Ulendo, launched at North America’s largest additive manufacturing conference, the RAPID + TCT Conference. Read more Read More Polarized Instagrammers fueled media coverage of NFL athlete activism News media covered the National Football League national anthem protests more heavily on their Instagram accounts when readers’ reactions to protest were more negative and more polarized, according to a University of Michigan study. This reader polarization on Instagram was triggered Sept. 22, 2017, when Donald Trump criticized the athletes who took a knee during Read more Read More Majority of Detroiters report stable, improved financial situation compared to year ago Two years into the pandemic, 72% of Detroit residents say their financial situation has stabilized or improved compared to a year ago, and there’s evidence that stimulus checks and the expanded Child Tax Credit played a role in reducing Detroiters’ experiences of economic hardship. However, people with household incomes of less than $30,000 were more Read more Read More U-M scientist part of group to reveal first image of the black hole at the heart of our galaxy Astronomers have unveiled the first image of the supermassive black hole at the center of our own Milky Way galaxy. The result provides overwhelming evidence that the object is indeed a black hole and yields valuable clues about the workings of such giants, which are thought to reside at the center of most galaxies. The Read more Read More Nanobiotics: Model predicts how nanoparticles interact with proteins With antibiotic-resistant infections on the rise and a continually morphing pandemic virus, it’s easy to see why researchers want to be able to design engineered nanoparticles that can shut down these infections. A new machine learning model that predicts interactions between nanoparticles and proteins, developed at the University of Michigan, brings us a step closer Read more Read More Livestock and dairying led to dramatic social changes in ancient Mongolia, U-M study shows The movement of herders and livestock into the eastern steppe is of great interest to researchers, but few scholars have linked the introduction of herds and horses to the rise of complex societies. Now, a new study in the journal PLOS ONE provides interdisciplinary support for connections between livestock dairying and the rise of social Read more Read More Planet Blue / Sustainability Nonlethal parasites reduce how much their wild hosts eat, leading to ecosystem effects Deer, caribou, bison and other similar animals are often infected by a range of internal parasites, including worms called helminths. Although many of these infections are not lethal, they can still impact health or animal behavior. For example, infected animals can eat less grass or other vegetation than they normally would. In an interesting twist, Read more Read More In the news Washington Post The good and bad about home medical tests New York Times What America needs is a liberalism that builds The Atlantic You are going to get COVID again...and again...and again More In The News 412 Maynard St. Ann Arbor, MI 48109-1399 Emailumichnews@umich.edu Phone734-764-7260 About Michigan News More News Arts Athletics Engaged Michigan Global Michigan Michigan Medicine Public Affairs Publications Michigan Today The University Record Office of the Vice President for Communications © 2022 The Regents of the University of Michigan