Skip to content University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Apply Giving Clemson News Search Topics OUR Clemson Impact and Innovation Student Success Faculty and Staff Achievements Alumni Accomplishments All Stories Clemson In The News Celebrating the Class of 2022 Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Divisions Office of the President Office of the Provost Advancement Clemson Computing Information Technology External Affairs Finance and Operations Inclusion and Equity Public Service and Agriculture Research Student Affairs Athletics For Journalists Our Experts Clemson.edu Resources University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Search for: Search Search Clemson News Search for: Search Office of the Provost; OUR Clemson University of Rutgers – Camden names John Griffin new Dean of Faculty of Arts and Sciences Share: Download image May 31, 2022May 31, 2022 Clemson’s Senior Associate Provost John Griffin Ph.D. was named the University of Rutgers – Camden’s new Dean of Faculty of Arts and Sciences, effective July 1. “This is a wonderful opportunity for John, and we are excited for this career achievement,” Executive Vice President of Academic Affairs and Provost Bob Jones said. “He has been a great teammate in his current role as Senior Associate Provost. He will be missed at Clemson, but we know he’ll do a remarkable job at Rutgers.” Effective July 1, 2022, Dr. John Griffin becomes the University of Rutgers – Camden’s Dean of Faculty of Arts and Sciences. In his new role, Griffin will lead the growth of Rutgers University–Camden’s largest academic unit, which enrolls 2,462 undergraduate and 561 graduate students in 25 bachelor’s degree-granting programs and in 24 master’s and Ph.D. programs. Prior to his years at Clemson, Griffin served as a fellow at Harvard Medical School and Harvard College. During his 16-year service at William & Mary, he founded the school’s interdisciplinary neuroscience program and became the divisional dean of natural and social sciences and the dean of undergraduate studies. Griffin earned his undergraduate degree from the University of North Carolina Wilmington. He earned a master’s degree in physiology in and a doctoral degree in physiology, both from The Ohio State University. Related Posts Dean’s Corner: May 2022 Bradley Awards recognize faculty, graduate student Creative Inquiry mentors Clemson’s COBRE Symposium features leading experts on genetics of human disease Clemson Libraries names Cromartie associate dean for organizational performance and inclusion Clemson News Clemson News is the go-to source for stories and news about the innovations, research and accomplishments of the Clemson Family. Contact Us Media Resources For Journalists Find an Expert Clemson Publications Clemson World Decipher IDEAS magazine Student Affairs Experience Magazine Orange. The Experience. Clemson TV Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022. All Rights Reserved. Clemson University Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson