Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Philanthropist and Entrepreneur Mohamed Mansour to Address Spring 2022 Graduates facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Campus Life Get the latest about what’s happening on NC State’s campus in Raleigh, North Carolina. Learn about upcoming events and guest speakers, cherished Wolfpack traditions, our many diverse clubs and societies, and student activities and activism from across the university. May 26, 2022 Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Many members of DELTA’s staff have worked tirelessly to make the course a success for incoming first-year and transfer students. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance May 25, 2022 A School of Fishes At a research center in the port town of Morehead City, 18 veterinary medicine students get hands-on experience operating on fish. May 25, 2022 NC State Names 42 Students to Park Scholarships Program Students in the university's 27th class of Park Scholars represent nine states and 20 North Carolina counties. May 23, 2022 Applications for Admission Soar as NC State Grows to Meet Workforce Needs Demand for an NC State degree is at an all-time high as the university prepares to welcome its largest and most diverse first-year class. May 19, 2022 The Gift of a Student’s Trust Monica Osburn is executive director of the Counseling Center, where thousands of students turn each year to find help with anxiety, depression and other problems. May 17, 2022 AnnE Ford’s Final Student Chronicle: Graduation After chronicling the NC State student experience for two years, AnnE Ford graduated in spring. May 16, 2022 ‘Whatever You Need, I’m There’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Emily and Alyssa Brought together by the saxophone section, best friends reminisce on their time in Carter-Finley Stadium. May 16, 2022 ‘We’re Stuck’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Niambé and Kourtni Best friends say 'goodbye' to NC State in the field where they first said 'hello' and started a lifelong friendship. May 16, 2022 ‘I Feel So Blessed’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Parker and Noah As part of our graduation video series, these elementary school friends reflect on how NC State brought them closer together. May 6, 2022 From Orientation to Graduation, Campus Community Centers Uplift Graduates Each spring, NC State’s campus community centers recognize and uplift the range of unique student identities during their own graduation celebrations. May 5, 2022 Wake STEM Early College High School Hosts May 9 Open House Take a tour of the school's new campus and learn about the innovative program that allows students to earn a high school diploma and college credit. May 4, 2022 NC State to hold Commencement Ceremony Saturday, May 7 North Carolina State University will confer degrees on more than 6,100 graduating students during its spring commencement ceremony on Saturday, May 7 at 9 a.m. in PNC Arena. Media coverage is invited. Credentialed media interested in attending should contact Mary Cole Pike at mcpike@ncsu.edu with any questions. NC State will confer 6,494 degrees during the ceremony,… May 4, 2022 The Hard Times and Good Life of Mohamed Mansour As an undergraduate in the 1960s, Mohamed Mansour struggled academically and financially. With the help of family, friends and supportive faculty, the young man went on to build one of Egypt's most successful businesses. Mansour shares his story at NC State's spring commencement ceremony. May 2, 2022 ‘Dare to Dream,’ Student Speaker Tells Fellow Graduates As the 2022 student commencement speaker, Anna Jump will encourage others to strive toward their goals and reach their dreams. Apr 22, 2022 Philanthropist and Entrepreneur Mohamed Mansour to Address Spring 2022 Graduates An NC State alumnus, Mansour will deliver the commencement address to the class of 2022 on Saturday, May 7. Posts navigation 1 2 … 159 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.