Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search The Whistle Breadcrumb Home May 23, 2022 Current issue Take it Outside Covid-19 Surveillance Testing Continues This Summer Post-Pandemic Workplaces: Take Control of Your Career Tech Celebrates Outstanding Faculty, Staff Members About The Whistle The Whistle is Georgia Tech's biweekly faculty/staff print news publication. It is printed and delivered to campus every other Monday throughout the year, with the exception of a hiatus during the second half of December. The Whistle is designed to enhance the experience of working at Georgia Tech by sharing information employees can use to perform their jobs better and connect to the greater Georgia Tech community. Types of content include: Institute-wide news and updates Campus life stories Employee awards and recognition Employee profiles Calendar of events Upcoming issues June 6 June 21 July 5 July 18 Aug. 1 Aug. 15 Aug. 29 Sept. 12 Sept. 26 Oct. 10 Oct. 24 Nov. 7 Nov. 21 Dec. 5 Contact us Editorial submissions should be sent to editor@comm.gatech.edu a minimum of 10 working days prior to desired publication. Georgia Tech Institute Communications Wardlaw Center 177 North Avenue, N.W. Atlanta, Georgia 30332-0181 Editor: Kristen Bailey kristen.bailey@comm.gatech.edu Georgia Tech is a unit of the University System of Georgia. Announcement Coronavirus Update As of April 10, 2020, due to the variability of departmental operating hours and much of campus working remotely, printing of The Whistle has been suspended until further notice. The Whistle will continue to publish online. View the latest campus updates in response to the coronavirus pandemic. Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education