Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette Interim dean of School of Dental Medicine appointed James McCarthy, environmentalist, dead at 75 News & Announcements Interim dean of School of Dental Medicine appointed News & Announcements Interim dean of School of Dental Medicine appointed Vicki Rosen has been at Harvard since 2001. Photo by Jan Reiss Vicki Rosen will assume her new role on Jan. 1 By Heather Denny HSDM Communications DateDecember 20, 2019December 19, 2019 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Trending Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Harvard to award seven honorary degrees Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers Vicki Rosen, professor and chair of developmental biology at Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM), has been appointed interim dean of the School, effective Jan. 1. A highly respected scientist in the field of bone and mineral research, Rosen’s career at HSDM spans nearly two decades. As chair of the Department of Developmental Biology, she oversees the clinical specialties of pediatric dentistry and orthodontics, as well as basic research, and is involved in the education of postdoctoral fellows and residents, students enrolled in the DMD program, and M.D. and Ph.D. candidates at Harvard Medical School (HMS). Additionally, she co-leads HSDM’s Ph.D. program in Biological Sciences in Dental Medicine and is a principal faculty member of the Harvard Stem Cell Institute. “I’m delighted that Vicki has agreed to lead HSDM while we continue to search for a new dean,” said George Q. Daley, dean of HMS. “As co-chair with me on the search committee, Vicki’s insights throughout the process have been invaluable. She is a trusted leader who is deeply committed to teaching and research and values the importance of both in the clinical mission of the School.” Rosen came to Harvard in 2001 after a serving as a scientist at the biotechnical company Genetics Institute, where she was a member of the research team that identified the bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) genes in 1988. Her laboratory at HSDM studies BMP family molecule signaling in musculoskeletal tissues with the goal of using knowledge gained to enhance tissue repair and regeneration. Rosen’s research has been supported by grants from the Musculoskeletal Transplant Foundation, the National Institute of Arthritis, Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases, the National Institutes of Health, and the U.S. Department of Defense among others. She has been honored with numerous awards, including the Kappa Delta Ann Donner Vaughan Award for outstanding orthopedic research, the Marshall Urist Award for excellence in tissue engineering research, the Raine Medical Research Foundation Medal, and most recently the William F. Neuman Award, the most prestigious award given by the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research. “I’m honored to serve as interim dean of HSDM,” Rosen said. “I look forward to working with our dedicated faculty and staff to support HSDM’s exceptional students, and continue the School’s commitment to excellence in education, research, and clinical care.” This past April, Bruce Donoff, dean of HSDM for 28 years, announced that he would step down from the position and transition to a role on the faculty. The search for a permanent dean of HSDM is underway, with a committee composed of faculty from across HSDM and HMS. Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Trending Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Harvard to award seven honorary degrees Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers Up Next News & Announcements James McCarthy, environmentalist, dead at 75 News & Announcements James McCarthy, environmentalist, dead at 75 Photo by Peter Raven