Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home All News Here's Every Columbia Class Day Speaker We Know (So Far) Commencement Here's Every Columbia Class Day Speaker We Know (So Far) With Commencement and class days less than a month away, here's who we can expect to speak to our graduates in celebration of their accomplishments. By Kelly Moffitt April 08, 2021 Photo by Eileen Barroso Columbia Commencement is right around the corner and with it comes the special school-specific celebrations known as Class Days. #RoarLions2021! During this year's Commencement ceremony, we'll hear from President Lee C. Bollinger on April 30 at 10:30 a.m. during a special live webcast to celebrate our graduates across the university. But schools across Columbia's campuses will also host ceremonies and special speakers of their own. We're keeping track of those Class Day speakers as they are announced in the running list below. We'll keep the list updated as we hear more! School of the Arts Ayad Akhtar Ayad Akhtar (SOA'02), Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright of Disgraced and author of Homeland Elegies, will be the speaker at the School of Art’s virtual recognition of graduates, which will take place online on Friday, April 30 at 12:30 pm. Read more. Barnard College Christiane Amanpour Award-winning journalist and CNN Chief International Anchor Christiane Amanpour will deliver the keynote address at this year's Barnard Commencement on Thursday, April 29. Read more. Columbia College Mario Van Peebles Mario Van Peebles (CC’78), an actor and director whose 40-year career has been characterized by a commitment to raising consciousness, will deliver the keynote for Columbia College’s Class Day on Wednesday, April 28. Read more. School of Engineering and Applied Science Rocco B. Commisso Rocco B. Commisso (SEAS'71, BUS'75), founder, chairman, and CEO of Mediacom Communications Corporation, will give the keynote address to Columbia Engineering students at Class Day on Thursday, April 29. Read more. School of General Studies Elegance Bratton Elegance Bratton (GS'14), an award-winning filmmaker, photographer, and author will give the keynote address at the School of General Studies Class Day ceremony, which will be held on Wednesday, April 28 at 11 a.m. Read more. School of International and Public Affairs Madeleine Albright and Eric Holder The former U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright (GSAS'76) and the former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder (CC'73, LAW'76) will be featured speakers at SIPA’s graduation ceremony on April 28. Read more. Columbia Law School Antony Blinken U.S. Secretary of State and alumnus Antony J. Blinken (LAW'88) will speak at Columbia Law School's 2021 graduation ceremony, which will take place on April 29. Read more. School of Professional Studies Letitia James New York State Attorney General Letitia James will be the keynote speaker for the 2021 SPS Graduation Ceremony on April 27. Read more. Teachers College Stacey Abrams Politician and voting rights champion Stacey Abrams will deliver the Teachers College Convocation address and receive the President’s Medal for Excellence on Thursday, April 29 at 8 pm EDT. Read more. Vagelos College of Physicians and Surgeons Aletha Maybank Aletha Maybank (MSPH'06), MD, MPH, is the Chief Health Equity Officer, Group Vice President, American Medical Association and will speak at the VP&S MD and PhD ceremony on May 19. Read more. Mailman School of Public Health Linda Thomas-Greenfield Linda Thomas-Greenfield, the newly appointed U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, will be the Columbia Mailman School’s 2021 Commencement Speaker. She will deliver the keynote address on April 29 and receive the School’s Visionary Leadership Award. Read more. School of Social Work Reuben Jonathan Miller Dr. Reuben Jonathan Miller, Assistant Professor at the University of Chicago Crown Family School of Social Work, Policy, and Practice, will be the 2021 commencement speaker on Friday, April 30. Read more. Looking for more information about Commencement 2021? Check out our website dedicated to the celebration of our graduates. Get Columbia News In Your Inbox Tags Commencement Columbia People News June 01, 2022 Eric Kandel, Nobel Prize Winner and University Professor, to Retire June 01, 2022 Faculty Named Fulbright U.S. Scholars, Other Institutional Milestones June 01, 2022 Columbia Physicist Tanya Zelevinsky Wins 2022 Brown Investigator Award June 01, 2022 Celebrating Pride Month 2022 at Columbia May 31, 2022 A Cultural Critic Publishes Her Second Memoir Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close