Skip to main content Toggle navigation Search Cornell University Cornell.edu Media Relations Search Cornell University Cornell Chronicle Topics Architecture & Design Arts & Humanities Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Computing & Information Sciences Energy, Environment & Sustainability Food & Agriculture Global Reach Health, Nutrition & Medicine Law, Government & Public Policy Life Sciences & Veterinary Medicine Physical Sciences & Engineering Social & Behavioral Sciences Coronavirus Campus & Community News & Events Public Engagement New York City Staff News Photos of the Day Big Red Sports Diversity In Memory Features NYS Impact Student Life Around Cornell All Stories In the News Expert Quotes Cornellians Credit: Provided Photograph of Scott J. Peters Scott J. Peters to conduct participatory action research with University of Minnesota By Matt Hayes May 9, 2022 Scott J. Peters, a prolific author, scholar-activist and Cornell University professor, has been appointed the School of Agriculture Endowed Chair in Agricultural Systems at the University of Minnesota. He will serve a two-year term conducting participatory action research into issues of justice, sovereignty, equity and sustainability in food and farming systems. Peters, professor of global development at Cornell’s College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, will be jointly appointed along with his academic collaborator Daniel J. O’Connell, Ph.D. ’11. Peters will conduct his research from Minnesota and the Cornell campus. As chairs, Peters and O'Connell will serve as a catalyst for innovation and progress on agricultural and rural issues within the College of Food, Agricultural and Natural Resource Sciences and the larger University of Minnesota, according to Helene Murray, executive director of the Minnesota Institute for Sustainable Agriculture (MSI). Peters and O’Connell will use participatory action research to illuminate, document, analyze and publicize core lessons from the MSI, a 35-year partnership between farmers, community activists, government and University of Minnesota faculty, staff, administrators and students. Read more in the CALS Newsroom. Matt Hayes is director for communications for Global Development in the College of Agriculture and Life Sciences. Business, Economics & Entrepreneurship Food & Agriculture Around Cornell Media Inquiries Media Contact Media Relations Office mediarelations@cornell.edu 607-255-6074 Get Cornell news delivered right to your inbox. Subscribe You might also like Agribusiness vies with democracy in California, book says Students capture Ithaca civil leaders’ oral histories in new book Gallery Heading × Previous Next Links About the Chronicle Media Relations Office Copyright Web Accessibility Assistance Contact Cornell Chronicle 312 College Ave Ithaca, NY 14850 607-255-4206 cunews@cornell.edu SUBSCRIBE Daily and weekly newsletters Feeds - RSS & JSON