WSU Cougar Head Logo Washington State University Give Apply Locations My WSU Give Apply Locations My WSU Close WSU Insider News and Information for Faculty, Staff, and the WSU Community Menu Close News News Categories Arts & Culture Awards & Achievements Benefits & Training Business & Economics Campus & Community Food & Agriculture Health & Medicine Politics & Society Reports & Updates Science & Technology University Affairs Veterinary Medicine Announcements Contact Us For Journalists Press Releases Tip Sheets COVID-19 Cannabis research Institutional Data Quick Facts Search Close WSU Insider will be back Tuesday May 27, 2022 The staff at WSU Insider hopes you make the most of your Memorial Day holiday. New postings will resume Tuesday. WSU experts: Washington monkeypox case cause for concern, not panic May 26, 2022 Washington state minorities die at younger ages from opioids than whites May 26, 2022 Good To Know Emergency response trainings taking place on Pullman campus May 30–June 2 May 27, 2022 WSU appoints Danielle Hess executive director for policy and governance May 27, 2022 Leadership changes in the Voiland College May 26, 2022 Partnership shares genetics for earlier ripening, grower-friendly sweet cherries May 25, 2022 Campus & Community WSU Insider will be back Tuesday May 27, 2022 The staff at WSU Insider hopes you make the most of your Memorial Day holiday. New postings will resume Tuesday. Balancing military service and pharmacy school May 23, 2022 In recognition of Military Appreciation Month, WSU wanted to highlight the accomplishments of one pharmacy student who put his degree on pause while he returned to active duty. Grant helps WSU system meet students’ fundamental needs May 10, 2022 The Washington Student Achievement Council grant is funding a variety of initiatives, including a new position that will work with WSU’s diverse student population to address food and housing insecurity. WSU Pullman implements inclement weather plan for Saturday commencement ceremonies May 5, 2022 The National Weather Service is calling for showers and possible thunderstorms throughout the day on Saturday with a 70% chance of precipitation. More Campus & Community News University Affairs Stacy Pearson retiring at end of 2022 May 26, 2022 During her tenure as VP for finance and administration and CFO, WSU turned a $30 million annual operating deficit into a nearly $30 million surplus in 2020. A national search for her replacement will be conducted. WSU appoints Danielle Hess executive director for policy and governance May 27, 2022 The university’s top lawyer is taking a new systemwide role and will be replaced as division chief by an assistant attorney general who has worked alongside her since 2015. Emergency response trainings taking place on Pullman campus May 30–June 2 May 27, 2022 Local law enforcement and fire departments will meet on the WSU Pullman campus to conduct a series of training exercises May 30–June 2. Leadership changes in the Voiland College May 26, 2022 The Voiland College of Engineering and Architecture announced three new directors for the upcoming school year. More University Affairs News WSU-related Podcasts From WSU: Food safety, WSU stories, science answers for kids, and more—listen to podcasts from Washington State University. About WSU: A selection of programs about Washington State, produced by alumni and friends. WSU Podcasts Benefits & Training Three dangerous email scams targeting WSU May 23, 2022 Online scammers continue to target university faculty, staff, and students. To make it easier to recognize the threats, Information Security Services describes the three most common email attacks. Pre-retirement seminar – May 2022 May 19, 2022 Are you considering retiring? Join a pre-retirement seminar to assist you in your planning. Topics include: Retiree Medical, Dental, and Life Insurance Enrollment Processes; Medicare and Social Security; Voluntary Employee’s Benefit Association Medical Expense Plan (VEBA MEP); Annual Leave Payment; Voluntary Investment Programs; Retirement Income, and; Retirement Supplementation for WSURP participants. These seminars are open […] More Benefits & Training News Awards & Achievements Akmal named 2022 outstanding department chair May 13, 2022 The Office of the Provost award recognized Tariq Akmal, chair of the Teaching and Learning Department, for his leadership and administrative acumen. Nine faculty selected to receive seed grants May 18, 2022 The Office of Research program provides support for junior faculty to develop research, scholarly, or creative programs that lead to sustained professional development and extramural funding. Professor joins National Academies Agriculture and Natural Resources Board May 17, 2022 Emeritus Professor John McNamara was recognized for his 33 years of service as an animal sciences researcher and educator at WSU. Librarian selected as Mellon Fellow May 17, 2022 Talea Anderson, a scholarly communication librarian for WSU Libraries, has been named an Andrew W. Mellon Fellow for Diversity, Inclusion, and Cultural Heritage through the Rare Book School at the University of Virginia. More Awards & Achievements Science & Technology WSU experts: Washington monkeypox case cause for concern, not panic May 26, 2022 The now-confirmed case of monkeypox in the state should raise awareness of the virus, but it will not spread as easily as COVID-19, according to WSU infectious disease experts. Some nomadic birds look for social cues to stop migrating May 25, 2022 A study of nomadic pine siskins, a type of finch often seen on backyard feeders, found that when male migratory siskins were paired with a settled male bird in captivity, they started exhibiting signs of ending migration too. Hydrogen production method opens up clean fuel possibilities May 23, 2022 A new energy-efficient way of producing hydrogen gas from ethanol and water has the potential to make clean hydrogen fuel a more viable alternative to gasoline for powering cars. Smart pacifier developed to monitor infant health in hospitals May 16, 2022 A wireless, bioelectronic pacifier could eliminate the need for invasive, twice‑daily blood draws to monitor babies’ electrolytes in Newborn Intensive Care Units. More Science & Technology News Food & Agriculture Partnership shares genetics for earlier ripening, grower-friendly sweet cherries May 25, 2022 Flavorful sweet cherries that ripen earlier and are more practical to grow are the goal of a new project led in part by WSU scientists. Grant to help increase wheat drought and heat resilience May 24, 2022 An effort to identify genes in spring wheat that would allow it to be more heat and drought resilient recently earned more than $2 million in funding. Marcia Ostrom named WSU Food Systems program director April 28, 2022 Ostrom took on directorship March 16. She is the founder of the Small Farms Program, which she led for 15 years, and a 21‑year WSU faculty member. Discovery reveals how fungi bypasses plant defenses, kills plants April 25, 2022 An insight into how the fungi that causes white mold rot avoids plant defenses could lead to a new tool to combat a pathogen that causes billions of dollars of crop loss worldwide. More Food & Agriculture News Health & Medicine Washington state minorities die at younger ages from opioids than whites May 26, 2022 Racial and ethnic minorities in Washington state are more likely to suffer fatal overdoses earlier in their lives than non-Hispanic white residents, according to a WSU IREACH study. College of Nursing adopts holistic admissions for BSN students May 24, 2022 The college has begun admitting students to the popular Bachelor of Science in Nursing program based in part on how well their experiences and skills align with the attributes of a nurse. Two WSU professors to manage all medical data for World Triathlon and IRONMAN May 24, 2022 Christopher Connolly, associate professor of Kinesiology, and Dr. W. Douglas B. Hiller, clinical professor in the Elson S. Floyd College of Medicine, aim to make the sport of triathlon safer than it’s ever been. Food insecurity risk related to diabetes later in life May 9, 2022 Young adults who were at risk of food insecurity had increased incidence of diabetes 10 years later, according to a WSU study. More Health & Medicine News Veterinary Medicine Researcher helps protect swans in lower Coeur d’Alene river basin May 16, 2022 Veterinarian Marcie Logsdon is part of an EPA‑led research team monitoring lead exposure of tundra swans by collecting their feces as well as sediment in the Lower Coeur d’Alene River Basin. Experts recommend steps to avoid spread of avian influenza May 13, 2022 Several cases of the H5N1 avian influenza virus in birds have been confirmed in Washington state, and animal disease experts at WSU are asking the public to take measures to avoid its spread. WSU veterinarians give basset hound a new life May 12, 2022 Bailey’s heart stopped beating for 18 minutes but, defying the odds, the emergency and critical care teams at the Veterinary Teaching Hospital didn’t give up. Young microbiology major stars in the lab April 29, 2022 The Students Targeted toward Advanced Research Studies program, or STARS, gives students like Natasha Puzon the opportunity to earn a doctorate along with their bachelor’s degree in as few as seven years. More Veterinary Medicine News Arts & Culture WSU Press’s new imprint focuses on general audiences May 2, 2022 Basalt Books aims to publish general interest titles for readers ranging from young children to adults—all with a connection to the Northwest. WSU selects ‘Braiding Sweetgrass’ as next common read for students April 28, 2022 The book features essays that convey scientific knowledge and indigenous lore as well as reflections on the relationship between humans and the land. Schnitzer Museum announces naming gift from Patricia W. and Samuel H. Smith April 26, 2022 The donation from the former university first couple funds the construction and equipment needed to create a special learning space within the home of WSU’s permanent art collection. Splatt table makes a splash April 19, 2022 WSU students designed an award-winning table with a radial arrangement of petals and pockets that creates a collaborative environment and facilitates group work on many scales. More Arts & Culture News Business & Economics Student venture teams’ ideas ring in success at annual business plan competition April 29, 2022 Solutions to improving life after COVID was a collective theme at WSU’s 2022 Business Plan Competition on Thursday, April 28. Ukrainian students tune in to WSU class on international tourism April 26, 2022 With their country at war, students from King Danylo University in western Ukraine face challenges unfathomable to most U.S. college students while working on a group project for an international tourism class at WSU. Alumni commitment launches Student-Athlete Entrepreneurship Initiative April 22, 2022 The initiative will provide programming for student-athletes in entrepreneurship and business education starting this summer. It is the result of a generous financial commitment from alumni Dan and Joanne Castles. Cash transfer proposal has downsides for child poverty April 12, 2022 A proposal to provide monthly payments to most U.S. parents, similar to those under the pandemic relief program, would likely worsen poverty for children of single mothers, a WSU study has found. More Business & Economics News Politics & Society Four‑year college students drink more, use marijuana less than community college peers May 18, 2022 Students at four‑year colleges and universities drink nearly twice as much alcohol as their peers in two‑year colleges, according to a survey of Seattle‑area college students. Service workers’ volatile shifts linked to high‑cost debt April 28, 2022 Time, more than money, appears to influence whether service employees end up turning to so‑called predatory lenders, a WSU‑led study found. Few Americans see race as key factor in environmental inequality April 13, 2022 Only 33% of U.S. households believe that Black people are more likely to experience environmental pollution and that this well-documented inequality is unfair, according to a WSU study. Chris Matthews to speak at Tom Foley documentary premiere April 12, 2022 The best-selling author and former host of MSNBC’s “Hardball” narrated the documentary, “The Gentleman Speaker: Conversations with Tom Foley,” which explores the Spokane-born legislator’s political legacy. More Politics & Society News Reports & Updates Celebrating our progress over the last year May 9, 2022 From resuming in‑person instruction and events to advancing OneWSU planning and installing our inaugural chancellor of the Pullman campus—a lot has changed for the university community. Executive Budget Council – Listening and Feedback Sessions April 7, 2022 While the last few years have been strained in the wake of COVID‑19 budget trimming, WSU is on a positive trajectory thanks to the support of our donors and state legislators. WSU responds to bomb threats against historically Black universities February 4, 2022 Washington State University is committed to continue working toward building a society where equity, respect, and justice are a reality for all. WSU experiencing anticipated surge in COVID‑19 cases January 18, 2022 We are asking each of you to do your part to help keep our communities healthy. More Reports & Updates FOR WSU CONTRIBUTORS Content guidelines WSU Insider Guidelines Press Releases Guidelines Announcements Guidelines Events Guidelines Submission Information Insider Submission Press Release Submission WSU Announcements Submission WSU Events Submission Additional Resources WSU Brand Guidelines WSU Editorial Style Guide WSU Podcasts Social Media Directory WSU News & Media Relations PO Box 641227, Pullman, WA 99164-1227 509-335-3581 wsunews@wsu.edu WSU Cougar Head Logo © Washington State University 2021 Access Policies MyWSU Follow WSU