Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Krispy Kreme Challenge Meets $2 Million Commitment facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Service and Community Krispy Kreme Challenge Meets $2 Million Commitment May 9, 2022 Rachel Montesinos Jorro With the support of countless runners, students, staff and volunteers, the Krispy Kreme Challenge (K2C) has met its $2 million commitment to UNC Children’s Hospital. In 2015, K2C program directors presented a proceeds check to Raleigh’s Rex Hospital and pledged to raise an additional $1 million in support of the hospital and North Carolina children and families. Now, Park Scholars are celebrating an achievement nearly two decades in the making. Dr. Stephanie Davis, chair of the Department of Pediatrics at UNC Children’s Hospital, and nurses were invited to NC State in honor of the milestone. “We are so grateful to the Park Scholars and to all those who participated in the Krispy Kreme Challenge,” Davis says. “Their generous support of UNC Children’s and the NC State Park Scholars Children’s Specialty Clinic in Raleigh has had a significant impact on the health of hundreds of children and families across North Carolina.” “We are so grateful to the Park Scholars and to all those who participated in the Krispy Kreme Challenge” Through a global pandemic, the 18-year NC State tradition persisted. Though the race has taken place virtually for the past two years, K2C organizers say the community has continued to support the challenge to meet the commitment to UNC Children’s Hospital. “What began in 2004 as a dare between friends has transformed into the No. 1 NC State student tradition and an event that draws participants from all across the United States as well as the world,” says Megan Cislo, K2C director of public relations and merchandise. “Yet 18 years later, our mission remains the same: to provide for the health care and well-being of children from all across North Carolina.” Over 85,000 patients have been treated at the NC State Park Scholars Children’s Specialty Clinic since it opened in 2019. Named after the scholars who began the race in 2004, the clinic offers a wide range of medical care for children from across North Carolina. The Krispy Kreme Challenge remains UNC Children’s Hospital’s largest unrestricted donor. As the challenge garners support year after year, Park Scholars press on to new goals and next year’s race. Categories: Bulletin Board Service and Community Tags: campus community community service krispy kreme challenge park scholars View Comments 0 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * More From NC State News NC State Names 42 Students to Park Scholarships Program Wake STEM Early College High School Hosts May 9 Open House The Hard Times and Good Life of Mohamed Mansour Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.