Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community Celebrating Mother’s Day, ’Cuse Style! Thursday, May 5, 2022, By Jen Maser Share alumnifaculty and staffFamilyMother's Dayphoto galleryStudents Moms who work here, moms who went here, moms who support our students in pursuing their dreams…we celebrate all of them here at Syracuse! In honor of Mother’s Day, we asked members of the campus community to share some of their favorite mom-themed photos. Thank you to those who shared and to all the moms, everywhere, for all they do. It’s a generational thing: Courtnie Lewis ’22 and her mom Kerri ’82 take a selfie with Otto in the stadium. Elliot Salas ’24, a student in the College of Engineering and Computer Science (ECS), shared this sweet photo of his mom, Lorena, showing her Syracuse pride. Kathleen Joyce, assistant dean for student recruitment in ECS, says her mom, Kathy, is one of Syracuse’s biggest fans—she rarely misses a game! “Thank you, mom, for your love, guidance, sacrifice and support all these years,” Kathleen writes. “My life, career and life-changing experiences at Syracuse University would not be possible without you. I love you.” Carri Prue, director of communications for advancement and external affairs, shared a loving moment from her daughter’s recent First Communion. From left to right are Christian (age 9), Kayla (age 7) and Brady (age 5). Congratulations to Kayla and her proud mom! Courtney Albiker, executive assistant in Student Experience, enjoys a sunny day in Colorado with her daughter, Addison. Kevin Shults G’20, assistant director of career development in the College of Law, gives a shout-out to his wife, Brianna, director of InclusiveU at the Lawrence B. Taishoff Center for Inclusive Higher Education, pictured here with their 2-year-old little Slice, Everett, and Otto the Orange! Tehnaya Brewer ’23, a student in the College of Arts and Sciences, shared this picture-perfect moment of her mom, Patricia. Mom of three Amanda Lalonde ’23, a student in the College of Arts and Sciences, poses with sons—and aspiring martial artists—Tyler, Noah and Jack (left to right). Jonathan Hoster ’02, G’11, undergraduate recruitment specialist in ECS, says his mom, Marion, is as big of a Syracuse fan as he is. We’ll cheers to that! Author Jen Maser Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.