Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community Speaking Up About Stuttering Wednesday, February 19, 2020, By Jennifer Russo Share School of Education Michael Wilson, Haley Evans and David Haas after the MBS screening in January It was standing room only in the Peter Graham Scholarly Commons on the night of Jan. 23. Over 100 people, including Syracuse University students, families and medical professionals, were there to see the screening of a new documentary film about a common but often misunderstood speech disorder: stuttering. According to the National Stuttering Association, about five percent of children will stutter, and one percent of the general population will continue to stutter throughout their lives. Though the severity varies widely, it’s estimated that there are over three million stutterers in the United States alone. Haley Evans, a graduate student in the inclusive education (grades 1-6) master’s program in the School of Education, is one of them. Haley’s advocacy and connections were the catalyst for the successful campus screening event of “My Beautiful Stutter,” and opened the door for others to share their experiences with stuttering without fear of stigma. The documentary follows five kids who stutter, and after having suffered bullying and stigmatization, find friendship and solace in an arts program. The Jan. 23 event screened the emotional film and followed it with a discussion panel featuring Haley and members of the community who stutter. Growing up in Cazenovia, New York, Haley did not know anybody else who stuttered. As supportive as her family and friends were, she says that they could not truly understand what it means to live with the stress of having a stutter. “Fighting stuttering can be very lonely,” she says, “especially when you are trying to hide it so you don’t get judged.” For Haley, connecting her communities at home and at Syracuse University with the support she receives from the local chapter of the National Stuttering Association has been a fulfilling part of bringing the film to campus. “Last summer I was scrolling through Instagram, and there was an ad for a documentary on stuttering. They were looking for people’s experiences,” Haley recalls. “I sent back a blurb of and let them know that I would love to help with anything they need.” Haley continued to follow the social media account for the documentary through its development, and in the fall the film crew reached out to see if she would facilitate a screening in Syracuse. “I thought only close friends and family would come,” she says. But Haley cast a wide net and drew the support of professors Beth Ferri and Christy Ashby in the School of Education. She also assembled a discussion panel, including David Haas, co-leader of the Syracuse chapter of the National Stuttering Association, who is a local writer, historian and blogger, and Michael Wilson, D.D.S., owner of a multi-location dental practice. “The amount of support from the school, and Professor Ferri especially, was overwhelming. I am very proud to be a part of a school that wanted to showcase this film as much as I did,” Haley says. “The faculty and staff were very helpful with showing me the steps to bring a film like this on campus.” Haley says that all of her experiences at Syracuse have been positive, and taking on a large event like this was no exception. “My first meeting at Syracuse University was with Christy Ashby. She was so patient and understanding of my stutter, which was a wonderful introduction to the campus community,” she recalls. “That impression has stayed with me. My peers and other professors have showed me their compassion and understanding. I’ve felt supported every step of the way through my journey here.” Haley intends to teach in a special education setting, but also earn a doctorate in special education. Her dream job is to serve as a director of special education for a whole school district. Ready to begin her career as an educator, Haley offers this important lesson, a line from the film: “we are all human beings who want to be heard, and that means letting everyone have as much time as they need to speak…” Author Jennifer Russo Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.