Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All Posts in #alumni Campus & Community Syracuse University to Hold First Reception for Post-Traditional Alumni Wednesday, March 23, 2022, By Lyndy McLaughlin The College of Professional Studies is partnering with the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs, the Martin J. Whitman School of Management, the D’Aniello Institute for Veterans and Military Families at Syracuse University and Syracuse University in DC for… Campus & Community The Present Family Legacy of Love: A Forever Orange Story Tuesday, March 22, 2022, By Eileen Korey Just a few days after Jane Werner Present ’56 died, students at Syracuse University received a gift from her … in the form of a reading by New York Times bestselling author Nana Kwame Adjei-Brenyah G’16, the Jane and Daniel… Campus & Community Arts and Sciences Faculty, Students and Alumni Take Fresh Look at Key Curricular Requirements Friday, March 11, 2022, By Diana Napolitano Think how much life has changed in the past few decades. Technology alone has evolved exponentially—flip phones and Myspace, anyone? To ensure the College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) curriculum is reflecting and responding to this social and cultural transformation,… Campus & Community A $2 Million Gift to the John A. Lally Athletics Complex to Strengthen the Student-Athlete Experience Monday, March 7, 2022, By Eileen Korey Michael Bill ’58 was a top student-athlete at Syracuse University, a center on the highly ranked football team that went to the Cotton Bowl. After graduation, he lost touch with his alma mater, but never lost the Orange spirit. In… Business & Economy Stocks and Finance Immersion Offers A&S | Maxwell Students a Window Into Finance Friday, March 4, 2022, By Dan Bernardi When Jehan Muhialdain ’22 moved to the United States from Iraq five years ago, one of the major differences she noticed in her new country was the focus put on financial literacy and wealth management. She says living in Iraq,… Health & Society Design Professor Co-Authors Book on Design Thinking for a Regenerative Future Wednesday, March 2, 2022, By Erica Blust A new book about the importance of design thinking for a regenerative future grew from a conversation at Syracuse University between two like-minded visionaries. In September 2018, world-renowned futurist and thinker David Houle ’69, a graduate of the College of… Health & Society From Orange to Black and Gold: Athletic Advising Certificate Helps Ella Simkins ’20, G’21 Land at Army Lax Wednesday, March 2, 2022, By Martin Walls Ella Simkins ’20, G’21 had big plans for the 2020 women’s lacrosse season. A standout defender, in her junior year she had started all 21 games, recorded career highs in caused turnovers and draw controls, and ranked third on the… STEM Alumnus Endows Undergraduate Research Award to Honor Big Thinkers Thursday, February 17, 2022, By Eileen Korey A newly endowed fund set up to support undergraduate interdisciplinary research recognizes the importance of connecting diverse fields of thought in generating new ideas. It also reflects the experiences and passions of William Hrushesky ’69 who graduated cum laude with… Media, Law & Policy College of Law Adds 4 New Board of Advisors Members Thursday, February 17, 2022, By Robert Conrad Syracuse University College of Law has appointed four new Board of Advisors members: Peter Carmen L’91, Prashanth (PJ) Jayachandran G’98, L’98, Benita Miller L’96 and David Wales L’95. These appointments reflect the heft of the College of Law’s alumni and… Campus & Community Catching Up With Quentin Brunson ’12, G’13 and Fiancée Ashleigh Mann, AKA ‘The Adele Couple’ Wednesday, February 9, 2022, By Jen Maser The whole world was watching this past November when Syracuse alumnus Quentin Brunson ’12, G’13 sprung a surprise proposal on his girlfriend of seven years, Ashleigh Mann, during singer-songwriter Adele’s “One Night Only” concert special on CBS. After Brunson confirmed… 1234567 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.