Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Find: A to Z Index People Directory Search Brown.edu Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Search form Search About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory News from Brown 2015 GELT grants awarded News from Brown Main menu Featured Events News For Journalists Featured Events Search News Main menu Featured Events News For Journalists Featured Events More News and Events The year in stories December 20, 2017 Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship plans for dedicated new home on Thayer Street December 18, 2017 Brown University admits 738 early decision applicants December 14, 2017 Lilli Hornig December 11, 2017 The fall semester in photos — 27 snapshots at Brown December 22, 2017 Tweet Next: When preparation is everything January 22, 2015 2015 GELT grants awarded January 23, 2015 Media contact: Courtney Coelho 401-863-7287 Recipients of the second round of Global Experiential Learning and Teaching grants have been announced. The GELT program, unveiled in the summer of 2014, provides support for faculty to embed an education abroad component into an on-campus course. PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — The Office of Global Engagement at Brown has announced recipients of the second round of its Global Experiential Learning and Teaching (GELT) grant program, unveiled in the summer of 2014. The GELT program provides support for faculty to embed an education abroad component into an on-campus course. It is funded in partnership with the offices of Academic Development and Diversity, Dean of the College, Dean of the Faculty, and the School of Professional Studies. Grant recipients receive funds for advanced seminars or capstone courses at the undergraduate or graduate level that include international travel prior to, during, or at the end of the course. Regular members of the Brown faculty who have an established relationship with colleagues at a university, cultural/historical organization, NGO, for-profit, or government entity abroad are eligible for the award. There are two levels: Phase One: Curriculum Development grants provide up to $4,000 for the development of a new course with a travel abroad component, and Phase Two: Curriculum Implementation grants provide up to $35,000 to support travel, accommodations, and related costs for one faculty member and up to 12 Brown students to a destination that complements the topic studied during the semester. More information about the program is available online. The inaugural round of grants was announced in August 2014. The Office of Global Engagement announced the 2015 Global Experiential Learning and Teaching (GELT) grant competition in November 2014. Four GELT grants will support Phase Two: Curriculum Implementation in 2015 and 2016: James Green, professor of history and Portuguese and Brazilian Studies, for the course “Brazil Under Vargas: Shaping a Nation,” and travel to Brazil in summer 2015; Amy Nunn, assistant professor of public health, and Tim Flannigan, professor of medicine, for the course “Local & Global Community Health Disparities,” and summer 2015 travel to Ghana and Brazil; Dietrich Neuman, professor for the history of modern architecture and urbanism, for the course “Berlin: Architecture, Politics and Memory,” and spring 2015 travel to Germany; and Alberto Saal, associate professor of Earth, environmental and planetary sciences, for the fall 2015 course “Global Tectonics,” and travel to Argentina in January 2016. Three GELT grants will support Phase One: Curriculum Development in the 2015-16 academic year: Jin Li, professor of education, for a course being developed with the Chinese University of Hong Kong on international and comparative human development; Harold Roth, professor of religious studies and East Asian studies, for the course “Philosophy and Practice of Japanese Rinzai Zen Buddhism”; and Sarah Tobin, associate director of Middle East studies, for the course “Anthropology of Displacement and Refugees in the Middle East” with a focus on Jordan. Note to Editors: Editors: Brown University has a fiber link television studio available for domestic and international live and taped interviews, and maintains an ISDN line for radio interviews. For more information, call (401) 863-2476. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Social Media @ Brown Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Giving to Brown Giving to Brown