Skip to main content Tulane Home Tulane Home Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... Search Information for... Close Search Tulane Search form Search this site Search search tulane.edu search news only Tulane A-Z Close Tulane Home Tulane Home Home Tulane News News Tulanian Magazine Events Experts Press Releases On Good Authority Podcast Request Info Visit Apply Give to Tulane Alumni Information For... News HomeHome Inline CSS for Tulane News Articles Students' Invention Aids Safe Childbirth August 17, 2009 11:45 AM | Keith Brannon kbrannon@tulane.edu Print to PDF A group of Tulane bioengineering graduates and a professor have applied for a patent for an inexpensive device that could prevent millions of infection-related neonatal deaths in developing countries. The small device, called SafeSnip, is designed for use in regions like Southeast Asia and Africa where home births are common and infants are susceptible to infections caused by unsanitary birth conditions. SafeSnip is a three-inch disposable, plastic clamp that cuts, seals and disinfects an umbilical cord in one step. "You take the umbilical cord in one hand and just clamp down on it," says William Kethman, who applied for the patent with fellow 2008 School of Science and Engineering graduates Bryan Molter, Stephanie Roberts and Mark Young, as well as David Rice, associate professor of biomedical engineering. After the cord is severed, SafeSnip breaks in two, leaving one half of the device firmly clamped onto the baby's umbilical cord to seal the wound while the other is discarded. The students developed the device in Rice's class as part of a course project and won $5,000 in funding from the Wal-Mart Foundation through the Clinton Global Initiative University; they also got $500 from the National Collegiate Inventors and Innovators Alliance. The students hope to start field-testing the device once the patent is approved. The patenting process could last a few years, Rice says. He and his former students have reached out to companies to see if they would be interested in mass-producing the device for further testing. SafeSnip would retail for under $1. Rice has tapped current student Michael Liu to shepherd the SafeSnip project going forward. Kethman is now a second-year medical student at Tulane and Roberts is in her second year at Tulane Law School. "That's the biggest obstacle to this project, that we're grad school students now," Kethman says. The patent filing was done through the Tulane Office of Technology Transfer and Business Development. Link to Tulane Home Page Tulane Home Tulane University 6823 St. Charles Avenue New Orleans, LA 70118 504-865-5000 Maps & Directions News Give to Tulane Medical Center Contact Us Jobs at Tulane Email MyTulane Gibson Online Copyright Privacy Like Tulane University on Instagram Follow Tulane on Twitter Like Tulane University on Facebook Watch Tulane University YouTube channel Follow Tulane University on LinkedIn © 2022 Tulane University