Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community Commencement 2022: Here’s What You Need to Know Tuesday, May 10, 2022, By Kathleen Haley Share alumniCommencementCommencement 2022convocationsStudents Syracuse University’s Commencement exercises will take place Sunday, May 15, at the stadium. Graduates, it’s time to celebrate your accomplishments! Invite your family and friends, don your cap and gown, and meet you at the stadium for Commencement 2022. Syracuse University’s Commencement exercises will be held Sunday, May 15, beginning with the degree candidates’ procession at 9:30 a.m. David Muir, anchor and managing editor of “ABC World News Tonight with David Muir,” will deliver the Commencement address. School and college convocations and Commencement will also be livestreamed. Visit the Commencement website May 12-15 to view the ceremonies online. The College of Law held its Commencement exercises during a ceremony Friday, May 6. At Sunday’s Commencement, Syracuse University will confer bachelor’s, master’s, doctoral, juris doctor and master of laws degrees. The number of students expected to graduate is 6,468. Syracuse University Chancellor and President Kent Syverud will address the graduates and confer degrees. Vice Chancellor, Provost and Chief Academic Officer Gretchen Ritter will give the welcome. The University will award honorary degrees to four distinguished recipients: Nina V. Fedoroff ’66, a molecular biologist who has contributed to the development of modern techniques used to study and modify plants and an Emeritus Evan Pugh Professor of the Pennsylvania State University; Thomas Magnanti ’67, former dean of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) School of Engineering and Institute Professor and professor of operations research at the MIT Sloan School of Management; Howard “Howie” Phanstiel ’70, G’71, past chairman and CEO of PacifiCare Health Systems and a Syracuse University Life Trustee; and Gloria Somolekae G’94, senior research fellow and head of the governance unit for the Botswana Institute for Development Policy Analysis. Bea González G’04, former vice president for community engagement, special assistant to the chancellor and dean of University College, will serve as mace bearer. Tadodaho Sidney Hill, of the Haudenosaunee Confederacy, will give the ceremonial opening. The Rev. Dr. Brian E. Konkol, dean of Hendricks Chapel, will give the invocation. Ryan McNaughton ’96, president of the Syracuse University Alumni Association, will offer a welcome to the newest alumni. Student Marshals and Scholars Representing the Class of 2022, Ava Breitbeck and Morgan Storino are the senior class marshals and will lead graduates during the ceremony. Originally from Cicero, New York, Breitbeck, a member of the Renée Crown University Honors Program, is majoring in physics and political science in the College of Arts and Sciences and Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs. Storino, who is from Easton, Pennsylvania, is a chemistry and citizenship and civic engagement major in the College of Arts and Sciences and Maxwell School, and is a member of the Renée Crown University Honors Programs. Along with the all-University marshals, 23 student marshals represent the 13 schools and colleges at Syracuse University. The marshals will lead the degree candidates of their respective schools or colleges. Twelve seniors have been designated as Syracuse University Scholars. This is the highest undergraduate honor the University bestows. University Scholar Ghael Fobes Mora was selected as the student speaker on behalf of the Class of 2022. Retiring faculty members who have been recommended to receive the title of emeritus by the University Senate to the Syracuse University Board of Trustees will be recognized by Jamie L. Winders, associate provost for faculty affairs. The University Marshal is Shiu-Kai Chin ’75, G’78, G’86, Laura J. and L. Douglas Meredith Professor for Teaching Excellence and professor of electrical engineering and computer science in the College of Engineering and Computer Science. Associate University Marshal is James K. Duah-Agyeman G’99, director of Multicultural Affairs. 2022 Syracuse University graduates celebrate with Otto on campus. Also during the ceremonies, Army and Air Force ROTC cadets will present the colors. The Syracuse University Wind Ensemble will perform under the direction of conductor Bradley P. Ethington. The national anthem will be sung by John Bentley ’22, College of Visual and Performing Arts, and Jada Crawford ’22, College of Visual and Performing Arts, will sing the alma mater. 2022 Graduate GIF Stickers Continue the celebration on social media: Add to your Instagram or Snapchat stories with digital swag. Search for the latest Syracuse University GIF sticker suite on either platform using the keyword “#SUGrad22.” Check out the rest of @SyracuseU’s GIF sticker offerings, made for any occasion, by searching “Syracuse University.” Welcome to the Orange Alumni Family Graduates can check out programming for new alumni as part of #SUGrad22 SUccess Week—an exclusive welcome to the Orange alumni family. Visit the Alumni Association website for in-person and virtual events. More information about Commencement 2022 can be found at commencement.syr.edu. Author Kathleen Haley Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi More In Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Preparing Students for a Life of Success Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.