Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program NC State’s Jane Hoppin Wins Holshouser Award facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Faculty and Staff NC State’s Jane Hoppin Wins Holshouser Award For her work examining the impact of environmental exposures on human health, Hoppin is one of two UNC System employees to be honored. February 25, 2022 University Communications In response to the emerging health concern about GenX and other PFAS (per and polyfluoroalkyl substances) in the drinking water in Wilmington and Fayetteville, North Carolina, Hoppin created the GenX Exposure Study. Biological Sciences Professor Jane Hoppin has been honored with the 2021 Gov. James E. Holshouser Jr. Award for Excellence in Public Service. The award honors faculty who exemplify the University of North Carolina System’s commitment to service and community engagement. Arwin D. Smallwood of North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University also received the award. Hoppin is an internationally-renowned environmental epidemiologist focusing on human health effects associated with environmental exposures, with an emphasis on respiratory disease associated with pesticides. “The complexities of establishing trust in communities to which you are an outsider while managing to conduct high-quality research that has the ability to affect not only the subject community, but communities globally, are challenges with which most of us have not contended,” says NC State Chancellor Randy Woodson. “Dr. Hoppin has embraced these challenges expertly, conducted groundbreaking research in environmental epidemiology, established important research and training collaborations across North Carolina, and continues to improve the quality of life for underserved communities through meaningful public service.” Hoppin was instrumental in establishing the longstanding Agricultural Health Study (AHS), which is funded by the National Cancer Institute and the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences. Since 1993, the AHS has enrolled more than 89,000 farmers and their spouses in Iowa and North Carolina, led to hundreds of publications identifying associations between pesticide exposures and human disorders, and helped to inform and facilitate safer practices to protect agricultural communities. In response to the emerging health concern about GenX and other PFAS (per and polyfluoroalkyl substances) in the drinking water in Wilmington and Fayetteville, North Carolina, in 2017, Hoppin created the GenX Exposure Study. She quickly mobilized her team to respond to the news of the contamination in a watershed that affects millions of North Carolinians. She secured rapid response funding from the National Institutes of Health and contributed substantially to the successful NIEHS funding of NC State’s Superfund Center, which is dedicated to understanding PFAS toxicity and improving its remediation. To date, she has recruited hundreds of citizens, collecting surveys and blood samples, and will help answer their pressing questions about their exposures and long-term health effects. Hoppin is an NC State University Faculty Scholar, a member of the graduate program in toxicology and environmental health sciences, and deputy director of the university’s Center for Human Health and the Environment. Hoppin received her bachelor of science in environmental toxicology from the University of California, Davis. She earned a master’s degree in environmental health sciences and an Sc.D. in environmental health and epidemiology from the Harvard School of Public Health. She holds adjunct appointments at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and the Brody School of Medicine at East Carolina University. Categories: Awards and Honors Designing Healthy and Resilient Societies Faculty and Staff Research and Innovation We Are the Wolfpack Wolfpack at Work Tags: Department of Biological Sciences faculty and staff faculty awards GenX PFAS research news View Comments 0 total responses Leave a Response Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. All fields are required. Comment * Name * Email * More From NC State News A School of Fishes Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance Applications for Admission Soar as NC State Grows to Meet Workforce Needs Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.