Skip to content News Search All news UC Berkeley Research Subcategories in Research Technology & engineering Business & economics Humanities Mind & body Politics & society Science & environment All Research Top Stories in Research Science & environment Civil War diary inspires biography of pioneering botanist Top Stories in Research Mind & body Like it or not, we’re prone to adopt popular beliefs, even fake ones Top Stories in Research Humanities How preserving a country’s languages can lead to decolonization People Subcategories in People Profiles Awards Milestones All People Top Stories in People Profiles Civil War diary inspires biography of pioneering botanist Top Stories in People Awards Nanobiotechnologist selected for inaugural Philomathia Prize Top Stories in People Profiles UC Berkeley graduate Alberto Ibarra: ‘Succeed through the thorns’ Campus & community Subcategories in Campus & community Campus news Work life Events at Berkeley All Campus & community Top Stories in Campus & community Campus news Name the Berkeley falcon chicks: It’s a boy and a girl for Annie and Alden Top Stories in Campus & community Campus news State leader visits Berkeley, praises novel partnership to help the unhoused Top Stories in Campus & community Events at Berkeley Scholars on Roman Vishniac's photos of Jewish life before WWII Arts & culture Performing arts Literature Film Visual arts Events calendar All arts & culture Visual arts Berkeley Talks: Scholars on Roman Vishniac’s photos of Jewish life before WWII After pandemic hiatus, Native American language survival workshop returns to campus Literature English professor on climate fiction: Powerful, terrifying — and inspiring Opinion Berkeley Blog Voices All opinion Berkeley Blog Striking a balance between climate despair and magical solutions Andrew Campbell: What does being energy independent really mean? Berkeley Blog Combat homelessness by expanding state-funded housing programs MENU Campus & community, Campus news, Events at Berkeley In rollicking ceremony, UC Berkeley graduates cap a challenging college education By Will Kane| May 14, 2022May 17, 2022 Tweet Reddit Email Print May 14, 2022May 17, 2022 Will Kane Saturday’s commencement — a jubilant celebration under clear blue skies — was the first commencement exercise held at California Memorial Stadium since 2019. (UC Berkeley photo by Keegan Houser) In her four years at UC Berkeley, Lucky Simsuangco, 22, said she faced a lot of unexpected turmoil: Thick wildfire smoke canceled classes and darkened skies, regional power shut-offs interrupted classes, and a worldwide pandemic threatened serious illness and moved university life online. But on Saturday, at Berkeley’s first commencement ceremony in historic California Memorial Stadium since 2019, Simsuangco sat with friends under clear blue skies, wearing her cap and gown and savoring the final moments of her college experience. “I can’t really believe it,” Simsuangco said. “Our class had to go through so much.” That disbelief permeated the giddy ceremony, which drew the largest attendance in recent history for Berkeley’s annual all-campus commencement. Graduates could hardly sit still, and speakers thrilled at the turnout and energy. Even parents, grandparents and other supporters in the stands performed a rippling, rollicking, spontaneous group wave with their arms outstretched as roughly 7,500 graduates filed in. “I felt like Steph Curry going on the court for the playoffs,” said Lukas Aksena, 23, who is graduating with a degree in political science. “Everyone around me was just cheering so loud.” This slideshow requires JavaScript. Chancellor Carol Christ told graduates to recognize that their “resilience is a reflection of our campus as a whole.” “Ever since the pandemic’s early days, we have seen a remarkable coming together of students, faculty, staff and alumni in support of each other and our university,” she said. “That resilience, those connections, that power of the campus community, are the reasons why our university is emerging from these difficult days stronger than ever — and I believe the same will hold true for you.” This month, an estimated 6,398 students are projected to receive bachelor’s degrees, 2,474 to earn master’s degrees, 702 to get doctorates, and 646 to receive law degrees, according to the University Registrar’s office. At one point during Saturday’s ceremony, friends and family filled the stadium with a rollicking wave celebration. (UC Berkeley photo by Keegan Houser) Erick Chacon, 30, was among the graduates struggling to process the past two years at Berkeley. They left him lacking typical classroom experiences, in-person connections with professors and peers, and participation in a wide array of on-campus events. Yet, he’s still getting his degree in political economy and has a new job in venture capital. The first in his family to attend college, Chacon had worked for seven years before attending community college in Marin County and then transferring to Berkeley. Adding to his amazement at graduating this semester, he said he was “thrown out of, like, 13 different schools growing up, before I ended up here,” he said, sitting on the football field before the ceremony. “I’ve been so focused on getting here; I process things after they happen. It’ll probably hit me next week.” Keynote speaker Randy Schekman, a Berkeley professor and 2013 winner of the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine, reminded graduates of the power of their public education. “The University of California is … the most important institution of higher education in the country,” he said of the 10-campus state system. “The private universities that cater to privilege and entitlement can’t hold a candle to you and what you have accomplished to reach this milestone.” “We win if your mind is stretched, but not filled,” keynote speaker Randy Schekman told graduates. (UC Berkeley photo by Keegan Houser) Schekman added that he hoped the graduates would use their Berkeley education throughout the rest of their lives to “question the truth of common wisdom and ask for the evidence.” “We win if your mind is stretched, but not filled,” he said, reiterating that graduates must continue to be students, to keep learning. Also recognized during the ceremony were two state legislators — Sen. Nancy Skinner (D-Berkeley) and Assembly Member Phil Ting (D-San Francisco) — for their work to overturn a campus enrollment freeze. William Rogers, CEO of Goodwill San Francisco Bay, was also honored with the 2022 Peter E. Haas Public Service Award. Take in the sights and sounds from Saturday’s commencement ceremony. (UC Berkeley video by Stephen McNally) Asked to pick his most memorable moment on campus, Aksena, the political science graduate, pointed to his classmates. “They’ve started nonprofits, startups, researched and studied amazing things, like data science or so many other majors,” he said. “I’m being vague because there’s so many different things to include.” “If you come here and you don’t want to do more than you did before,” he added, “then you didn’t really experience Berkeley.” Tweet Reddit Email Print Topics: graduation2022, students Top Stories Name the Berkeley falcon chicks: It’s a boy... Civil War diary inspires biography of pioneering... Like it or not, we’re prone to adopt... Related Stories State leader visits Berkeley, praises novel... Scholars on Roman Vishniac's photos of Jewish... Trending now Politics & societySuburban sprawl cancels carbon-footprint savings of dense urban cores Campus & communityIn rollicking ceremony, UC Berkeley graduates cap a challenging college education Politics & societyWhy are there so many Filipino nurses in the U.S.? VIDEOS PODCASTS Skydiving salamanders live in world’s... Berkeley Talks: An update on Public Service Loan... You Might Also Like Berkeley Engineering returns to in-person graduation... Take in the sights and sounds from Saturday’s... Chancellor Christ to graduates: This is a time of... Celebrating Jewish American Heritage Month at UC Berkeley Browse All news Topics A-Z Follow Us View UCBerkeley’s profile on Facebook View UCBerkeley’s profile on Twitter View UCBerkeleyOfficial’s profile on Instagram View UCZAXKyvvIV4uU4YvP5dmrmA’s profile on YouTube View UCBerkeley’s profile on Medium About About us Contact the news team Enroll in our online media training Find an Expert Subscribe Sign up for email news alerts Subscribe to The Berkeleyan, our weekly email newsletter Copyright © 2022 UC Regents; all rights reserved Accessibility Nondiscrimination Privacy Search All news UC Berkeley Research Technology & engineering Business & economics Humanities Mind & body Politics & society Science & environment All research People Profiles Awards Milestones All people Campus & community Campus news Work life Events at Berkeley All campus & community Arts & culture Performing arts Visual arts Film Literature All arts & culture Opinion Berkeley Blog Voices All opinion Send to Email Address Your Name Your Email Address Cancel Post was not sent - check your email addresses! Email check failed, please try again Sorry, your blog cannot share posts by email. Latest COVID-19 information and resources. [X] Close