Skip to main content calendar subscribe Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds YaleNews Explore Topics Alumni Arts & Humanities Business Campus & Community Environment Health & Medicine International Law Science & Technology Social Sciences In Focus In Memoriam Search form Search Science & Technology Stories Alumnus with exceptional mathematical promise wins Hertz Fellowship May 31, 2022 A Yale alumnus working toward a Ph.D. in mathematics at MIT is among the 33 doctoral students awarded Hertz Fellowships. T cell warriors need their R & R May 27, 2022 Without rest and maintenance, T cells can die and leave their hosts more susceptible to pathogens, Yale scientists report. ‘Transformative’ effects of mass gatherings like Burning Man are lasting May 27, 2022 Powerful social experiences at mass gatherings can help people feel more connected to humanity and willing to help distant strangers, a new study finds. Real-time placement odds can smooth the school choice process May 25, 2022 A new study finds that a software platform that provides warnings about the placement odds at top schools can dramatically reduce non-placements. Taking dinosaurs’ temperature with a new biomarker May 25, 2022 A Yale-led research team has established that the earliest dinosaurs and pterosaurs had exceptionally high metabolic rates and were warm-blooded animals. Single cell analysis tech helps generate unprecedented maps of disease May 23, 2022 Yale researchers across disciplines are profiling cells that exist together in both healthy and diseased organs to shed light on diseases and development. Omicron variant caused more excess deaths in Massachusetts than Delta May 20, 2022 In all adult age groups, the Omicron variant caused more excess deaths in just eight weeks than Delta caused in its entire 23-week outbreak, a new study shows. Peabody summer camps — register now! May 20, 2022 Does your middle-schooler love to explore the world around them? Give them an unforgettable experience in the Yale Peabody Museum’s exciting summer program. An intelligent quantum sensor May 20, 2022 A Yale-led team has built a new sensor — the size of about 1/1000 of the cross-section of a human hair — that can tap into the quantum properties of electrons. Research roundup Insights & Outcomes: Nanowire networks and a galactic collision May 20, 2022 This month we find intriguing answers to scientific questions about underground nanowire networks, distant galaxies that lack dark matter, and more. Show More Articles Search Science & Technology Yale Browse Archives Contact Us For the Media It’s Your Yale Apply to Yale Give to Yale Managed by the Office of Public Affairs & Communications Copyright © 2022 Yale University · All rights reserved · Privacy policy · Accessibility at Yale Facebook Twitter Instagram RSS Feeds Yale on Instagram