Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Homepage facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Homepage Top Stories Published on May 25, 2022 A School of Fishes At a research center in the port town of Morehead City, 18 veterinary medicine students get hands-on experience operating on fish. Published on May 25, 2022 NC State Names 42 Students to Park Scholarships Program Students in the university’s 27th class of Park Scholars represent nine states and 20 North Carolina counties. Published on May 23, 2022 Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance The soft robots demonstrate a concept called “physical intelligence.” Published on May 23, 2022 Applications for Admission Soar as NC State Grows to Meet Workforce Needs Demand for an NC State degree is at an all-time high as the university prepares to welcome its largest and most diverse first-year class. Published on May 19, 2022 The Gift of a Student’s Trust Monica Osburn is executive director of the Counseling Center, where thousands of students turn each year to find help with anxiety, depression and other problems. Published on May 18, 2022 NC State Ranked One of Nation's Elite Technology Transfer Universities NC State ranks second among all U.S. public universities in research technology transfer and commercialization according to a comprehensive analysis. Published on May 18, 2022 Researchers Use Galaxy as a ‘Cosmic Telescope’ to Study Heart of the Young Universe A new instrument and powerful telescope have let researchers peer into galactic nurseries. The Abstract NC State’s dedicated research blog explains why the discoveries we make here matter throughout the everyday world. Explore the Abstract Getting a Better View of Landslide Risk With LiDAR How Universal Design Can Inform Inclusive Fashion Why Some Fabrics Shed More Microfibers Than Others Exploring the Origins of Molecular Paleontology In the News May 31, 2022 Arab News Winners of Prince Faisal bin Fahad Award for Sports Research announced May 30, 2022 WFLA Sugary bug killer might breed cockroaches that won’t take the bait, study says May 31, 2022 E&E News Southwest megadrought pushes hydropower to the brink Follow NC State News Sign up to receive daily email digests of the latest news and success stories from across NC State University — and learn how we Think and Do. Email Submit Connect with us on social Facebook Facebook Twitter Twitter Instagram Instagram LinkedIn LinkedIn Faculty and Staff Meet the many faces of NC State, and share their most recent accomplishments in teaching, research and outreach. See more stories A School of Fishes Twisted Soft Robots Navigate Mazes Without Human Or Computer Guidance Applications for Admission Soar as NC State Grows to Meet Workforce Needs Where’s the Wolf? At NC State’s Global Courtyard Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.