Skip to main content Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Sections All News Arts & Culture Business & Economy Campus & Community Health & Society Media, Law & Policy STEM Veterans | Alumni The Peel Athletics Home About Faculty Experts For The Media Videos Topics Alumni Events Faculty Library Research Students All Topics Contact Submit Search for: Campus & Community Campus & Community Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59 was only 5 years old when he developed a work ethic that would last a lifetime. The Syracuse University graduate and longtime member of the Board of Trustees first demonstrated his entrepreneurial spirit as a… Campus & Community COVID-19 Update: Effective Wednesday, June 1, Masking Level Returns to Yellow Friday, May 27, 2022, By News Staff Dear Students, Families, Faculty and Staff: Recently the Onondaga County Health Department has reported a notable decline in new COVID infections and hospitalizations across the Central New York region. This positive trend, combined with significantly reduced population density on our… Campus & Community Preparing Students for a Life of Success Friday, May 27, 2022, By Caroline K. Reff Selecting a major and choosing a career path don’t have to be daunting experiences. While some students come to Syracuse University’s College of Arts and Sciences (A&S) or the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs (Maxwell) ready to declare… Campus & Community Eugene ‘Gene’ Anderson to Depart Syracuse, Tapped to Lead University of Pittsburgh’s Business School Thursday, May 26, 2022, By News Staff Eugene “Gene” Anderson, dean of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management since 2017, today announced he will conclude his time at Syracuse University next month. After more than five years at the Whitman School, Anderson will return home to… Campus & Community Digital Badges at Syracuse University: Recognizing and Authenticating Microcredential Moments in Higher Education Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Lyndy McLaughlin As higher education continues to anticipate and react to the needs of an evolving workforce, new programs and various modalities have been introduced to provide just-in-time learning opportunities that meet the needs of hard and soft skills sought by employers…. Campus & Community 5 Things to Know About the JMA Wireless Dome Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Jen Maser Home to countless athletic competitions, five Orange teams, some of the most memorable moments in collegiate sports history and cherished University traditions. Host to Commencement, iconic performers, family-friendly entertainment, high school athletic events and graduations for local districts, and even… Campus & Community 5th Round of CUSE Grants Awards $510,000 to 31 Projects Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Diane Stirling The Office of Research is funding 31 CUSE grant projects this year in the fifth round of annual internal grants. The Collaboration for Unprecedented Success and Excellence (CUSE grants) program is dedicated to growing the Universitywide research enterprise, enhancing interdisciplinary… Campus & Community Syracuse University Libraries’ New Website Improves User Experience, Accessibility Wednesday, May 25, 2022, By Cristina Hatem Syracuse University Libraries has redesigned its website to remain current, improve users’ experience with a more easily navigated and intuitive way to find information, improve accessibility and align with University branding. The Libraries incorporated survey feedback, anecdotal comments from users, a… Campus & Community University Hosts Syracuse Fire Department Graduation Ceremony Tuesday, May 24, 2022, By News Staff The National Veterans Resource Center at the Daniel and Gayle D’Aniello Building (NVRC) recently hosted a proud moment for the City of Syracuse: the graduation ceremony of 24 probationary firefighters. The firefighters from the Syracuse Fire Department Regional Training Academy were… Campus & Community Architecture Student Named Honors Thesis Prize Award Recipient Tuesday, May 24, 2022, By Julie Sharkey Dara H. Jin ’22, a fifth-year student in the School of Architecture, was announced as a Class of 2022 Honors Thesis Prize recipient during the Renée Crown University Honors Program Convocation, held on Friday, May 13. As the most challenging… 12345 Recent VPA Graduate Paves the Way to Develop His First Feature Film Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Ellen de Graffenreid Remembering Emeritus Trustee Harry E. Goetzmann Jr. ’59: Serial Entrepreneur Who Served His Alma Mater, the Nation and the World Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Eileen Korey Falk Professor Offers Advice on Helping Children Process School Shootings Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Keith Kobland PTSD Awareness Month: What can we do to help? Tuesday, May 31, 2022, By Vanessa Marquette Graduate Students Bring Physics to Local Classrooms With Outreach Program Friday, May 27, 2022, By Dan Bernardi Subscribe to SU Today If you need help with your subscription, contact sunews@syr.edu. Connect With Us Twitter Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn Social Media Directory For the Media Find an Expert Follow @SyracuseUNews Facebook Instagram Youtube LinkedIn @SyracuseU @SyracuseUNews @SUCampus Social Media Directory Accessibility Privacy Campus Status Syracuse.edu © 2022 Syracuse University News. All Rights Reserved.