Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Focused on the Future facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Students May 19, 2022 The Gift of a Student’s Trust Monica Osburn is executive director of the Counseling Center, where thousands of students turn each year to find help with anxiety, depression and other problems. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology May 17, 2022 AnnE Ford’s Final Student Chronicle: Graduation After chronicling the NC State student experience for two years, AnnE Ford graduated in spring. May 16, 2022 ‘Whatever You Need, I’m There’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Emily and Alyssa Brought together by the saxophone section, best friends reminisce on their time in Carter-Finley Stadium. May 16, 2022 ‘We’re Stuck’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Niambé and Kourtni Best friends say 'goodbye' to NC State in the field where they first said 'hello' and started a lifelong friendship. May 16, 2022 ‘I Feel So Blessed’ — Meet #NCState22 Best Friends Parker and Noah As part of our graduation video series, these elementary school friends reflect on how NC State brought them closer together. May 6, 2022 From Orientation to Graduation, Campus Community Centers Uplift Graduates Each spring, NC State’s campus community centers recognize and uplift the range of unique student identities during their own graduation celebrations. May 2, 2022 ‘Dare to Dream,’ Student Speaker Tells Fellow Graduates As the 2022 student commencement speaker, Anna Jump will encourage others to strive toward their goals and reach their dreams. Apr 19, 2022 Find Your Home in a Living and Learning Village In 15 Living and Learning Villages, students harness their enthusiasm for special topics. Apr 18, 2022 Conversation and Coffee, International Style NC State’s Osher Lifelong Learning Institute pairs international students with conversation partners to help them improve their English. Apr 12, 2022 NC State Students Place 3rd in Stanford Design Challenge Industrial Design Senior Lindsey Dotson is part of a winning team that designed an in-home mold detection device to help people maintain healthy homes. Apr 12, 2022 Campus in Bloom: Look Back at the Spring 2022 Semester There's nothing better than watching NC State's campus blossom in the spring. Relive some of our favorite moments from the semester so far. Feb 28, 2022 WISE Village Raises Voices, Representation The Women in Science and Engineering (WISE) Village works to bridge the gender gap in STEM programs at NC State. Feb 24, 2022 Relaunching the NC State Website Learn about the latest version of the NC State core website — ncsu.edu — and how to navigate its new menus and layout. Dec 13, 2021 Graduating With a Global Perspective For many NC State students, graduation symbolizes their commitment to taking risks, understanding different cultures and expanding their horizons. Dec 13, 2021 Focused on the Future Meet December 2021 graduates who have made the most of every opportunity at NC State and are ready to explore their next chapter. Posts navigation 1 2 … 46 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.