Skip to main content Stanford University Stanford Report Search this site Submit Search Menu Students Faculty Staff About Search this site Submit Search Staff Stanford News Service Stanford scholars on gun violence Why are so many people killed each year by guns? What gun laws need to be changed? How can Second Amendment rights be balanced with firearm safety? Stanford scholars have been studying these issues from a range of perspectives, including law, politics, economics and medicine. Here are some of their findings. 5 days ago University Communications Qualitative data released from 2021 DEI survey Findings include firsthand accounts of discriminatory, harassing, and other harmful behavior that are consistent with previously released quantitative data. Beginning this summer, a series of focus groups and community forums will be held to discuss the survey results and next steps. 5 days ago Stanford Law School Law and race after George Floyd At the two-year anniversary of George Floyd’s death, Rick Banks, director of the Center for Racial Justice, and David Sklansky, co-director of the Criminal Justice Center, look at how policing, racism, and the law have changed. 6 days ago School of Engineering Sustainability on the horizon In this episode of <em>The Future of Everything</em>, Stanford’s Chris Field says the world has made more progress than we might have expected a decade ago and that we can still pave a way to a sustainable future. 6 days ago Current Policies With certain exceptions, face coverings are no longer required but continue to be strongly recommended on-site, regardless of vaccination status. Face coverings are required in classrooms; however, individuals may remove face coverings while speaking. Weekly asymptomatic surveillance testing for vaccinated faculty, staff and postdoctoral scholars and for fully vaccinated and boosted students (undergraduates, graduate students and students enrolled in professional degree programs) has been suspended. Following international travel, all must comply with campus access restrictions and testing requirements. More Campus Resources Health Alerts COVID-19 Workplace Guide Cardinal at Work Faculty Staff Help Center Parking & Transportation University IT Manager Toolkit Stanford Careers Axess Working at Stanford Stanford Transportation The ins and outs of Vanpooling 2 weeks ago Fitness and Recreation Classic Camp Cardinal in-person sports camps are returning this summer 4 weeks ago University IT Device compliance enforcement resumes May 5 4 weeks ago Staff Events More Staff Events Thriving at Stanford School of Medicine How to fit mental health hygiene into your already busy life 3 weeks ago Stanford News Service Ten campus spots where you can take a break and de-stress 4 weeks ago Cardinal at Work Cardinal at Work observes Mental Health Awareness Month 4 weeks ago From the President & Provost Exciting news about our new school: A message from President Marc Tessier-Lavigne 4 weeks ago Welcome to spring quarter 2 months ago President’s remarks to the Faculty Senate on invasion of Ukraine 3 months ago More More to Explore School of Medicine Stanford biomedical ethicists among panelists updating law on definition of death 6 days ago Graduate School of Business A pricing paradox: We want digital but will pay more for analog 2 weeks ago Graduate School of Business Speaking up without freaking out: how to tackle communication anxiety 2 weeks ago Stanford Report News and information for the Stanford community. COVID-19 info & resources Re-Approaching Stanford Contact Stanford News Subscribe to Stanford Report Stanford Report is sent automatically to all Stanford faculty, staff and students. Others are invited to subscribe to Stanford Report. Stanford University Stanford Home Maps & Directions Search Stanford Emergency Info Terms of Use Privacy Copyright Trademarks Non-Discrimination Accessibility © Stanford University. Stanford, California 94305.