Skip to content The Harvard Gazette Search for: Arts & Humanities Business & Economy Campus & Community Commencement 2022 The Coronavirus Update Events Health & Medicine National & World Affairs News & Announcements Photography The Quest for Racial Justice Science & Technology The Solutions Series News + About Accessibility Athletics News and Scores For Media & Journalists Privacy Policy Trademark The Daily Gazette Sign up for daily emails to get the latest Harvard news. Harvard University National & World Affairs World Taken out of context GenSci Lab scholars urge researchers to take care crafting definitions of sex as language can make its way into law, public policy World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Health & Medicine Health Don’t let latest COVID surge overshadow progress, says Hanage Epidemiologist explains how to stay on guard against subvariants, noting role of protective measures in transition to new pandemic phase Health Researchers find sleep benefit in higher dose of melatonin Supplements show promise in small study of older adults Featured National & World Affairs Health & Medicine Arts & Humanities Science & Technology Business & Economy Campus & Community Experience Commencement 2019 © 2022 The President and Fellows of Harvard College The Harvard Gazette School of Dental Medicine expands patient care, services Baby, it’s cold outside Campus & Community School of Dental Medicine expands patient care, services Campus & Community School of Dental Medicine expands patient care, services Harvard Dental Center-Cambridge will open under the direction of the Harvard School of Dental Medicine. Kris Snibbe/Harvard file photo Takes over University Health Services’ dental practice at 114 Mount Auburn in February By Heather Denny HSDM Communications DateDecember 9, 2020December 10, 2020 Share Email Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Trending Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Harvard to award seven honorary degrees Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers In September, Harvard University Health Services (HUHS) announced that its dental service would close at the end of the year due to financial pressures amplified by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Harvard School of Dental Medicine (HSDM) announced today that it will reopen the dental practice in February. HSDM is the only Harvard graduate school to offer direct patient care and already offers dental services at the Harvard Dental Center in the Longwood Medical Area. The Harvard Dental Center-Cambridge, located at 114 Mount Auburn St., will serve dental patients of the former HUHS practice and also welcome new patients from the community. A number of providers and staff previously employed by the HUHS Dental Service are expected to continue working in the practice. “The HUHS Dental Service was well-regarded by its patients and served many members of the Harvard community, including employees, students, and retirees, for more than 50 years. I am delighted that we will be able to offer oral health care to these patients and welcome new patients in Cambridge and the surrounding communities,” said School of Dental Medicine Dean William V. Giannobile. “This is a unique opportunity for us to fill a critical gap in care at a time when continuity of oral health care and maintaining overall health is so vital. It is also very much at the heart of HSDM’s clinical and educational mission.” The scope of dental services offered at the Mount Auburn location will offer specialties such as oral surgery, implant dentistry, orthodontics, prosthodontics, and other specialties not previously available at the HUHS clinic. The clinic will also accept additional insurance plans, broadening access to the greater Cambridge community. “This is a unique opportunity for us to fill a critical gap in care at a time when continuity of oral health care and maintaining overall health is so vital.” — William V. Giannobile, dean of HSDM “We are incredibly grateful to our dental patients, past and present, who have trusted us with their care for over 50 years, and we are thrilled that HSDM will continue to provide exemplary services to our community,” said Giang T. Nguyen, executive director of HUHS. The practice will offer HSDM residents — dentists in Advanced Graduate Education programs — additional opportunities for patient care and specialty training in Cambridge under faculty supervision. “With a proud history of more than 150 years of excellence in dental education, I’m confident that we are well-positioned to bring a high level of care and expertise that has always been associated with our School and its mission. Our faculty, staff and residents have shown great dedication in providing care in our practices throughout the pandemic, and we look forward to this exciting new endeavor,” Giannobile said. Related Making global health a collaborative effort Dental School students take lessons to heart and into the field in Costa Rica New dean for School of Dental Medicine Alumnus William Giannobile coming from University of Michigan School of Dentistry By phone and online, the care continues Health Services director Giang Nguyen talks about adding remote services and new resources for Harvard community Editor's Picks Campus Triple the joy Photographers capture the festive rites and poignant moments as three classes celebrate Commencement World New breed of American leader Some were elected; others lead fight for gun control, racial equity, environment. All embrace social media, their own True North. Campus A call to public service Merrick Garland tells grads to get involved, warns democracy in peril, cites Capitol attack, rise in mass shootings, stifling of voting rights Trending Ardern’s forceful reminder: Democracies can die Harvard to award seven honorary degrees Humans hot, sweaty, natural-born runners Pursuit of joy starts with truth, Wu tells graduates Seven alumni elected to the Board of Overseers Up Next Campus & Community Baby, it’s cold outside Campus & Community Baby, it’s cold outside Unsplash