Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Chancellor’s Holiday Open House Is Dec. 10 facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Author: University Communications May 23, 2022 Applications for Admission Soar as NC State Grows to Meet Workforce Needs Demand for an NC State degree is at an all-time high as the university prepares to welcome its largest and most diverse first-year class. May 3, 2022 NC State Partners with Sandia National Laboratories The Sandia University Partnership Network is a collaboration between the science and engineering research lab and 27 schools to shape the future of engineering for national security. May 3, 2022 Zero Waste Wolfpack Wins GameDay Recycling Challenge Award Waste diversion efforts at NC State home football games earn recognition. Apr 7, 2022 Anne Auten on the Importance of Women’s Literature The University Honors and Scholars Program recently spoke the English lecturer and TH!NK faculty fellow, about her honors seminar and women's literature. Apr 7, 2022 Rob Smart Steps Down as CHHE Director A national search will be conducted to identify a new director of NC State's Center for Human Health and the Environment. Mar 31, 2022 Libraries, College of Education Partner to Support Students in Need The Transformational Scholarships Program provides scholarships to promising high school students from Eastern North Carolina who will return to the region to teach after graduating from NC State. Mar 17, 2022 NC State Honors 10 Faculty Members with Outstanding Research Award, Induction into Research Leadership Academy Get to know the newest recipients of the university's top award for research and mentorship. Mar 15, 2022 NC State Employs New Platform to Expand Engagement and Public Service Collaboratory captures the numerous ways faculty and staff partner with external organizations to tackle important public issues. Feb 25, 2022 NC State’s Jane Hoppin Wins Holshouser Award For her work examining the impact of environmental exposures on human health, Hoppin is one of two UNC System employees to be honored. Feb 7, 2022 ‘We Share a Kinship’: Black Alumni Society Fosters Connection, Community Learn about the Black Alumni Society, a tight-knit group that links past, present and future Black NC State students. Feb 1, 2022 Soft Materials Are an Interdisciplinary Game-Changer At NC State, transformative research into soft material occurs in numerous colleges and departments. Dec 22, 2021 2021 in Review Despite the obvious challenges, this was a year of triumphs for our Wolfpack. Look back on 21 of our biggest stories from 2021. Dec 13, 2021 Focused on the Future Meet December 2021 graduates who have made the most of every opportunity at NC State and are ready to explore their next chapter. Dec 3, 2021 College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Dean Richard Linton to Step Down College of Agriculture and Life Sciences Dean Richard Linton has announced that he will step down from his position at NC State in mid-February 2022 to become the president of Kansas State. Dec 1, 2021 Chancellor’s Holiday Open House Is Dec. 10 Chancellor Randy Woodson and his wife Susan invite all NC State faculty and staff to The Point for their annual Holiday Open House. Posts navigation 1 2 … 186 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.