Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast Accessibility Options: Skip to Content Skip to Search Skip to footer Office of Disability Services Request Assistance 305-284-2374 Display: Default High Contrast University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Apply About UM Schools School of Architecture College of Arts & Sciences Miami Herbert Business School School of Communication School of Education & Human Development College of Engineering School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine & Atmospheric Science Miller School of Medicine Frost School of Music School of Nursing & Health Studies The Graduate School Division of Continuing & International Education Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Search Tools People Search Class Search CaneLink myUM Workday Blackboard Employment Privacy Statement University of Miami Simple text logo for University of Miami Search UM (Mobile) Apply Apply About UM Schools Alumni Roadmap COVID-19 Information Academics Admissions Student Life Research UHealth Athletics Tools Popular Links University of Miami Division of University Communications Office of Media Relations Miller School of Medicine Communications Hurricane Sports UM Media Experts Emergency Preparedness Home Search News@TheU Explore Topics Latest Headlines Academics Arts and Humanities People and Community Research University All Topics A to Z Related Links Subscribe to Daily Newsletter Special Reports Social Networks For the Media Find University Experts Contact Us Life@TheU News and Info People and Culture Benefits and Discounts More Life@TheU Topics About Life@the U Connect and Share Contact Life@theU Events All Events Faculty and Staff Events Student Events TheU Creates (Arts and Culture Events) Undergraduate Students: Important Dates and Deadlines Submit an Event Miami Magazine News@TheU Life@TheU Events Miami Magazine More News Sites Admissions Alumni College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering DCIE Frost School of Music Miami Herbert Business School Miller School of Medicine School of Architecture School of Communication School of Education and Human Development School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science School of Nursing and Health Studies The Graduate School Student Affairs Search News@TheU Explore Topics Latest Headlines Academics Arts and Humanities People and Community Research University All Topics A to Z Related Links Subscribe to Daily Newsletter Special Reports Social Networks For the Media Find University Experts Contact Us Life@TheU News and Info People and Culture Benefits and Discounts More Life@TheU Topics About Life@the U Connect and Share Contact Life@theU Events All Events Faculty and Staff Events Student Events TheU Creates (Arts and Culture Events) Undergraduate Students: Important Dates and Deadlines Submit an Event Miami Magazine More News Sites Admissions Alumni College of Arts and Sciences College of Engineering DCIE Frost School of Music Miami Herbert Business School Miller School of Medicine School of Architecture School of Communication School of Education and Human Development School of Law Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science School of Nursing and Health Studies The Graduate School Student Affairs News Home Stories 2022 May Special Report: 2022 Commencement AAA Academics People and Community Special Report: 2022 Commencement By News@TheU 05-06-2022 Special Report: 2022 Commencement By News@TheU 05-06-2022 University of Miami commencement exercises will take place from May 11 through May 13 at the Watsco Center. Seven ceremonies will celebrate more than 4,200 graduates from the University’s 12 schools and colleges. Follow our complete coverage in our special report. Commencement Information Ceremony dates and times Venue information Directions and parking information Livestream and virtual slides School/College receptions Frequently asked questions Commencement Highlights May 13, 2022: Speakers celebrated undergraduates’ abilities to excel despite challenges — During undergraduate commencement exercises on Friday, nearly every speaker noted how the students contended with and endured the difficulties of the pandemic, which equipped them with resilience to forge new careers and chase dreams with renewed passion. May 12, 2022: Graduate commencement ceremonies celebrate more than 1,300 students — During Thursday’s two commencement exercises, Ricardo Lagos, a former Chilean president, encouraged graduates to strengthen democracy and respect the dignity of all humans, while Catherine Lhamon, with the U.S. Department of Education, implored students to “make the choice to stand for others and for equity.” May 11, 2022: ‘Let them test you, but don’t let them defeat you’ — Adalberto “Bert” Jordan, U.S. circuit judge and double University of Miami alumnus, urged School of Law graduates to persevere during his commencement address at the Wednesday afternoon ceremony at the Watsco Center. May 11, 2022: Miller School of Medicine graduates met challenges with resilience — At a commencement ceremony at the Watsco Center on the Coral Gables Campus, more than 190 medical school graduates were lauded for their achievements. “Through all these challenges, you stayed engaged and on course with adaptability and resilience,” President Julio Frenk said. May 11, 2022: Student-athletes earn degrees at spring Commencement — During commencement exercises this week at the University of Miami, 69 student-athletes will earn both graduate and undergraduate degrees. May 10, 2022: Senior Mwambo ceremony celebrates Black graduates — The Office of Multicultural Student Affairs hosted the annual rite of passage on Tuesday and honored graduating Black students as they prepare for the next chapter in their lives. May 9, 2022: Well-prepared, value-driven grads are entering a dynamic job market — Graduates looking to enter the workforce can tap resources at the University’s Toppel Career Center, along with the academic skills they have honed, to help them find that first job. May 6, 2022: Employee-graduates encourage colleagues to ‘go for it!’ — The University of Miami provides opportunities for faculty and staff members to advance their education by offering tuition remission, an employee benefit that covers the full or partial cost of taking undergraduate or graduate classes. May 3, 2022: LGBTQ+ graduates encouraged to live their ‘true colors’ — Student and alumni speakers shared pearls of wisdom at the eighth annual Lavender Celebration on Monday evening, when achievements of graduates and award recipients who have enhanced the University’s commitment to inclusion were spotlighted. May 2, 2022: Distinguished speakers to share wisdom with Class of 2022 — A group of extraordinary, international and national, thought leaders will share their advice with the Class of 2022 during the University of Miami commencement ceremonies at the Watsco Center next week. Student Stories Medical sociologist strives to give a voice to the powerless Newly minted Ph.D. Oshea Johnson has studied the impact of mass incarceration on the health of inmates and their significant others. He will soon begin a two-year postdoc as an epidemic intelligence service officer with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and hopes his research will serve as a platform for reform in the criminal legal and penal systems. Senior works to destigmatize disabilities, on and off campus Ian Malesiewski, who graduates this week with a degree in neuroscience, spent his free time working with leaders at the University, in the local school district, and across the country to improve opportunities for anyone living with a disability. Neuroscience graduate sets her sights on a future in research Eboni Arnold credits self-advocacy, mentorship, and early exposure to her career path for her undergraduate success. She now looks forward to new challenges from the doctoral program she has chosen to pursue and someday hopes to be a role model. Student looks forward to making inroads in health care Senior David Oliver hopes to use his biomedical engineering degree to improve the health care arena for all patients. The University ‘has taught me about patience, diligence, and being a consistent leader’ Landon Coles, former Student Government president, acknowledged how a combination of mentorship and challenges helped to develop him into the confident leader he is today. First generation Pakistani American is Miami Law student commencement speaker After graduating cum laude and sitting for the bar exam, Anoosheh Shaikh, first-generation Pakistani American and the first in her family to attend law school, will clerk for Federal Magistrate Judge Embry Kidd in Orlando. Second-generation 'Cane graduates from Miami Law David Prieto graduates having served as a judicial intern to Judge Adalberto Jordan on the United States 11th Circuit Court of Appeals and Chief Magistrate Judge John O'Sullivan. He will be working as an associate for León Cosgrove in Coral Gables. Double-major graduates set to digitally map the future Seniors Erica Goldfinger and Eliza Stuart are both graduating with honors in geography and sustainable development for their acumen in geospatial mapping, despite their divergent interests in how to use the tool. Nursing makes graduate feel empowered and connected to his mom Sammy Kumar transformed his childhood loss into his life’s mission and is heading to the National Children’s Hospital for work. Architecture graduate hopes to build a future in New York After receiving four job offers, Katya Garcia, a Foote Fellow, will begin work for the Robert A.M. Stern Architects firm in New York City. Stepping outside of her comfort zone, student seizes opportunities to excel Camila Treptow, a Miami native and aspiring doctor, discovers new passions and career goals in just two years at the University of Miami. She quickly learned how keeping an open mind and taking chances could lead to success. Graduate ‘passionate about community service and education reform’ Charis Pitter’s passions fueled her leadership experience as a student, and she reflects on her time as an undergraduate and how it has helped pave her path to law school. Basketball fan wedded her love of sports to communication Olivia Tanchel has had several internships honing her skills in media relations. And they all led to her current role as an intern with the HEAT Group—a job that she hopes will become a permanent position. Graduating senior’s strong level of involvement developed his voice Through his campus-wide contributions while attending the University, Ishaan Chatterjee discovered his passions, established his community, and found that his voice is a dynamic strength. Graduating senior loves the classroom and helping children Jaclyn Mait, a student in the University of Miami School of Education and Human Development, will begin her graduate studies at the Harvard Graduate School of Education in the fall. Entertainment law is in the future for this graduate Amanda Carballo helped produce an award-winning film during her undergraduate years at the University of Miami. Now she plans to earn a law degree to represent artists in the entertainment industry. University of Miami Visit Us Coral Gables Campus Academics Majors by School or College Apply Now Get Started Give to UM Ways to Give Events 'Canes Calendar topics: Academics People and Community University Commencement Campus University of Miami Visit Us Coral Gables Campus Academics Majors by School or College Apply Now Get Started Give to UM Ways to Give Events 'Canes Calendar University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 University of Miami Coral Gables, FL 33124 305-284-2211 305-284-2211 UM Network About UM UM News and Events Admissions Alumni Association UHealth Hurricane Sports University Hotline UM Culture Tools and Resources Academic Calendar People Search myUM CaneLink Blackboard Workday Employment Visit Campus Map Parking & Transportation Connect social-facebook social-twitter social-youtube social-instagram Copyright: 2022 University of Miami. All Rights Reserved. Emergency Information Privacy Statement & Legal Notices Title IX & Gender Equity Website Feedback