Skip to main content Visit Temple.edu Toggle Utility Menu Visit Apply Alumni TUportal Search Site Search Temple Now Navigation - Go To - News by topic - Arts & Culture - Athletics - Campus News - Community Engagement - Global Temple - Research - Staff & Faculty - Student Success - Sustainability - Return to Campus - Visualize TempleAnnouncementsNewsletters - Temple Now subscriptionPublicationsTemple in the newsSocial MediaSpecial SeriesTemple MagazineAboutAccolades News by topic Announcements Newsletters Special Series About Arts & Culture What to read, listen to and watch to learn more about AAPI communities Athletics Introducing a new head coach of women’s basketball Campus News New General Education course to focus on AAPI identity and experiences Community Engagement President Wingard highlights Center City Business Association’s “Lunch with the City's Leaders” Global Temple Serving the American media from the Far East Research Temple-headquartered STARS Computing Corps receives a $3 million National Science Foundation grant Return to Campus Student community health ambassadors look out for their fellow Owls Staff & Faculty Temple thought leaders lend their voices to national conversation surrounding Roe v. Wade Student Success Temple Made for … building community Sustainability Charles Library earns LEED Gold certification Visualize Temple Charles Library shapes the future at Temple and beyond View Archives Home / Campus Safety Campus Safety Homicides near universities are a crisis that needs immediate action and long-term solutions Type: News Story Temple University President Dr. Jason Wingard discusses how Temple is taking both immediate actions and also seeking long-term solutions when it comes to combating gun violence. April 20, 2022 President Wingard meets with former Philly police commissioner Type: News Story President Wingard meets with former Philadelphia Police Commissioner Charles Ramsey. April 15, 2022 President Wingard explores campus solutions on bike ride through the neighborhood Type: News Story Temple University President Jason Wingard met with local residents last Tuesday afternoon. April 12, 2022 President Wingard meets with city officials Type: News Story President Wingard meets with Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney and Philadelphia Police Commissioner Danielle Outlaw. March 29, 2022 Temple Student Government releases results from Campus Safety Survey Type: News Story Temple Student Government releases Campus Safety Survey results. March 14, 2022 Connecting the dots between gun violence and drug markets Type: News Story A new study offers insights into what drives gun violence around Philadelphia. February 25, 2022 Temple launches RAVE Temple Guardian Type: News Story Temple launches new personal safety mobile app. February 10, 2022 Temple launches new campus safety enhancements Type: News Story Charles H. Ramsey will audit campus safety and a new personal safety app will launch on Feb. 14 January 26, 2022 Discussing safety solutions Type: News Story President Jason Wingard led a discussion with students, parents, landlords and Temple Police to identify ways to enhance safety. December 16, 2021 Be prepared Type: News Story Director of Emergency Management Sarah Powell wants campus to know how to react when the TUsiren sounds next week for a shelter-in-place drill. March 29, 2017 Calling in reinforcements Type: News Story Temple University’s Department of Campus Safety Services recently upgraded its Communications Center. November 21, 2016 Campus Safety K9 receives ballistic vest Type: News Story Thanks to the nonprofit organization Vested Interest in K9s Inc. and a $950 donation from Philadelphia-based Labs with a Heart, Baron, a 3-year-old Belgian malinois who joined Temple’s Department of Campus Safety Services in 2013, has received a ballistic vest. May 28, 2015 Temple University announces extension of police patrol borders Type: News Story Temple University is extending and squaring off its patrol borders for policing to further improve responsiveness to Temple’s off-campus residential student population and community members who live near Main Campus. September 3, 2014 Canine officer keeps Campus Safety Services up to snuff Type: News Story Temple recently welcomed Jarvis, an official canine officer, as the newest edition to its Department of Campus Safety Services. Though Jarvis is a cute, nice dog and a welcome member of the Temple Community, he's ready to work. He is well-trained to sniff out sticky situations and is prepared to help other officers handle day-to-day emergencies and crime. September 24, 2013 Temple Made: Liz Schell Type: News Story When there's a medical emergency on Main Campus, often the first people you'll see providing help on the scene are the bike-mounted student volunteer first responders and EMTs of Temple University Emergency Medical Services. In this week's installment of the student profile series, meet EMT Liz Schell. April 29, 2013 Announcement on campus safety and security Type: Announcement In light of tragic events in Boston, Senior Vice President James Creedon addresses measures university officials are taking to protect the safety of the Temple community, and steps individuals can take to stay safe. April 17, 2013 Safety month programs to help students prepare for on- and off-campus living Type: News Story As part of National Campus Safety Awareness Month in September, university officials from Community Affairs, University Housing, the Office of Sustainability and Student Affairs will promote safety awareness among students through a series of events that includes a neighborhood barbecue, safety workshops and discussions on personal safety on campus and in the community. August 27, 2012 Advisory from Campus Safety Services Type: Announcement September 20, 2011 President’s Task Force to address community and student issues Type: News Story President Ann Weaver Hart has created a task force to address concerns prompted by Temple's growing residential population. The Community and Student Issues and Concerns Task Force will be made up of campus safety, athletics, community relations and housing staff; students; and community members. October 3, 2011 FEMA head stresses personal preparedness Type: News Story About two dozen agencies, including the American Red Cross, the City of Philadelphia’s Office of Emergency Management and the Philadelphia Police Department participated in the event, which was sponsored by the Office of Campus Safety and the Office of Emergency Preparedness. September 28, 2009 Temple University Strategic Marketing & Communications Bell Building 1101 W. Montgomery Avenue Philadelphia, PA 19122 USA Directory Maps and Directions Contact RSS Facebook Twitter Pinterest LinkedIn.com YouTube Flickr TUPortal TUMail Sitemap Accessibility Policies Careers at Temple Temple Now: The official source for Temple news. Copyright 2015, Temple University. All rights reserved.