Skip to main content Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors menu Find: A to Z Index People Directory Search Brown.edu Learn More: About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life Information For: Current Students Faculty Staff Families Alumni Friends & Neighbors Brown University Search form Search About Brown Academics Admission Research Campus Life A to Z Index People Directory News from Brown Katherine Lamb News from Brown Main menu Featured Events News For Journalists Featured Events Search News Main menu Featured Events News For Journalists Featured Events More News and Events The year in stories December 20, 2017 Nelson Center for Entrepreneurship plans for dedicated new home on Thayer Street December 18, 2017 Brown University admits 738 early decision applicants December 14, 2017 Lilli Hornig December 11, 2017 The fall semester in photos — 27 snapshots at Brown December 22, 2017 Tweet Next: Jeannie Le August 5, 2015 Katherine Lamb “I love telling people about what I’m doing this summer.”<br> <a href="https://news.brown.edu/articles/2015/08/summer">Return to the Summer Research story.</a> A summer well spent Katherine Lamb August 5, 2015 Media contact: David Orenstein 401-863-1862 Katherine Lamb’s summer research has been a scholarly adventure that could inspire a book or movie. Working with anthropologist Ian Straughn, she has revealed secrets within a trove of mysterious, centuries-old, handwritten papers from the ancient crossroads city of Timbuktu. A family donated them to Brown last year. “Most of this is magical recipes with talismanic properties,” she said. “A lot of its contents are focused on instructions for how to achieve this talismanic protection or to deliver this spell or practice this divination.” Lamb, a rising senior from Portland, Ore., has learned Arabic at Brown. Before she could begin to translate the manuscript or interpret its cryptic illustrations, she had to figure out what order the pages might have and whether they composed many texts or just one. To do that, she looked not only at the words and their meanings — the unusual script and the author’s quirky handwriting have made that challenging — but also at stains on the pages and patterns of ink drops. What has made many of these intensive examinations and manipulations possible with such precious papers, Lamb said, has been that it’s a digital project. In Brown’s Digital Scholarship Lab Lamb has been able to zoom in on the detailed scans of every page on a high-resolution display wall. Pages can be viewed together for comparison and shuffled around with a few flicks or clicks of a mouse. “This program is Adobe Photoshop Lightroom, which is commonly used by wedding photographers.” she said. “It happens to be really useful for reordering our Timbuktu manuscript.” Lamb, an international relations concentrator with a focus on the Middle East and North Africa, knew she wanted to do research this summer but she didn’t know what that would be until she connected with Straughn. He told her about the recently donated papers. “I was just fascinated by what it looked like and the concept of being able to sit with this pre-modern original Arabic text from Timbuktu, of all places,” she said. Starting in June, they set out understand and interpret it. They have made steady progress. Lamb said many aspects of how she spent this summer will likely stay with her for years: the uniqueness of the experience, the reward of figuring out each mystery, and her first exposure to the digital humanities. What she and Straughn have learned about how to interpret such a manuscript can be shared with other scholars. “I love telling people about what I’m doing this summer,” she said. Return to the Summer Research story. Note to Editors: Editors: Brown University has a fiber link television studio available for domestic and international live and taped interviews, and maintains an ISDN line for radio interviews. For more information, call (401) 863-2476. Brown University Providence, Rhode Island 02912, USA Phone: 401-863-1000 Maps & Directions / Contact Us / Accessibility © 2022 Brown University Connect: Social Media @ Brown Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram iTunes U LinkedIn SnapChat Resources A to Z Index Career Opportunities Make a Gift People Directory Giving to Brown Giving to Brown