Skip to main navigation Skip to main content Skip To Keyboard Navigation Toggle navigation News Center Main navigation Calendar Categories Business and Economic Development Campus and Community Earth and Environment Health and Medicine Science and Technology Society and Culture Media Contacts Experts Guide Featured expert Find an expert Daily Digest Whistle Whistle Whistle archives Whistle classifieds Social Media Subscribe Features Features Features Archive Open Search Search Search Breaking Down the Cap and Gown Breadcrumb Home Features Victor Rogers April 28, 2022 Academic regalia, also known as the “cap and gown,” varies according to the degree conferred and the level of scholarship attained. The bachelor’s gown is a simple robe that covers the entire body. The master’s gown has longer, closed sleeves. The doctoral robe usually is the most elaborate; it is made of velvet, has three stripes on the arms, and includes a hood. For faculty and doctoral robes, the robe itself is usually specific to the university, while the hood trim indicates the academic discipline. In addition, the faculty member wears the robe indicative of his or her highest degree. If the highest degree is an honorary degree, the faculty member has a choice of wearing the robe of the school that conferred the honorary degree, or the one that conferred the highest earned degree. Bachelor’s and master’s candidates wear a square mortarboard. Doctoral students and faculty usually wear a tam. In this feature we look at the details of faculty regalia — explaining why they wear what they wear. Let’s commence! Ángel Cabrera President Ph.D., Cognitive Psychology • Georgia Institute of Technology • School Colors: White and gold Details: 1) The president wears the Institute Medallion, which bears Georgia Tech’s “Progress and Service” motto. The medallion’s chain has the initials of each of Tech’s 12 presidents. 2) The president’s traditional tam is finished off with a gold tassel. 3) Four velvet stripes adorn the sleeves of the president’s gown. The president also has traditional Spanish regalia from his other alma mater, Universidad Politécnica de Madrid, where he received an honorary doctorate in 2018. The regalia has lace-covered sleeves and is worn with white gloves and a white bowtie. Steven W. McLaughlin Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs Ph.D., Electrical Engineering • University of Michigan • School Colors: Blue and maize Details: 1) He wears a six-sided tam with tassel. 2) His hood is blue and maize. Charles Isbell Dean and John P. Imlay Jr. Chair, College of Computing Ph.D., Electrical Engineering and Computer Science • Massachusetts Institute of Technology • School Colors: Steel gray and cardinal Details: 1) The gown is steel gray with cardinal stripes and lapels. Isbell keeps his regalia in his office year-round. 2) He wears a traditional tam. Kaye Husbands Fealing Dean and Ivan Allen Chair, Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts Ph.D., Economics • Harvard University • School Colors: Crimson Details: 1) The crimson gown has black velvet lapels and arm bands. 2) The color of the crow’s-foot lapel emblem represents the school granting the degree. Ellen Bassett Dean and John Portman Chair, College of Design Ph.D., Urban and Regional Planning • University of Wisconsin-Madison • School Colors: Cardinal and white Details: 1) She wears a traditional gown with a tam. 2) Her hood is cardinal and white for Wisconsin, and the sparkly shoes are white and gold for Georgia Tech. 3) She wears a Wisconsin pin and vintage Yellow Jacket earrings. Maryam Alavi Dean, Scheller College of Business Ph.D., Information Systems • The Ohio State University • School colors: Scarlet and gray Details: 1) Her hood is scarlet and gray. 2) She wears a six-sided tam with a gold tassel. Susan Lozier Dean and Betsy Middleton and John Clark Sutherland Chair, College of Sciences Ph.D., Ocean Sciences • University of Washington • School Colors: Purple and gold Details: 1) Her tam is purple velvet with a gold tassel, and her robe is purple with gold accents. 2) Dean Lozier’s initials are stitched inside her gown. Raheem Beyah Dean and Southern Company Chair, College of Engineering Ph.D., Electrical and Computer Engineering • Georgia Institute of Technology • School Colors: White and gold Details: 1) The lapels, sleeve bars, and part of the hood are navy velvet. (2) He wears a navy velvet tam with a gold tassel. Leslie Sharp Dean of Libraries Ph.D., History and Sociology of Technology and Science • Georgia Institute of Technology • School Colors: White and gold Details: 1) She wears a six-sided tam, which is navy velvet with a gold tassel. 2) The lapels, which bear the Institute’s seal, are velvet, as are the sleeve bars. Nelson Baker Dean, Professional Education Ph.D., Civil Engineering • Carnegie Mellon University • School Colors: Carnegie red, black, steel gray, and iron gray Details: 1) He wears a black gown with a traditional mortar board. 2) The Carnegie Mellon University Tartan, first commissioned in 1967 for academic hoods, also serves as an official “color” for the university. Credits Writer: Victor Rogers Photographers: Allison Carter, Rob Felt, Christopher Moore Design: Kristen Bailey, Mark Ziemer Georgia Institute of Technology North Avenue Atlanta, GA 30332 +1 404.894.2000 Campus Map General Directory Employment Emergency Information Legal Legal & Privacy Information Human Trafficking Notice Title IX/Sexual Misconduct Hazing Public Disclosures Accessibility Accountability Accreditation © 2022 Georgia Institute of Technology GT LOGIN Resources Georgia Tech Resources Offices and Departments News Center Campus Calendar Special Events GreenBuzz Institute Communications Visitor Resources Campus Visits Directions to Campus Visitor Parking Information GT visitor Wireless Network Information Georgia Tech Global Learning Center Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center Barnes and Noble at Georgia Tech Ferst Center for the Arts Robert C. Williams Paper Museum Colleges, Instructional Sites and Research Colleges College of Computing College of Design College of Engineering College of Sciences Ivan Allen College of Liberal Art Scheller College of Business Instructional Sites Georgia Tech-Lorraine Georgia Tech-Shenzhen Georgia Tech Online Professional Education The Language Institute Global Footprint Global Engagement Research Georgia Tech Research Institute Research at Georgia Tech Executive Vice President for Research Student and Parent Resources Student Resources Apply BuzzPort Buzzcard Career Center Commencement Library Student Life Student Entrepreneurship Study Abroad Canvas Parent Resources Parent and Family Programs Division of Student Life Scholarships and Financial Aid Employee, Alumni, and Other Resources Employees Administration and Finance Advising and Teaching Faculty Affairs Faculty Hiring Human Resources TechWorks Alumni Alumni Association Alumni Career Services Giving Back to Tech Outreach Startup Companies Economic Development Industry Engagement Institute Relations Professional Education