Skip to main content Columbia University in the City of New York Toggle search Columbia University Columbia News Toggle search Submit keywords Search the site Main navigation expanded Featured News Topics Video Books Podcasts All News Media Resources Awards & Milestones Arts & Humanities Politics & Social Justice Research & Discovery Photo of the Week Commencement 2022 Columbia News You are here: Home Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Columbia faculty, students, and staff are on the cutting edge of advancements in all fields and their work is thus justly awarded and recognized. Below, find recent accomplishments and milestones as well as bi-monthly lists of recent awards. Want your accomplishment to be included? Email [email protected]. Want these announcements in your inbox? Subscribe to Columbia News newsletters. SPOTLIGHT Four Columbians Win Guggenheim Fellowships Columbia’s 2022 Truman Scholars 14 Columbia University Affiliates Awarded Fulbright U.S. Student Grants Recent Awards & Milestones Awards & Milestones Tommy Vaughan Pushes Boundaries of High-Resolution Imaging March 29, 2017 Last year, J. Thomas Vaughan joined Columbia as director of Magnetic Resonance Research, a new University-wide position. Awards & Milestones Zhu Receives Vannevar Bush Faculty Fellowship March 29, 2017 Columbia University chemist Xiaoyang Zhu has been named a Vannevar Bush Faculty Fellow by the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD). Awards & Milestones Native New Yorker Leads the Team Building New Campus March 27, 2017 When faced with planning the next phase of construction on Columbia’s Manhattanville campus, Marcelo Velez sometimes flips open his laptop a Awards & Milestones Columbia University Announces Winner of 2017 Edward M. Kennedy Prize for Drama Inspired by American History February 22, 2017 Columbia University and Ambassador Jean Kennedy Smith are pleased to announce that A 24-Decade History of Popular Music: A Radical Fairy Realne Image Carousel with 3 slides A carousel is a rotating set of images. Use the previous and next buttons to change the displayed slide Slide 1: Jameel Jaffer Slide 2: Alex Abdo Slide 3: Katherine Fallow Jameel Jaffer Alex Abdo Katherine FallowPreviousNext Awards & Milestones The Knight First Amendment Institute Set to Launch 2017 Agenda January 31, 2017 Jameel Jaffer, founding director of the Knight First Amendment Institute at Columbia University, has set the institute’s agenda for i Awards & Milestones Columbia Mathematics Professor Wins New Horizons Prize December 07, 2016 Columbia Mathematics Professor Mohammed Abouzaid has been named a 2017 recipient of the prestigious New Horizons in Mathematics Prize. Awards & Milestones Peter de Menocal Named New Science Dean and Con Ed Professor September 30, 2016 Columbia oceanographer and paleoclimatologist Peter B. From left: Kellie Jones, Sarah Stillman and Claudia Rankine Awards & Milestones Columbia’s Kellie Jones, Sarah Stillman, and Alum Claudia Rankine Receive MacArthur ‘Genius Grants’ September 22, 2016 Kellie Jones, associate professor of Art History and Archaeology, and Sarah Stillman, director of the Global Migration Prog Awards & Milestones Double Discovery Center Dedication May 12, 2016 Awards & Milestones Undergraduate Team Founds Startup With Prize-Winning Ebola Decontamination Solution May 11, 2016 Awards & Milestones 2016 Alumni Medalists May 10, 2016 Awards & Milestones 2016 Honorary Degree Recipients May 10, 2016 Pagination First page« First Previous page‹ Previous Page 3 Page 4 Page 5 Page 6 Current page 7 Page 8 Page 9 Page 10 Page 11 Next pageNext › Last pageLast » Contact Us [email protected] Follow Us Facebook Twitter Instagram Youtube Columbia University ©2022 Columbia University Accessibility Nondiscrimination Careers Built using Columbia Sites Back to Top Close