Skip to main content News Menu Close Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Alumni For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Howling Success: Gillian Torr Helps Keep the Pack Moving facebook twitter linked in email Research and Innovation Research and Innovation The Abstract Audio Abstract Podcast Centennial Campus Partners Results Campus Life Campus Life Academics Athletics Events Students Faculty and Staff Faculty and Staff Awards and Honors HR and Finance Resilient Pack We Are the Wolfpack Service and Community Service and Community Alumni For Media For Media News Releases In the News Experts NC State Experts on Roe v. Wade NC State Supply Chain Experts NC State Experts on Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine Experts on COVID-19 Hurricane Experts TV Studio About NC State News About NC State News Contact Faculty Support Send a Tip Training Program Resilient Pack From churning out mask materials to ensuring the campus food pantry stays safely open, NC State staff and faculty have risen to meet the challenges posed by COVID-19. Here are just a few of their stories. May 11, 2022 A Profitable Pivot When COVID-19 nearly shut down NC State’s compost facility, Matt Ball made the best of the situation — to the tune of $35,000 in cost savings for the university. Recent Stories New Studies Shed Light on Election-Related Stress Wicked Problems, Wolfpack Solutions Focuses on Future of Food Bob Franks Tapped to Lead Applied Ecology Mar 2, 2022 Thriving Together NC State employees share their wellness strategies and tips for surviving — and thriving — during difficult times. Feb 4, 2022 NC State Dining Rallies to Provide Quarantine Meals for Students The recent spike in the omicron variant of Covid-19 set an all-new high for students needing quarantine/isolation meals. Feb 1, 2022 Wolf Xpress Grows to Meet Campus Printing Needs Throughout the pandemic, NC State's print shop has produced everything from floor decals to mask policy signage. Dec 9, 2021 NC State Leads Raleigh Effort to Meet Students’ Basic Needs In response to alarming rates of food and housing insecurity among college students, NC State is joining forces with the city of Raleigh and other area institutions to develop systems-level solutions. The effort is sponsored by the National League of Cities. Nov 24, 2021 VCS: Taking Care of Business and Colleagues Instead of abandoning ship when COVID-19 hit the NC State campus, the DELTA Video Communication Services (VCS) professionals were in the all hands on deck mode of operation. Read more about how systems that were already in place helped them to weather the storm. Sep 16, 2021 DELTA Finance and Business Office Presses on During Tough Times The DELTA Finance and Business Office played a major role in helping DELTA keep working during the COVID-19 pandemic. Sep 9, 2021 Goodnight Explorers Take On Raleigh The Goodnight Scholars Program created Goodnight Explorers last fall to allow students to safely get to know one another, NC State's campus and Raleigh. The program was such a success that it's now part of the Goodnight Scholars Program's regular fall lineup. Aug 26, 2021 Professor Offers Lessons Learned, Advice for Successful In-Person Teaching During Pandemic NC State is back to face-to-face instruction. Professor Marsha Gordon shares what she learned during the first week of classes. Aug 26, 2021 NC State Rises to 4th Place on List of Best Employers NC State's resilient faculty and staff keep their faith in the university's mission, driving the institution up five spots on an annual survey of North Carolina's best places to work. Jun 23, 2021 ‘Far From Normal’ Employees who joined NC State during the COVID-19 pandemic reflect on their unique experiences and share what they most look forward to when the university resumes normal operations. May 13, 2021 Woodson Reflects on Heroes of Pandemic Chancellor Randy Woodson credits the Wolfpack community for persevering through the sacrifices and challenges wrought by the COVID-19 pandemic. Mar 31, 2021 DELTA and DASA Collaborate To Deliver Secure Telehealth Options at NC State A collaboration between DELTA and the Division of Academic and Student Affairs (DASA) addressed the need for secure virtual healthcare options for NC State students during the COVID-19 pandemic. Mar 17, 2021 Top (Air) Quality NC State employees work tirelessly during the COVID-19 pandemic to develop and implement an indoor air quality plan that helps keep students, faculty and staff safe. Mar 16, 2021 Howling Success: Gillian Torr Helps Keep the Pack Moving The Division of Academic and Student Affairs’ newest Howling Success award recipient has played a key role in keeping the Pack active and safe at the new Wellness and Recreation Center during the COVID-19 pandemic. Posts navigation 1 2 … 5 Next Page Home Raleigh, NC 27695 919.515.2011 Subscribe to News Email Submit About NC State News Accessibility Apply Brand Platform Brand Voice and Tone Guide Chancellor’s Annual Report Contact COVID-19 Updates Free Speech Privacy Strategic Plan University Policies Connect With Us Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Instagram YouTube © 2022 NC State University. All rights reserved.