Skip to content University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Apply Giving Clemson News Search Topics OUR Clemson Impact and Innovation Student Success Faculty and Staff Achievements Alumni Accomplishments All Stories Clemson In The News Celebrating the Class of 2022 Colleges College of Agriculture, Forestry and Life Sciences College of Architecture, Arts and Humanities College of Behavioral, Social and Health Sciences College of Education College of Engineering, Computing and Applied Sciences College of Science Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Divisions Office of the President Office of the Provost Advancement Clemson Computing Information Technology External Affairs Finance and Operations Inclusion and Equity Public Service and Agriculture Research Student Affairs Athletics For Journalists Our Experts Clemson.edu Resources University Home Academics Admissions Campus Life Research About Search for: Search Search Clemson News Search for: Search Angeline Close Scheinbaum Dan Duncan Professorship in Sports Marketing – Wilbur O. and Ann Powers College of Business Advertising, Brand Promotion, Consumer Behavior & Psychology, E Commerce, Social Media, Sports Marketing At A Glance Super Bowl Sunday is one of the biggest advertising days of the year and regularly draws one of the largest media audiences of any event – even viewers who aren’t sports fans. The impact of sports marketing, including advertising and sponsorship, is great both economically and culturally. As a marketing faculty member, Angeline Close Scheinbaum is a scholar of consumer behavior and integrated brand promotion with a focus in contexts of sport and e-commerce/social media. She is a widely respected, well-published pacesetter. Her work includes theoretical rigor and industry relevance and is used in many business schools and communication programs. Bio With a background in marketing and experience in sports marketing, Scheinbaum’s research is broadly in consumer behavior with a focus in contexts of sport and e-commerce/social media. Within sport, she measures event sponsorships and their economic impacts, fanbase demographics and behavior, consumer brand perception and the role of event hospitality. She’s worked with sport events sponsored by automotive brands – Ford, Dodge, Volkswagen, Suzuki, Mazda and Lexus. Currently, she is working on the role of alcohol sponsorships in sports – how alcohol is being perceived by underage consumers and to what effect – and consumer gratitude toward sponsors of sport events. Her related stream of consumer behavior research examines online consumer behavior, which entails e-commerce and social media. Her book, “The Dark Side of Social Media: A Consumer Psychology Perspective,” explores many psychology- and social media-related topics, which include cyberbullying, digital over-engagement and drama from a consumer’s viewpoint, and online brand protests, privacy issues and fraud from a brand or organization’s perspective. Currently, she is continuing work on consumer online shopping cart abandonment and online word-of-mouth. Scheinbaum has co-authored numerous articles, book chapters and books. Her co-authored textbook, “Advertising and Integrated Brand Promotion,” was published in 2019 and has been adopted as a textbook in many business schools and communication programs. Before joining Clemson, Scheinbaum was an associate director for research at the Center for Sports Communication & Media at the University of Texas at Austin, where she also served as associate professor in the Stan Richards School of Advertising & Public Relations. Before that, she served as an assistant professor at the University of Nevada Las Vegas and University of North Georgia. While pursuing her degrees, she studied abroad in France and Spain. In between her study abroad programs, she was an intern in the United States House of Representatives. Expand + Photos Quotes I got the idea of researching the role of alcohol sponsorships in sports by being a mom. I’m heavily involved in sports, and my family is too. At many of these events, they’re flashing beer ads all over the screens and so forth, and so I was wondering if and how these marketing exposures were going to have any effect on my children. Want to Talk? Let us know and we'll connect you with an expert. Or email us at news@clemson.edu Your Name Your Email Your Message This form is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. Highlights Sports marketing Advertising and integrated brand promotion/branding Online consumer behavior/consumer psychology (e-commerce, social media) Consumer behavior/consumer psychology Degrees, Institutions Ph.D. business administration, University of Georgia, Terry College of Business M.M.C. mass communication, University of Georgia, Grady College of Journalism & Mass Communication A.B.J. journalism, University of Georgia, Grady College of Journalism & Mass Communication Related Stories Marketing’s Angeline Close Scheinbaum honored by advertising journal Twenty-two new faculty welcomed into College of Business fold Clemson’s fifth annual Out of the Darkness Walk set for Saturday, March 7 Clemson News Clemson News is the go-to source for stories and news about the innovations, research and accomplishments of the Clemson Family. Contact Us Media Resources For Journalists Find an Expert Clemson Publications Clemson World Decipher IDEAS magazine Student Affairs Experience Magazine Orange. The Experience. Clemson TV Policy/Terms of Use Web Accessibility Ethics/Safety Hotline Privacy Policy Copyright © 2022. All Rights Reserved. Clemson University Resources A-Z Index Campus Map CU Safety Directory Webcams Apply to Clemson